THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE HAPPY NEW YEAR! 2 JANUARY Volume XXIII Better Living in 1936! With our new plan for Extra Electricity at Half-Price, the year 1936 will present opportunities for you to modernize your home ELECTRICALLY and add a great deal to the joy of living at very little cost. Electric Service costs so little and does so much! UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Ask your coal dealer about this new dustless stoker slack. BLUE BLAZE COAL COMPANY Salt Lake City FOR 79 YEARS Dinwoodey's have been presenting to its clientele furniture of unexcelled quality and refinement at amazingly low prices. You Always Pay Less at Dinwoodey's ESTABLISHED "GOOD FURNITURE" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Peerless Laundry SNOW WHITE CLOTHES Exclusive Family Service Service Above All SALT LAKE PROVO OGDEN PRICE PAYSON MANTI DESERET MORTUARY CO. CRYSTAL PALALACE Market It is OUR AMBITION To Make Our Three Big Food Markets a Real Credit to When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 1184 East 21st South Salt Lake City and Utah Phone Hy. 2182-2183 We Invite You To Visit Us Often THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XXIII January, 1936 No. 1
CONTENTS
My Prayer....Margaret Evans 1 Greetings.....General Presidency of Relief Society 2 Home Building as an Art.....President David O. McKay 4 Autumn (Prize Poem).....Blanche Kendall McKey 11 "Watchman, What of the Night?".....Melvin J. Ballard 12 A Challenge to Women.....Lorene Pearson 14 Not Bread Alone.....Elsie C. Carroll 18 The Lonely One.....Claire Stewart Boyer 22 Across the Years (Prize Poem).....Beatrice Knowlton Ekman 23 Happenings.....Annie Wells Cannon 24 Do's and Don'ts for Mothers.....Virginia B. Jacobsen 25 To My Mother.....Sadie Ollerton Clark 27 My Foster Child.....Mabel S. Harmer 27 An Awakening.....Mona Wilcox Cannon 28 Prayer for the New Year.....Linnie Parker 30 John Blackmore, M. D.....C. Frank Steele 31 Midnight Snow.....Carlton Culmsee 32 Destiny.....Grace Jacobsen 33 Distant Lights.....Mary Hale Woolsey 39 Mother's Aid.....Ruth McQuarrie Penrose 40 Notes to the Field..... 42 Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest..... 44 Notes From the Field.....Julia A. F. Lund 45 Editorial: Ring in Peace and Fellowship and Love..... 50 The Fundamental Purpose of Our Work Days..... 51 Resolutions..... 51 "Star Dust"..... 52 Congratulations..... 52 To Eliza R. Snow.....Elsie E. Barrett 53 Lesson Department..... 54
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
HOME OF THE DEXTER $3995 OUR NEW SENSATIONAL Saves 1/3 to 1/2 on Coal Bills GRANITE Furniture Co. 1050 EAST 21ST SOUTH, SUGARHOUSE Out of the High Rent District MURRAY—PARK CITY
HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS From Factory To You We Solicit Your Mail Orders
No. 88. Lt. Weight Men's and Ladies' New Style....$.65 No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles..$.85 No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and New Style.... 1.10 Ladies' New Style....$.85 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back 1.45 No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Rayon, Men's and Ladies' New Style Only.... 1.10 No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style, Double Back No. 83. Extra Fine Silk-Rayon Double Combed Yarn. Better Than Part Wool. This Comes in Winter Weight Men's New Style 1.65 No. 86. Extra Fine Rayon and Double Combed Yarn, Ladies' New Style Only.... 1.25 Short Sleeves, Ankle Length—We Mark Garments For 10c
We charge 10% extra for extra sizes. We pay postage anywhere in the United States. Please specify when ordering your bust, trunk and length, whether new or old style. And if men's or ladies'.
14 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
L.D. S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES
No. 68. Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, Old Style 85c—New Style....$.75 No. 500 Super Non-run Rayon Short Sleeves and Knee Length 1.10 No. 74 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Fine Combed Cotton 1.19 No. 73 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton Silk Stripe, Ladies' New Style Only.... 1.25 No. 64 Lt. Med. Wt. Bleached Combed Cotton 1.25 No. 62 Med. Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton 1.65 No. 66 Extra Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton 1.98 No. 82 83 1/3% Wool 3.15 No. 70 10% Wool Silk Stripe 2.25
In ordering garments please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted; also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 10c. An additional charge of 20% will be made on orders for persons weighing 210 pounds or over.
SALT LAKE CITY UTAH
57 Years LDS. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid.
No. 144. Light weight cotton, New Or Old Style....$.85 No. 1118. Med. Hvy., Wool and Cot. Mixed $3.50 No. 38. Spring Needle, Lt. Wt. Cot. New or Old Style.... 1.25 No. 472. Elastic Knit, Light Weight, New Style Only 1.50 No. 206. Fine rib, Med. Weight, New or Old Style.... 1.35 No. 609. Run resist rayon, Ladies New Style Only.... 1.65 No. 405. Run resist rayon, New or Old Style.... 1.35 No. 758. Ecru or White, Med. Heavy Old and Men's New Style... 1.65 No. 464. Rib. Knit, Med. Wt., New Style Only.... 1.00 No. 908. Heavy Weight Cotton Ecru Old or New Style.... 1.95
Established in Utah 45 Years Marking 10c
BARTON & CO. 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Eat These BETTER BREADS for BETTER HEALTH
FISHER'S VITAMIN "D" WHITE & WHOLE WHEAT BREADS FISHER'S RYE • AMERICAN LADY CRACKED WHEAT FRENCH VIENNA SANDWICH BREADS
Products of the American Lady Baking Co.
Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
Castle Gate Coal The favorite for WESTERN HOMES MINED BY Utah Fuel Co.
THE FAMOUS MURAL If you visited the Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago, you will remember the beautiful mural which was the most striking feature of the exhibit. It portrays dramatic episodes of the progress of women in the last 100 years.
The National Council of Women has secured a limited number of pictures of this mural in color mounted ready for hanging. There are 3 plaques each measuring 9¼"x4¾". The price is $2.50 sent post-paid, ten sets $20.00. Order from National Council of Women, 4 Park Avenue, New York, N. Y.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
My Prayer By Margaret Evans
At the beginning of this New Year, Heavenly Father, help me to make my home and those around me happy, knowing that to lose myself in the service of others is the greatest of joys.
Help me to appreciate nature in all her beauty, especially fall with her bounteous harvests and winter with the coming of the Birthday of our Lord.
Help me to always strive against going back to those things that will keep me from the joys of my future eternal life with Christ. The mean, selfish, uncharitable feelings and attitudes and replace them by kindness, friendliness, forbearance and helpfulness.
Help me always to have an understanding of my people and my friends, a rare judgment toward all mankind. Help me to be sincerely thankful for the good thoughts of my friends expressed toward me and the rough places over which they help me. May I be especially thankful that the Gospel gives me a broad vision to allow all men to worship as they wish.
Help me to be faithful and devoted always to the testimony I have of the Gospel, and to work cheerfully at whatever is asked of me.
Give me the opportunity of giving to those who have died without a knowledge of the Gospel, a chance to accept this knowledge, to prepare them for their place of salvation, glory or exaltation in the kingdom God has provided for his sons and daughters.
Help me to develop desirable attitudes, ideals, and appreciation of all worthwhile things, and in my contact with my friends and acquaintances, help me to bring out the hidden good in them, and help them to a more abundant life.
Greetings
At this sacred holiday season, embracing the commemoration of the Savior's birth, and the advent of a New Year, the Presidency and General Board of Relief Society, with goodwill and prayerful interest, extend love and greetings to Relief Society women throughout the world.
Although some of us are separated by long distances of land and sea, and even speak different languages, there is an invisible tie that holds and binds us so closely together in fellowship, love and affection, that it seems almost as if we were near enough to reach out in the distance and clasp hands.
As we look back over the past year's work we are deeply impressed by the progress made. In our health and welfare work our accomplishments have been noteworthy; in our educational work we have excelled beyond expectation; in our religious and spiritual activity we have been inspired, blessed and comforted, and our testimonies strengthened. For all of our success we are deeply indebted to our local workers everywhere, whose untiring labors, sacrificing efforts and unswerving loyalty are primarily responsible for the great accomplishments of the organization.
In our contemplation and in our rejoicing we are also ever mindful of our rich heritage, and of our indebtedness to the workers of other days; and we look back with pride and reverence over the entire history of the organization with all its achievements. We are grateful for the vision, the wisdom and the efforts of the women of the past who laid the foundations and who gave much of their lives and strength to the upbuilding of the Society and to the service of humanity. Down through the years the women of each period have made their respective contributions, and have passed on to their reward, leaving the work to be taken up by those of the next generation. We value their accomplishments and strive always to emulate their good example.
Our hearts are full of gratitude for the hearty and continuous support of the Priesthood, both general and local. Instituted by a Prophet of God, fostered and encouraged by him and by his successors in office, and also by their brethren in the Holy Priesthood, the Relief Society has been greatly blessed. For this we are sincerely appreciative and deeply grateful to our Heavenly Father.
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXIII January, 1936 No. 1
With all these blessings and privileges let us go forward with faith and courage, fortified by an unreserved compliance with the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. Let us use our efforts and our strength to combat all evil, and to help to establish righteousness in the earth as a preparation for the second coming of our Lord and Savior.
LOUISE Y. ROBISON. AMY BROWN LYMAN KATE M. BARKER General Presidency of Relief Society.
Home Building as an Art By President David O. McKay (Address delivered at the Relief Society Conference, Oct. 3, 1935)
Brethren and Sisters: From the reports I have seen and heard of this great conference, I have learned that every session has been well attended, but I had no idea, until I faced this great audience today, that you have had such large numbers. I congratulate the Presidency and members of the General Board upon this manifestation of appreciation on the part of the sisters of the Church of what the General Board is doing.
I shall say a few words this afternoon on home-building as an art, but in so doing I have in mind the effect of that home upon society, and upon the individual in the Church and out of the Church. As we shall see, I look upon the home as the basis from which radiates all good influences, and sometimes, I am sorry to say, bad influences, which affect society.
"What's the happiest time of a woman's life? Is it her schoolgirl days When thoughts and hopes half-formed are rife Amid her glad wild ways? Ah! No, not then. The happiest time is yet to come—but when?
"What's the happiest time of a woman's life? Is it her virgin prime, When love awakes, ere she's a wife? Is it that golden time? Ah! No, not then. A happier time is coming yet—but when?
"What's the happiest time of a woman's life? Is it her wedding day, When vows are pledged, and as a wife She's bound to him for aye? Say, is it then? Ah! No, not yet; the time is coming. When?
"The happiest time of a woman's life; Ah! It has come at last; For, hark! I hear a little voice, And footsteps toddling fast; And the happiest hours, I know, are these, When the children are playing about her knees."* —Frances H. Lee.
These stanzas indicate the phase of home-building to which I invite your attention this afternoon. It is an inspiring sight to look upon this large congregation of women engaged in the noble cause of home-building, and, therefore, nation-building. To this conference you have come from homes in different parts of these Western States, indeed from all parts of the United States. Such homes I have in mind as I speak of Home Building as an Art.
If, in every home in the United States, there were a competent mother and a helpful father, our officers of the law would have much less to do in protecting society from the lawless. I make that statement as a basis from which to consider our theme: for I believe a competent mother in every home is the greatest need of the world today.
At first thought some might object to my using the word art in connection with home-building, but art is defined as "The skilful and systematic arrangement or adaptation of means for the attainment of some end. The practical application of knowledge or natural skill to the attainment of a particular end." It
*Used by permission of "Heart Throbs," Joe Mitchell Chapple, Inc., Boston.
HOME-BUILDING AS AN ART
seems to me that the adaptation of knowledge and skill to the building of a beautiful home is the highest of attainments. In the true sense of the word, therefore, we are justified in speaking of home-building as an art.
There are two synonyms of the word art—one is business and the other profession. In the sense that we shall approach our theme today, home-building is not a business, neither is it a profession, in the ordinary sense of these terms, although to be a good housewife requires the application of true business ability, and to make a house attractive, especially with scanty furniture, and a few rugs, and a scarcity of curtains and drapes is a manifestation of professional skill. However, I use the word art to include something higher, nobler and more elusive than these. By the art of home-building, I mean the inculcating in the lives of children a nobility of soul that leads them instinctively to love the beautiful, the genuine, the virtuous, and as instinctively to turn from the ugly, the spurious, and the vile.
"We need not wealth nor splendor, Wide hall or lordly dome; The good, the true, the tender, These form the wealth of home."
The Home and General Culture: Beaconsfield says that "the best security for civilization is the dwelling, and that upon properly appointed and becoming dwellings depends more than anything else the improvement of mankind. Such dwellings are the nursery of all domestic virtues, and without a becoming home, the exercise of those virtues is impossible."
"In the homes of America," says Holland, "are born the children of America; and from them go out into American life men and women. They go out with the stamp of these homes upon them; and only as these homes are what they should be, will they be what they should be."
The Ayrshire poet years ago said:
"To make a happy fireside clime To weans and wife, That's the true pathos and sublime O' human life."
In the art of home-building there should be manifest the work and skill of two artists, the father and the mother. If these work at cross purposes, the result of their efforts is frequently failure. If they work harmoniously, each supplying what the other needs, as they daily work upon their living creations, the result will likely be boys and girls who will be a credit and an adornment, not a blight or a curse to humanity. Applying the words of Tennyson in this regard:
"These twain, upon the skirts of Time, Sit side by side, full summed in all their powers, Dispensing harvest, sowing the to be, Self-reverent each and reverencing each, Distinct in individualities, But like each other even as those who love!"
Without discounting the worth and influence of the father, it is after all "the mother who makes most." I have said on more than one occasion in tribute to the mother, that the noblest calling in the world is Motherhood, and I wish to stress that because the world is getting away from the old idea of true motherhood, and we are getting away from the importance of the old-fashioned home. Girls of Zion, particularly I would have you repeat this thought, and have it in your minds always, that the noblest calling in the world is motherhood. True motherhood is the most beautiful of all arts, the greatest of all professions. She who can paint a masterpiece, or who can write a book that will influence millions, deserves the admiration and plaudits of mankind; but she who rears successfully a family of healthy, beautiful sons and daughters, whose immortal souls will exert an influence throughout the ages long after paintings shall have faded, and books and statues shall have decayed or have been destroyed, deserves the highest honor that man can give, and the choicest blessings of God. In her high duty and service to humanity in clothing with mortality eternal spirits, she is co-partner with the Creator Himself. Womanhood should be intelligent and pure, because it is the living life-fountain from which flows the stream of humanity.
Choosing the Mother: Oliver Wendell Holmes, referring to the making of a poet, says something about the necessity of beginning a hundred years before he is born. To have a mother artist in the home. It is equally important to look for inherited qualities and tendencies. The mother is influenced by her ancestry. I wish we could have our young men study pedigrees in the human family as they do in their cattle.
I forget the man's name who said: "The first great argument that established a widespread belief in the inheritance of mental traits in man was Galton's famous work on hereditary genius. He showed that greatness and intellectual acumen run in families.
"The Adams family of Massachusetts is a good illustration: John Adams, President of the United States; John Quincy Adams, President of the United States; Charles Francis Adams, Ambassador to Great Britain during the Civil War; Henry Adams, author of books that analyze himself unmercifully and that have set thousands of thoughtful souls wondering why they are here and what they are worth. Environment alone could not produce such a series of able men, nor proper training cause ordinary mortals to achieve what these men achieved."
"We have heard about the famous Jukes family until many of us are tired of it. We have been told how the State of New York has spent upwards of $2,000,000 on this one family. We hear that six hundred or more of the Jukes tribe were living in New York in 1915, but only three were in institutions. We are told that if the original Max and his wife, or his two sons and the five sisters with whom they consorted, had been sterilized, the cost would have been scarcely $250. If they had been segregated for life, the cost would scarcely have risen to $25,000, a pretty saving compared with $2,000,000; and the $2,000,000 does not include the value of the goods which the family stole, the loss inflicted by the family through murders and through the spread of disease, and the cost of the general trail of ruin which they left in their wake. Is the Jukes family unique? Not at all. There are probably many others of the same sort in the United States and in many other countries."
Importance of Preparation in Youth: It is important for young people to realize that intelligent home-building begins with a young man and a young girl in their teens; that often the health of their sons and daughters, if they be blessed with such, depends upon their actions before marriage. From the pulpit and press, and particularly in the home, there should ring the message more frequently that the boys and girls are laying the foundation for their future happiness or misery. Young men particularly must prepare for the great responsibility of fatherhood by keeping themselves physically clean that they may enter into that responsibility as a real man should enter, not as a coward or a deceiver. The young man who in uncleanliness takes upon himself the responsibility of fatherhood is worse than a deceiver. The future happiness of a wife and his children depends upon the young man's life in youth. I congratulate this Church on its ideal with regard to the single standard of chastity among our youth and there is no more important message should be given to the world today than the maintenance of that high standard.
Let us also teach the girls that motherhood is divine, for when we touch the creative part of life we enter into the realm of divinity. It is important, therefore, that young womanhood realize the necessity of keeping their bodies clean and pure, that their children might enter the world unshackled by sin and disease. An unshackled birth, and an inheritance of a noble character are the greatest blessings of childhood. No mother has the right to shatter the life of a babe for what seems in youth to be a pleasant pastime. Those who are to be the mothers of a race should at least give us children who are unhampered, by sickness, blindness or deformities.
Marriage and Career: In speaking of home-building, I would like to give you this afternoon a picture of happiness in married life. So many in this age think that it is burdensome, that mothers are confined too much to the house, and deprived of activity. No mother need be deprived of activity. Your presence here today is an illustration of how mothers can wield influence in social and economic matters. I read recently this beautiful description of married life:
"Every period of human life is wonderful; the irresponsible age of childhood, the thrilling years of adolescence and loverhood; the productive, fighting, burden-bearing era of parenthood; but the most wonderful time of life comes when the father and mother become chums of their grown-up, successful sons and daughters, and can begin to enjoy their children's children.
"Youth is confined with restrictions, limitations, schedules and dominations; adolescence is full of mysteries, longings and defeats; early fatherhood is absorbed in struggles and in the solution of problems; extreme old age is shadowed by eternal mysteries; but middle age and normal old age, if life has been rightly and fully lived, are filled with the thrills, not merely of success, but of companionship with children and grandchildren.
"Every normal individual should complete the full cycle of human life with all its joys and satisfactions in natural order; childhood, adolescence, youth, parenthood, middle age and the age of grandchildren. Each age has satisfactions which can be known only by experience. Ye must be born again and again in order to know the full course of human happiness. When the first baby is born, a mother is born, a father is born, and grandparents are born; only by birth can any of these come into being. Only by the natural cycle of life can the great progressive joys of mankind be reached. Any social system which prevents the individual from pursuing the normal cycle of life, from marrying young, from rearing a family before the age of fifty or so, and from obtaining the deep, peculiar joys of middle life and grandparenthood defeats the divine order of the universe and lays the basis of all sorts of social problems. * * *
"When a new social system—an eugenic system—enables all men and women to start right and pursue this normal course of life, not only will many of our gravest social problems be solved, but old age will lose its terrors. The crowning joys of human experience will come in middle age and onward, through the companionship, love and honor of children and grandchildren."
Broken Homes: "Well," some say, "that is all right in theory, but most homes are not that ideal." The husband is killed in an accident, and the woman is left alone. Misunderstandings arise; the result is a broken home. I grant you that, but I am appealing to you Relief Society women, and mothers all over the land, to influence men, and see to it that when we have such broken homes, we arrange to have the children remain with the mother. Here is a striking illustration of this as a social problem. Unfortunately I cannot give you the name of the place, but this mother's husband has been killed in an accident. She struggled along with the house that was left her the best she could, and finally had to go out to work. Those who visited the case said she could not look after her children properly, and so she sat before the court to hear the assignment of her little children to someone else's custody, and she said, "How much do you have to pay others for caring for my children?' This amounted to fifty dollars a month. "Well," said the mother, '"Can't I have that to take care of my own children?" "No, the law does not enable us to do that." There came into the room, while these proceedings were going on, a man who had just recently signed a bill enabling the State to help just such a mother, but it would not take effect until July of that year, and this was in May. He turned to the court and said, "I will give my check for the support of these little kiddies and their mother between now and the first of July, when the law goes into operation," and this mother went home to continue rearing her children, to keep and make them good citizens in this Republic.
The Child, and Community and Group Influence: But it is not always from broken homes from which the nation receives difficulty, it is from incompetency. Our children go out and come under the influence of society—the press, with its space and headlines of the criminal news; the radio, the automobile, the picture shows and the immense commercialization of recreations, all tending, in a way, to provide for children what the home formerly provided for them, are utterly beyond the control of the home. "One stands aghast at the passivity of much of modern recreation. For these ventures, profit rather than social health must be chiefly the goal, and the organization has lost its local flavor, the body and spirit of the neighborhood association."
Importance of Example: I know of no more potent factor in abating this community influence than the right kind of living in the home—the power of example on the part of parents. If we would teach a child honesty, we must be honest. I am not given much to the belief that it is preaching to the child that influences him—it is the spirit of the home. If we are dealing with the grocer, we deal with him honestly. If the child comes home with the wrong change, we send him back with it. It is living the Gospel of Jesus Christ in the home—we believe in God, and the child feels that we believe in Him. We do not condemn our neighbor in the presence of the child; we do not condemn the Authorities. We are social beings, and we sustain the law, and the child feels that sustaining power.
Home the Birthplace of Obedience to Law or Lawlessness: Then again the child learns this truth, that there is operating in this old world a certain law. There are conditions with which he must comply, and with which he must conform, and against which he must not rebel. Now it is in the home where the child learns that. If you tell the child not to do a thing, and the child does it, and you let him go unrebuked, you are training him to a certain extent, no matter how infinitesimal it may be, in disobedience to law. Mothers and fathers, you are responsible for it.
Another thing which a child should learn in the home is the matter of self-control. Home is the best place in the world for he submerges himself for the good of another; he controls his temper, and that is where father should control his, and mother should control hers, and the child will grow up in an atmosphere of self-mastery. When he gets out into society, and meets with his playmates, he realizes he must give them respect and consideration. When things do not go just to suit him, he must find himself master in the playground as he is in the home. In the home is the place to teach obedience and self-mastery. One of the first fundamental lessons which a child should learn, therefore, is that there are certain laws to which he must be subject. And to which he must conform. The home is the best place in the world to teach the child self-restraint, to give him happiness in self-control, and respect for the rights of others. Unhappiness in the child's life, as in the adult life, springs largely from unconformity to natural and social laws. The home is the best place in which to develop obedience which nature and society will later demand.
Helpful Agencies: In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the home has wonderful allies in the training of childhood and the development of these qualities. Every organization established is an aid to the home, and here we parents can contribute much, not only for the auxiliaries and for Priesthood quorums, but for the development of our own children. There are some parents who think they are conferring a favor upon the Primary, the Mutual, or the Sunday School if they send their children to these auxiliaries. The proper attitude is an appreciation of the results achieved by these fifty thousand men and women, who are contributing their time weekly, some of them almost daily, to help us in the rearing of our children.
Summary: In conclusion I am going to summarize some ideals which we ought to keep in mind in youth particularly, and as adults to inculcate them in the minds of our growing children, which will help to establish, or achieve the art of home-building.
Elements of True Home-building: 1. Let us substitute the present tendency toward a low view of marriage by the lofty view which God gives it. Yesterday I stood at the Altar of the Temple, as I have stood many a time, and saw two hearts—two souls—slipping into one, as two dew drops on the stem of a rose when the sun comes out in the morning, one slipping into the other, the two becoming one. That high view of marriage in the mind of that young bridegroom, and the appreciation of the sacredness of marriage by the bride, I think is one of the sublimest things in all the world. They had the high view of marriage, not a low view of it as a means of gratifying passion. Let us look upon marriage as a sacred obligation and a covenant as possibly an Eternal one.
2. Teach the young of both sexes in the responsibilities and ideals of marriage so that they may realize that marriage involves obligation, and is not an arrangement to be terminated at pleasure. In this regard it is the duty of parents to set an example in the home that children may see and absorb, as it were, the sacredness of family life and the responsibility associated therewith.
3. Instruct young girls in the fundamental arts of housekeeping, so that when responsibilities of wifehood come, they may be free from the difficulties and perplexities which arise from ignorance and inexperience.
4. That marriages be solemnized, as far as possible, in the House of God. This will minimize the evils that follow run-away marriages.
5. Keep religion in home life. We should make it obvious, both by our actions and our conversation, that we are seriously interested in religious things and believe in them ourselves: faith in God, in the divine mission of Jesus Christ, and in the Restoration of the Gospel. Our religion should also take the form of honesty in our dealings with our family, our neighbors, and all with whom we come in contact; of kindness to our employees, or fair play to our employers; and good measure to our customers. "Talk about these intangibles should become as common practice in our homes and offices as talk about golf, parties, and profits if we want to succeed in solving the family problem."
To give young people the right start in life we must discuss with our children and friends questions of motive and subjects like birth, love, marriage, death and destiny. Babson says: ''One of the best things that could happen to America today would be a return to family prayers; the getting together after breakfast or in the evening five or ten minutes for simple family worship! The saying of Grace before meals would be a step in this direction."
I am glad that that practice is general, I hope, throughout the Latter-day Saint homes.
6. Teach the young that the foundations of a happy home are laid before even the bride and bridegroom kneel at the marriage altar.
Sisters and brethren, The responsibility of the Relief Society is to aid the Priesthood in establishing the Kingdom of God, in relieving the suffering and giving succor to the poor, and in many ways to contribute to the peace and happiness of the world. In no one way can these high achievements be better realized than in excelling in the art of home-building. With all my heart I say God bless you, beloved mothers—sisters—as you keep before the public the ideals revealed by our Father in Heaven for the betterment of society, and particularly for the permanence and sacredness of the home. I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
Autumn (Awarded First Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest) By Blanche Kendall McKey
I cannot sing the beauty of this day— My heart pays tribute, but its throb is still. These gorgeous tints are rich but never gay; There is a tearlike mist o'er lake and hill.
Where are the deep-blue smiling eyes of June? Soft air, laden with syringa breath? The witchery of the hushing summer moon? The bursting bud that knows no hint of death?
My heart is longing ever for the green— My heart that rioted with dancing Spring. Ah, Autumn, sorrow brought your regal mien; My solemn soul salutes, but cannot sing.
O little heart, lie still and learn for aye You cannot hold the madness of young May!
"Watchman, What of the Night?" By Elder Melvin J. Ballard Of the Council of the Twelve
"Watchman, what of the night?" This call was often heard in ancient Israel when the people were in doubt and uncertainty concerning tomorrow. It is still on the lips of many anxious people in Israel in these last days. That same inspiration, however, that guided answers to the anxious inquiries of the people is upon the earth again. The Lord has spoken most clearly through His prophets in these the last days concerning today and tomorrow. Everything that has happened in the more than one hundred years of the Church's existence was all clearly foreshadowed by the Prophet Joseph Smith who also under the inspiration of the Lord foreshadowed what is now happening and what will yet come to pass.
Many people wonder if we are on the verge of the loss of civilization and whether history is to repeat itself in the rise and fall of empires and nations as in the past. Every nation in the past began to crumble under the terrific forces of war. War, however is the fruit of the spirit and as long as the spirit of greed and selfishness is in the hearts of men there will continue to be war and bloodshed. Notwithstanding that dark picture, there is the firm assurance that there will come a day when a civilization will be established that will stand forever and never pass away. That day has dawned. That government is among men. The inspired authors of the constitution brought forth a form of government that was to be a benefit to all flesh as a part of that scheme which will endure. The Church of the living God has been re-established for the last time never to be overthrown or left to another people. These two great departments of God's kingdom are not destined to be overthrown. Though there shall be war, out of every conflict will come victory for the right, for the establishment of truth. Every institution that stands in the way of this—God's scheme and purpose—will be shaken to the earth whether it be in the State, or in the Church or in the affairs of men, for this is the hour when everything will be shaken that can be shaken and only the truth will be able to survive. It will be a sad day for autocracy, for wickedness, for tyranny and oppression, but it will be a glorious day for righteousness and truth.
This year 1936 will see many conclusions in the affairs of men marking progress towards the realization of these glorious promises of the Lord that His kingdom is established for the last time among men to be ultimately triumphant and victorious. All the marvelous things that have happened in the last hundred years, showing greater progress in human affairs than all the centuries that have preceded it since Adam's day, are but steps in the Lord's program for the preparation of this world for its golden age, for the coming of its King.
Christianity as it exists in its many forms in the world is being shaken as it never has been in centuries. It has been weighed in the balance and been found wanting. Never since the Lord Jesus Christ more than one hundred years ago said to Joseph Smith in the sacred grove that it had the form of godliness but lacked the power thereof are men more generally sayings it than today. It was utterly helpless to save the world from one of its greatest catastrophes, the great World War. These were Christian nations fighting Christian nations and still that spirit is in the earth. With a mighty Christian nation today waging a most unjust war of greed on a weaker Christian nation it shows that in this great Christian nation the spirit of the Master to love your enemies, to do good to them that despitefully use you, is woefully lacking. This all being true a day has dawned at last for the real Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ established under the Prophet Joseph Smith with all the gifts and power that ever were enjoyed by the Church in former days to demonstrate to a world that is fast losing its faith that there is power in the Gospel of the Son of God to take greed and selfishness out of the hearts of men and make for brotherhood. BEHIND this Church today is one hundred years of demonstration where people have been brought from all nations into communities where they are merged into one, into a brotherhood where love and peace abound. It is a demonstration that will attract the attention of the world. There is power in the Gospel God revealed in this age, if lived by the Latter-day Saints, to make them a light to the world and a hope that shall still inspire men to believe in the mission of the Redeemer as the Prince of Peace and the only one who holds the way to solve human problems, and that is not by arraying class against class, nation against nation, but by establishing brotherhood among men. THE Latter-day Saints are now challenged to rally to their standards and demonstrate in actual, practical living the power of this Gospel to change men's hearts, to establish peace and brotherhood, light and truth among men. While the world is fast abandoning the standards of old, whether they be moral, spiritual, or otherwise, it is a time for Latter-day Saints to adhere to their standards as never before for they are righteous and just. There is everything in reason and in science and in faith to support them as being true and dependable. If we shall adhere to the Lord's program we will distinguish ourselves and attract the attention of right thinking men and women everywhere who will ultimately come to learn of the ways of such a people. There is therefore no need of undue anxiety. If we set our houses in order and subscribe to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as it has been restored in these last days, then we can stand still and see the salvation of God working out in the affairs of men for the accomplishment of His glorious designs. May that day be speeded on and may we and our children and our children's children be found in the ranks of the victorious in that happy time that is to come when the truth and the right shall be victorious and triumphant in the earth. A Challenge to Women By Lorene Pearson EVERYONE is conscious of the economic crisis in relation to incomes; but it is a question how many people realize what deep reverberations there have been in the realm of human lives. Men have had their hands full trying to solve money matters. How many women have looked long and thoughtfully within their special province, the home, to decide what measures must be taken to insure—or recapture—the spiritual integrity of the family? Some have already met the foe, some would like to, some, certainly have not awakened to the peril. In all of us perhaps, there is a little lagging behind the real necessity to action. It has been said that the real spiritual life of a community has its inception at the family fireside. This was true of pioneer days when the chief unit of security lay in the tiny house within the wilderness; and it is no less true today when we sometimes seem to be pioneering in an impenetrable morass. But it was not the hollow shell of the house that defended family unity and spirituality in a hostile land in the early days, it was the intangible thing that might rightly be called the genius of mothers. Everything depended upon the sense of responsibility in the mother and she assumed it with astonishing dependability, else an empire could not have been built upon a desert. IN times as troublous and uncharted as these it seems rational that we might go back and see just what these women did to preserve the home—-the unit upon which all foundations rest—just how they maintained serenity and balance and spiritual integrity through the crises that beset them as surely as the present ones beset us. First, I think, they knew the value of industry of order, of mutual cooperation and they realized that the reward would be a release and flow of gladness and thankfulness in spite of a very difficult world. But most important, I think, they felt the craftsman's responsibility; they felt they must create out of the plastic materials of their families, a beautiful unit in itself, one that could eventually dissolve and reshape into many. More units. And they felt the necessity of passing this intangible quality on to their children. But these women lived in days of stress; there has been a gap, a slackening, a carelessness; now again the days of stress have come and we are looking back to a creative age for help. Women have always come to the front courageously, have learned to handle the difficulty that beset them, have taken over the responsibility of seeing that corroding conflicts between the outer world and the inner do not demoralize their families. But this time they are tremendously handicapped in attacking the problem. The thread from our creative grandmothers to the present has been broken or greatly attenuated. There is a gap. But it can be bridged if we are willing to work, to be industrious, to be alert and if we will realize at the outset that there is a certain retrogression in excessive, time-killing, aimless leisure. A CHALLENGE TO WOMEN 15 PERHAPS it is well to attack the worst at the outset—our new freedom. I cannot help but feel we have misused it. Not that I think women should discard labor saving devices, not at all, but I do think they should re-direct some of their leisure. I could never understand how a game of any kind played idly through the afternoon could possibly compare with the fun of planning, cutting out, and making a dress. Or what is more satisfying than a lovely cake intelligently made from the abstraction of a recipe? A woman who has never experienced pleasure of this type has lost some of her abilities as a woman and has easily let freedom become laziness. I am inclined to think that the trouble traces easily to the fact that women no longer have a feeling for craftsmanship — they don't know how to do things either well or beautifully. The pioneers understood careful workmanship because many of them came from countries where a long apprenticeship for a trade prepared them for whatever they undertook to do in life. America has had little tradition of really fine artisanship and what tradition was developed has now degenerated into a kind of bravado that applauds any man or woman who turns a hand to this or that job without regard to the subsequent slip-shod careless result; but its bearing upon the home of today is even of a more striking consequence. How many young women think it smart to confess they are perfectly helpless with a needle, or even, in some cases, with a canopener. What can the mother of those girls have been thinking about? Well, honestly, she probably wasn't thinking at all and the ease and extravagance of the boom waylaid her, pounced on her new found freedom and the situation I pictured above is now staring us in the face. The mother not only became slack in performing tasks at home but she forgot the art of teaching her girls what little she did know. It seemed easier to shift the burden to the shoulders of the teachers in the schools, a less practical and a less thorough (necessarily so by limitation of time and place) training than could have been given at home. The loss of the sense of real craftsmanship is very great, but greater yet was the loss of a precious bit of companionship and understanding that would have gone hand in hand with the completion of a mutual task. Mother and daughter could have become attached to each other more firmly than either will ever know. It is a part of the spiritual satisfaction of the home that members of the family learn to work together; but it has to be by learning, it is not an attribute that comes with birth. Yet I have heard many mothers say, "Oh, I can't be bothered." Is it any wonder then that one may hear among the young girls such flippant remarks as this: "I'm not so dumb! If I don't know how to clean a chicken or make a dress I'll never have to will I?" That's a rather appalling attitude when we realize that in the long run most women are going to find themselves responsible for a household. She is taking what seems to her the easiest path—the negative one—something like going down hill even though your goal is at the top. And she is not only taking the longest way to gain an end (for herself) but she is missing all the joy of accepting a task and accomplishing it beautifully. Yes, I think cleaning and quartering a chicken may be beautiful if precision and knowledge and craftsmanship born of apprenticeship are applied 16 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to the task. Oh, yes, and a willingness to use good old fashioned elbow grease. But this precludes the easy path and women have tried for a long time to drift along without effort. Yet, I think the real meaning of industry and cooperation in the home must be frankly faced and analyzed. What happened to our old joy of work? The answer is probably simpler and more insidious than is generally realized. We've listened too attentively to the advertisers and their luxury lures. We've been told we were drudges and we believed the man who was after our dollars and little concerned with our innate peace and happiness. We were gullible. We no longer believed that there was anything creative in keeping a home in order with simple tools that we could afford, of making clothes out of materials within our reach, of cooking a good meal with what was available, in short, of keeping house beautifully with what we had. We refused to adapt ourselves to what our lives held, we longed and clamored for more than had been alotted to us. Not that I approve of poverty, not at all, but it is more within the province of a man's life to deal with the problem of provision. The problem of the woman is to do cheerfully and intelligently with what his efforts have been able to achieve. Every living person, no matter what his place in society, has limitation of worldly goods. It is well to recognize one's limits in temporal things and thereby, paradoxically, create a world without limit in spiritual things. This point was not overlooked by our pioneer forebears. But of course there has been the voice of the advertiser to teach us quite another thing; to teach us that a woman, every woman, should have all that her neighbor has, to tell her that a home-made davenport would be laughed at, that a home-made dress never has the chic of one created in a factory. WHEN besides the ballyhoo that we should spend more than we have, we've listened to the purely economic falsehoods that have to do with making things for ourselves. How many times have I been told I couldn't afford to put up my own fruit or make my own dress. Why, my time was worth much more than the few cents more it would cost me to have someone else do the work. Aside from bad effects of destroying our sense of craftsmanship, it has been successfully proven in laboratories (and in my own home as well) that a woman can compete very successfully with most factory made products. And get a nominal wage for her time (after she has become skillful). I've often wondered, parenthetically, how much a woman figured her time was worth while at a matinee or an afternoon party. We must not forget that we live in an age that is money conscious, an age that overshadows other values. So besides the purely practical side to this matter of affording to spend our time at homely tasks there is the other value that must be carefully weighed by every woman. We must decide whether we can afford not to do the things that make a house a home. Do we want to recapture the spiritual qualities that go with the old cooperative industry in the home, supervised, created by a mother? Can we afford not to teach little girls and big girls how to manage on what they have, how to make more of every penny they have by using skill that should be a birthright, how, above all things to learn the spiritual value of industry? CHALLENGE I HAVE heard countless women say that they seemed so useless at home sometimes, that they had the feeling that if they'd just go away things would go on pretty much the same without them. I dare say most women have experienced this subtle warning at some time or other. It is a warning that ought to be listened to very carefully and ought to be heeded if women are to become as genuinely necessary to the home as the bread-winner in the family. But there are reassuring signs that the mothers and some of the daughters too are making real effort to revive the pioneer spirit of flexible adaptation, to make themselves indispensable economically and spiritually within the home. One group of women I know learned to card wool and have made beautiful fluffy quilts as in the days of old; the piecing of coverlets is an indication not precisely of thrift although it may have that implication, but of a revival of industry and the satisfactions it involves; and quilting bees are signs that group gatherings can become something other than the opportunity for idle gossip or other methods of aimless time-killing. And TO WOMEN 17 might I say that some women are discovering that the making of bread —the special woman-rite for untold centuries—has the remarkable quality of putting a woman at peace with the world. These women have rediscovered the basic rhythms of creative living. They have woven their new education of art and music and literature into the woof of homely tasks. "THIS is no commandment to go compeltely back to the past, to do away with labor-saving devices, to be utterly satisfied with a limited income; it is a plea to take stock of the situation, to see whereby you can aid in the re-orientation of this chaos-ridden world, to define for yourself the part you can play in helping your family, and ultimately the community in which you live. It is a challenge to adapt yourself, to re-capture the spirit of the pioneer, to develop an indomitable will to make the most of what lies at hand. We have so infinitely many possibilities that our forefathers were denied, that, surely, out of these we should be able to build up a spiritually satisfying life, an empire within ourselves as they built an empire out of a desert. The GREAT BOOK OF WISDOM IF I may be pardoned a personal reference, my father, as devout a man as ever lived, early impressed upon my youthful mind and heart the value of Solomon's advice. He would call me in from work a little before noon to read and comment on a chapter in Proverbs. I am afraid that I did not always appreciate the priceless wisdom of the book from which he read. But when he died, just after I reached my twentieth year, I recalled his interest in the words of Solomon and read Proverbs through once a month for a year—an easy task, since there are just thirty-one chapters in the book. I so fully share in the high estimate that he placed upon Proverbs that I have lost no opportunity to commend them to young men. The proverbs, like the epigram, is valuable because it says a great deal in a few words. It puts truth in its most effective form because it can be easily remembered. —William Jennings Bryan., Not Bread Alone By Elsie C. Carroll VII SEE what a lot of mail, Mommy," Bonny said as she placed the armful of letters and papers she had brought from the post office on the counter before Linda. "There's one from Jenny Lind and maybe one's from Eddie and I don't know who the others are from." Linda came eagerly. Getting mail was still the big event of the day in Cedar Basin. She sorted it over guickly, placing the papers, magazines and advertisements in one pile, business letters in another, and keeping the personal letters in her hands. She opened the one from Eddie first. She feared she would always have that dread in her heart when a phone rang, or a letter came, or an officer of the law appeared—that something had happened to her boy. It had been three years now since that ordeal which had ended so disastrously his college career for which they had worked and sacrificed so much. Henry and Linda used to ask each other if it would have been better had they not tried to give him the advantages they had thought so important. Or, if knowing his weakness, they should have kept him longer under their own personal guidance, until he might have been stronger to meet the temptations which would always be a part of life. But even though their high hopes for him had crashed, they knew they had done what at the time seemed to them the best. There had been moments, however, when Linda in her anguish had asked herself if they had done wrong to fight so desperately for Eddie's life during those days just after it had been given to them. If he was not going to make something strong and beautiful of it, would it have been better had they let it slip back into the great unknown shadows. But even when such thoughts crept into her mind, her heart banished them. There was so much in him that was strong and beautiful and lovable that she knew she was glad for the blessing of him, even with that flaw in his character. He had a brilliant mind and a lovable disposition. None of the other children made friends so easily as he. People loved him for his smile, and his easy way of adjusting to new situations, and his happy faculty of seeing the humorous side of life. Now, after three years she and Henry were somewhat reconciled to what had happened, and could see - that in all things to some extent, the law of compensation holds. Professor Rawlings, who had come to the jail that night, was Iddie's sociology teacher. He was also a psychologist—and a parent. He was a comfort and a support to Linda and Henry during the terrible days of the trial and conviction. It had been through his influence and advice that Eddie had been paroled to a brother-in-law of the professor, who conducted a trade school for hoys who had made such mistakes. His -theory was that Eddie needed an experience in which he could handle money—much money—under conditions where there would be no opportunity for his taking it. NOT BREAD ALONE 19 Ultimately the boy would develop, he assured the parents, into a financier. The problem was to keep him from being sent to prison where he would associate with criminals and come. Out branded for life and perhaps a real criminal himself. He must have an opportunity to rebuild his self respect, while he was growing strong where he was weak. Consequently, Mel's money had been used to pay the fine and to get Eddie installed in this new school. Now his course was finished, and Linda thrilled with the news his letter contained. He had been offered a position as instructor in the school, and a thing she had dreamed might happen, but had hardly dared hope, he was going to marry the daughter of Professor Rawlings. She read his last paragraph over several times: "Mommy, this is especially for you. I've told you a lot about Grace. In fact I think she has written to you. We are going to be married before I begin my new work here with her uncle, and we're coming to Cedar Basin for our honeymoon." SHE was so happy over Eddie's letter and so excited with plans for his homecoming, that it was sometime before she remembered the rest of the mail. Jenny's letter began, “Dear Ones at Home." All of Jenny's letters started like that, and they all ended, "With love to all from Jenny." Linda sometimes grieved that imagination had been left out of Jenny's make-up. During the first ten years of the child's life, the mother had watched in vain for the spark of creative urge she had been sure must be hidden somewhere within her. She had tried to teach her nursery songs, but Jenny only chanted them in a droll little way all her own. She had tried to teach her to play the piano, but the constant reminders to practice had made the little girl so unhappy, that Linda had finally faced the fact that Jenny was not gifted, and had set about to discover and appreciate other precious qualities to which she had been blind. That, Linda, had often reminded herself, was the first valuable lesson in motherhood ste had at least partially learned—to accept her children as they were given to her and try to help them to be their best selves within their own possibilities, instead of grieving that they were not different, and making them and herself miserable. She had still hoped when Jenny went away: to school that she might find an inspiration that would lead her into one of the arts, and that she would at least make beautiful young friendships, and discover love. But Jenny had done none of these things. She had made friends, of course, but they had been among her teachers, and staid, serious-minded people older than herself. It hurt Linda that Jenny was letting youth with all its glamour and romance, slip by without any desire to catch and hold and enjoy it. Jenny had made only average grades in her high school classes and in her freshman year in college, when Linda had chosen the courses she had taken. But the next year, she had asked to select her own course and had chosen classes in science and mathematics, and had made the honor roll. At the beginning of her junior year she had definitely decided to major in geology, a thing Linda found hard to understand. And now she wrote that she wanted to go West on a geological survey instead of coming home for the summer. Linda had to remind herself again 20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of that lesson she had tried to learn, that parents must recognize the rights of their children to live their own lives. She told herself that perhaps Jenny got the same thrill from reading the past history of the earth in the shapes and colors of stones that she herself did from combinations of sounds and harmonies. "THE third personal letter she-received that day was an acknowledgment that the original composition for the violin submitted in behalf of Richard Bowers in the National Junior Violin Contest had been received and duly entered.' As Linda busied herself in the days that followed preparing for Eddie's homecoming and trying to see how they could manage to help Jenny go on for the Ph.D. She knew the girl coveted, she wished as she had so often wished before that so many of the most desirable things in life were not dependent upon, money. Money might be the root of evil, she frequently mused, but it was also most certainly the root of much good. The bread of life didn't depend upon it so much as those things which were more than bread. She often thought how much the money Mel had put in her lap that day she was hurrying to Eddie had meant in saving her boy's future. No matter how she suffered in the thought of Mel's feelings toward her, she would always have a sense of gratitude to him for that. He had never tried to force his presence upon her since that day, and when they were thrown together she was more often conscious of a tragic despair in his eyes than of the old look she had feared. SHE kept hoping that she and Henry could begin to pay that money 'back. But whenever she mentioned it to Henry, he always said, "Don't worry about it. Didn't Mel say he wanted to do it for Eddie? Let him have the satisfaction of knowing that he really helped someone once. If he's too selfish to marry and assume the responsibility of a family, he ought to help the rest of us. I should think he'd feel pretty small hoarding all that money he got for the land he sold when it belongs to all of us as much as to him." The land situation had caused a bitterness between the brothers that did not lessen as time went on. Mel had sold only part of the land, and had given up his plan to go away, much to Linda's disappointment. He had allowed Effie to fix up the old home, and his mother was inordinately proud of him. The other boys had tried in vain to make her, as well as Mel, see that the oil land had really belonged no more to him than to the rest of them; but it had been useless. She repeatedly wished that 'Pa could know that at least one of his boys was a success. ONE day shortly after Eddie's letter came, Linda said she wished they could build a store. "If we could put up a little place down on the corner of the lot, it would make it handier for people and would give us more room in the house. I would like to have things nice when Eddie comes with his wife. Eddie's wife— can you realize that, Henry? We're getting old." They laughed contentedly. "About the store," he said, 'I've been wishing for years we could do that. If we could build down there and put in a service station, we might make some money. As it is we just go to a lot of trouble to accommodate our neighbors." "Oh, we've done more than that," NOT BREAD ALONE 21 Linda replied defensively. "We've bought at least a few decent things for the house—although goodness knows we need a lot more—and we've kept the children in school. Most of the money for those things have come from the store and the book nook." "And your music lessons," Henry added. "I know it, dear, only too well. I get tired of this eternal grind with so little to show for it. Sometimes I feel that I'm not half a man or I could give you the things that mean so much to you without your having to drudge for them. I suppose it's this raw deal Mel's giving us that makes me sore." "We wouldn't want not to work," Linda told him. “Work's the biggest blessing in the world. But I agree that it would be nice to see a little bigger return for what we do." "I know what we'll do," said Henry after a short pause, "We'll ask Mel to lend us enough to put up the store. He ought at least to do that. He can take a mortgage on it if he wants to and make us pay interest. Even at that it would be worth it." Linda couldn't bear to feel more greatly obligated to Mel than they were already, but she knew any protest she might raise would call for an explanation she couldn't make. The result was that within a week the building was going up. A few days before it was completed, when Linda was beginning to get the stock ready to move, Henry came in, very excited. "Linda, Mel says if you want to fix the house over while you're all torn up with moving—paint it, put on new paper, and get some more furniture, he'll let us have the money." "Oh, no, no," Linda said quickly, rising from a box she was packing. "There's really no need for that." "But you were wishing we could —before Eddie comes, and now's our chance." Linda didn't know what to do. She knew that Henry was surprised at her confusion. She made a few -other weak protests, but finally consented. THE night Eddie came home with his young wife the family were all at Henry's and Linda's for supper. The house looked gay with its fresh decorations and furnishings, and Linda tried not to worry about the circumstances that had made all this splendor possible. Everyone was happy. Eddie, bearing no outward signs of the unfortunate experience he had gone through since he was last home, was the happiest one of the group. He kept the conversation in a light vein and exhibited the best in each member of the family before his bride. Jenny Lind had come home for a few days before leaving for her trip. She was grave, but happy in the reunion. She had idolized Eddie from the time they were babies and his trouble had almost broken her heart. Sometimes Linda wondered how much the shame and suffering Jenny had gone through there at school had kept her from finding her place with the younger set. Grace was charming. Not beautiful, Linda thought, in the ordinary sense of the term. Her mouth was too large and her wide, grey eyes too far apart; but she was fresh and sweet and gracious, and had a subtle charm of personality more precious than beauty. She made each one with whom she talked feel that she had a personal interest in him and what he was saying. But her greatest endearment to Linda was that she adored Eddie. The mother had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a feeling that perhaps a girl like Grace could do the thing to help him she herself had been unable to do. There was no doubt that for him there had never been a girl in the world like Grace. AFTER supper was over and they were going to the living room, Eddie pulled Linda aside and whispered, "Don't you think she's gorgeous, Mom?" "She's even more than you promised us she'd be. I couldn't have done better if I'd gone out and handpicked her myself." That pleased Eddie. He squeezed his mother's arm. "You're some peach yourself. I should think Dad would be as jealous as heck having such a good-looking wife waiting on all the men in town when they come to the store."' IT was a little later in the evening while Richard was playing his own composition written for the violin contest, that Linda was roused from her rapt absorbtion in the music by Thad and Kathie whispering to each other. They sat next to her, with Henry on the other side of them. Mel was across the room. "I should think Mel would stay away if he can't keep from looking at Linda like that." She heard Kathie's words distinctly and she was suddenly quite sure by the way Henry stirred in his chair, that he too had heard. (To be continued) THE LONELY ONE By Claire Stewart Boyer I have been called the Lonely One of Earth Because a wonder sanctified my birth, Because I knew no master but was Lord, That none companioned me or sought my board, That my grave destiny was forged alone, Without the favor of my near and own; I have been called the Lonely One and yet I gave the world a dream it can't forget. In hearts as numerous as stars above I left the essence of eternal love, A part of me I gave to each glad soul That caught the vision and divined the goal; Can one be lonely when he gives away Himself, a light to guide the world alway? ACROSS THE YEARS (Awarded Second Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest) By Beatrice Knowlton Ekman I hear your voice across the years, When Autumn strews her colors wide And flame of maple torch appears Along the wooded mountain side. Though long ago my eyes were dried, I hear your voice across the years And all the garner for my pride Is memory that time endears. When days are drab and nothing cheers, If you within my thoughts abide, I hear your voice across the years And peace folds down at even-tide. To hedge-rows, pheasants run and hide. In stubble fields, the winter nears. With sheltered walls and fire-side I hear your voice across the years, Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon WELCOME the New Year, as it enters like a little child, into a period of the great unknown, with good cheer, with friendly thought, with courage, love and hope. EVALYN WALSH McLEAN, Washington socialite, heiress to millions, has written an enchanting story of her colorful life, called "Father Struck It Rich." It is very real in its Americanism. LADY MENDI, the former Elsie de Wolfe, writer and designer, was pronounced by Paris dressmakers "the world's best dressed woman." She promptly denied the charge and declares, "I only spent between $10,000 and $15,000 on clothes this year." One wonders what the "best dressed woman" spent. MARIAN SPITZER, film executive and author, says she thinks married women inake better business women than single women do. She further asserts, that there are fewer divorces among working married people, than among those where the wife does not work. MARIE SANDOZ received the Atlantic Monthly prize of $5,- 000 for the best non-fiction book in 1935. Her book, "Old Jules" is a biography of her father, a unique personality in a pioneer Nebraska setting. MME. IRENE CURIE JOLIOT, daughter of the late Mme. Curie, discoverer of radium, was awarded, with her husband, Professor Frederic Joliot, the Nobel prize in chemistry for 1935. ETHEL LEGINSKA destroyed the old theory that women cannot write music, when this winter, she produced and conducted her opera "Gale" in the Chicago opera house. It is stated she is the first woman in history to write and conduct an opera in a major opera house. MME. JERITZA, Grace Moore, and other Metropolitan stars are now frequently heard on the radio, thus giving thousands throughout the land the delight of hearing the most wonderful voices in the world, interpret the greatest music. Miss HELEN RICHEY, the nation's original woman co-pilot was forced to resign because she was a woman. Amelia Earhart and other noted women aviators protest this action of the Pilot's union against women pilots. MRS. WALTER C. HURD of Utah, an ardent lover of trees, has been instrumental in helping plant thousands of young trees on the hillsides and waste places of her native state. MISS M. CAREY THOMAS, distinguished educator, died recently. Through 50 years she was connected with Bryn Mawr College, as dean, president and president emeritus. She was also associated with the founding of Johns Hopkins medical school. Do's and Don'ts for Mothers By Virgina B. Jacobsen THIS list of do's and don'ts is given merely as a reminder to mothers of the rules we should observe in training our children. In the complexities of daily living, it is so easy to forget our multitudinous requirements as mothers. Don't nag and scold. Don't beg where you should command. Don't command where you should suggest, Don't place on a child the burden of making decisions in matters which are beyond his understanding. Don't give in to crying for things you have already refused. Don't threaten punishment unless you enforce it. Don't remind a child of past punishments as a warning against misconduct. Face each day anew. Don't let the child feel that you expect him to misbehave; let him understand and feel that you expect the best of him. Don't argue or quarrel with your child, Don't make liars and hypocrites of your children by forcing them to make apologies as evidence of repentane. Don't make profuse apologies to children when you find yourself in the wrong. Simply say: "I am sorry; I made a mistake." Don't punish in anger; wait until you have control of yourself before you attempt to control the child. Don't make unreasonable demands of your child. Don't assume the role of dictator. Don't carry the matter of discipline too far. There must be some elasticity. Don't say DON'T except when necessary. Don't leave it to the school and church to correct faults and build character in your child. Don't assume the attitude that your child can do no wrong. If he is accused of doing something wrong, don't be afraid of finding out the truth. Don't talk too much. Don't give too many commands. Don't gossip before your children. In fact, don't gossip at all. Don't embarrass your child by relating his mistakes before others. Don't spoil your child by telling of his virtues or accomplishments to others. Don't praise your child too much, but praise him enough to build up a desire to do his best. Don't snap at your child when he annoys you. Don't allow yourself to be easily annoyed. Don't interfere too much in the child's play. Don't tell morbid, mysterious, or distressing tales in the presence of your child. And don't forget that in all things you should be a good example to your child. DO'S Be happy! Your happiness and good nature will be reflected in your child. Sing at your work! Your song will teach your child that there is joy in work. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Keep your voice low so that your children will have to listen to what you say. A rasping voice upsets sensitive nerves. Be sympathetic, kind, and understanding in helping your children to solve their problems. Laugh and be gay, your child will love you for it. Enter into their plans and you will have little to fear for their safety.:; Help them to adapt themselves to actual conditions. Help them to learn self-denial. Teach them to think before they speak, Teach them to be considerate of others. Be as courteous and polite to your child as you expect him to be to you. Be consistent in your discipline. Be absolutely truthful and honest in all matters. Be prepared to answer honestly his questions on the facts of life when he comes to you with them. Avoid as far as possible a clash in wills with your child. Rejoice with your child in his joys; sympathize with his sorrows. Teach your children appreciation of nature; the glory of the sunrise, the tranquility of the sunset, the majesty of a storm. Teach them industry and the joy of honest labor. Be willing to acknowledge that you do not know, if you do not, but that you will find out the answer to the question. If you make a mistake, be willing to say so. Your children will respect you for it. Teach your children respect for law, by obeying it in all things. Help them to see the joy of right doing. Remember that your children are individual; that you cannot treat them all alike. Study each child, and help him to develop his natural talents. Make your child love you for yourself and what you are, not just because you are his mother. Teach your children the value of money, not the love of possession, but the benefits of the wise use of it. Remember that the surest way to lose the confidence and love of your child is to laugh at his mistakes or problems. Inspire his confidence so that he will come to you when he needs information, encouragement, or help. Always remember that you have been entrusted with the greatest responsibility in the world, that of helping to develop a noble character and a future parent of the race. TO MY MOTHER (Awarded First Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest) By Sadie Ollerton Clark A child of wind swept skies and sage brush plains, Her earliest scenes were of a virgin sod. The pulse of far off countries in her veins, Yet in a red mud fort she worshipped God. Her tasks were humble, primitive her tools, But in her soul rare beauty had command. And through her love, I have, instead of jewels A piece of knitted'lace made by her hands. How could she, when her days were spent in toil Have fashioned, in such delicate design? Her hands here gleaned the beauty of the soil With lacy cloud and trembling leaf combined. A tear drops on this square of yellowed lace, For through its threads I seem to see her face. MY FOSTER CHILD (Awarded Second Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest) By Mabel S. Harmer Oh, who shall say I do not love thee more Because thou art not of my flesh a part, Or that the tie which binds us is less strong Because thou wert not nurtured 'neath my heart? Gladly would I have borne the pangs of birth; Such are but of the body—'tis the soul That suffers with an unrewarded pain When robbed by bleak frustration of its goal. What though I yearned to give thy life to thee; Fulfillment need not be by this alone— Another bond as tender holds us close; My spirit claims thee for its very own! An Awakening By Mona Wilcox Cannon CuaracTers: Brother and Sister Burns; Sister Moss and Sister Taylor. Settinc: Brother and Sister Burns are seated on the stage which represents the front room of their home. SISTER Burns: (Hears knock at door and answers) Good evening Sister Moss and Sister. Taylor. Come in. (They enter and she shakes hands with them.) SistER Moss: Good evening, Sister Burns. We stopped in to see if you wouldn't come to Relief Society with us. SISTER Burns: That was nice of you, but I thought I wouldn't be going out. (With a look at her husband) It is literary night. Sister Moss And SISTER Taylor: (follow look and say) Good evening, Brother Burns. BROTHER Burns: Evening, Sisters. My wife doesn't read novels. She'd just as well stop at home. SISTER TAYLOR: We notice she usually misses on Literary day. That's why we called for her. They are such wonderful lessons. - SISTER Burns: Do sit down. (All sit). BROTHER Burns: When we want to read, the Bible's good enough for us. Sister Moss: Of course, nothing else equals the Bible. But don't you read anything modern, not the newspapers? BROTHER Burns: (Frowning) That's different. You have to know what's going on in the world. Sister Moss: But that's why we read novels and stories. We want to understand life, what people think, what they do, and why they do it. BROTHER Burns: The Bible tells you about that pretty well. Sister Taylor: But Brother Burns, when Jesus preached, he referred to the customs of his own time, the beautiful shepherd life, the burying of money, the drawing of water from a well. If He were living now, He would understand the life of today. He would preach to rich and poor, communist and capitalist, Saint and Sinner; His religion would be the proper religion for them all, as it has always been, but He would preach in their own language, the speech of today. BROTHER Burns: But what have novels to do with religion? SISTER Moss: Sometimes a great deal, Brother Burns. I have read about people with faith and loyalty, people like ourselves who were struggling against great obstacles, with a wonderful courage—people who were misunderstood. Sometimes when I am through, I feel all cleansed and uplifted, and braver about fighting my own battles. SISTER TAYLOR: Besides, the second great commandment was to love our neighbors. We can't love people if we can't understand them. And literature helps—oh, it helps so much to, understand God's poor children. SISTER Burns: But, Sister Taylor, when I last went they were talking AN AWAKENING 29 about Anna Karennina and Hester Prynne, and they are both evil women. S1sTER Moss: I shouldn't say so. They were both naturally extra good women, but each made a mistake. Hester Prynne became the finest character in her community. And she was very brave, braver than the idolized minister, Arthur. She didn't run away from anything. She stopped right there in her own town and faced it all and went about doing good to her persecutors. She stirs me up and makes me feel like being better myself. Ape Burns: But it does seem dangerous for young girls to read such things. SISTER Taylor: My dear, you can hardly hide the newspapers from them, and newspapers are far more dangerous. Besides, they read the story of Mary Magdalene in the Bible, and she became a beautiful woman because Jesus understood and forgave her. We all need a little of His Divine compassion. SISTER Burns: Then you don't think it might set them a bad example? SISTER Taytor: No! To me those two books are the most powerful sermons against wrong doing. Would any woman willingly go through the sufferings of Anna or Hester? If young people truly understand that sin ALWAYS means suffering, and for many others who love them, as well as for themselves, I think there would be no more sin. BROTHER Burns: Are the lessons still on novels? SISTER Moss: No, we went on to poetry and now— BROTHER Burns: What's the use of poetry? Folks might as well speak things out plain. SISTER Moss: If you don't learn to like poetry here, Brother Burns, what will you do in heaven? How about the Angels' singing? You are going to want to enjoy that, and that will all be in poetry, I mean it wouldn't be a proper Heaven without song. SISTER Burns: That's right, Thomas. (He frowns at her.) S1IsTER Moss: Besides, nothing is so full of poetry as the Bible. BROTHER Burns: The Bible? It don't look like poetry to me. SISTER Moss: No, it isn't written like poetry in the King James edition, though it is in the modern revised versions. Every book in the Bible has a lot of it—the Song of Solomon, Proverbs, Isaiah, Nahum, and there is no finer poetry in all the world's literature than the Psalms. SISTER Burns: I can quote some of the Psalms. Sister Moss: I, too, and I quote them so much better since I know they are poems. BROTHER Burns: I've never noticed that they rhyme. SISTER Moss: Most great poetry doesn't rhyme. Often it's better for that reason. It's free-er. But the Psalms have music and rhythm— and they paint wonderful pictures that you see with your eye, and use rich, musical words that express exaltation of feeling. BROTHER Burns: (Still disapproving) I think the words are too fancy sometimes. They don't have to be like that to tell religion. SISTER Taylor: I think as Sister Moss does. It's like a young girl wearing a lovely frock. It seems right for her. And these words are only a proper dress for the Beautiful thoughts they clothe. 30 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SISTER Burns: I wish I knew as much as you sisters do. I can't talk that way. SISTER Moss: Most of our knowledge came from the Relief Society lessons. It all began there. SISTER TAYLOR: The poets discover all the beauty in life, and when we read them, we begin to see it too. SISTER Burns: But you're all through with poetry now? SISTER Taytor: Yes, we are studying biography now, the art of writing lives, not being dishonest and telling all the virtues about a person and denying his faults, nor telling all his faults and denying his virtues, but being honest, making a person really live, so that we understand his trials and his struggles, and really know his heart and soul. SISTER Burns: What do you study tonight? SISTER TAYLOR: Queen Victoria, and "Dear Albert." SISTER Burns: I've always wanted to know more about Queen Victoria. S1stER Moss: Then come along, for Lytton Strachey is the man to tell you. He is full of understanding, and when you get home you'll know the little Queen better than did her ladies-in-waiting. S1sTeR Burns: (Turning to husband) You have a meeting of your own. Don't you, Thomas? BROTHER Burns: What's the odds? Go along if you like. SISTER Burns: I'd love to go, Sisters. I've never attended a Court. (Puts on hat and all leave stage.) CURTAIN PRAYER FOR THE NEW YEAR By Linnie Parker 'Tis midnight, and the whistles blow, The New Year comes—the Old must go— He moves with measured step and slow Into the past; I watch him go and breathe a pray'r That this New Year might be as fair— As filled with joy—as free from care As was the last; That my mistakes in last year's tries Might make me just a bit more wise— Be stepping-stones to help me rise In this New Year; That all mistakes that others made Might leave within my heart no shade Of malice—may I let them fade— With the Old Year! John Blackmore, M. P. By C. Frank Steele IS name is Blackmore—John H. Blackmore—and he was born in the famous potato state of Idaho. Sublett was his birth-place, but no one ever dreamed more than 40 years ago that their little settlement would give to the Parliament of Canada its first "Mormon" member. Yet it has for that honor has come to Mr. Blackmore. In the last general election in the dominion of Canada, Mr. Blackmore was elected in the federal constituency of Lethbridge, defeating four other strong candidates including Brigadier-General J. S. Stewart, veteran parliamentarian and Great War veteran. The young Latter-day Saint campaigner, nominated by the new Social Credit party which earlier in the year was swept into power in Alberta, won comfortably over all his opponents and thus will be the first member of the "Mormon" church to win a seat in any national parliament in the British Empire. This is no mean distinction, as the friends of Mr. Blackmore realize. But that is not all. Other honors awaited the Raymond school teacher and church worker, father of nine growing children and son of an English immigrant to Utah and Idaho in the early years of the expansion of the church. When it was learned that 17 members representing the new "Banish Poverty" party has been elected in Alberta and Saskatchewan, a caucus was called. And the unanimous choice for their party leader in the House of Commons at Ottawa was the Lethbridge member—''Johnny" Blackmore. Now while all this political history was being written around her son in Alberta, a little "Mormon" mother, typical of those strong, God-fearing pioneer women who have played such a large part in the "Winning of the West," was visiting a married daughter in Moab, Utah. She was mighty proud, of course, of her son's achievements even though a bit bewildered by it all. Perhaps it fulfilled her dreams for her son for, as Mr. Blackmore says, "It was my mother who gave me my start. I had an accident when I was a small child that left me a cripple. I was ten before I attended school yet long before that mother taught me to read and write, gave me a love of literature and art and music and a faith in God that have been a source of strength and confidence all through my life. Mother worked hard and uncomplainingly during those early days of pioneering in Canada and she taught her children the lessons of thrift, of patience, of devotion to duty. She always taught us to work faithfully at our tasks without thought of reward. Cherish virtue, was another of her teachings. In such an environment I was raised and now looking back I realize what all this homely guidance has meant in my life," said the town schoolmaster who overnight became a celebrity in the political life of Uncle Sam's northern neighbor. Mr. Blackmore was raised in the Cardston district going through the public and high schools and then to the University of Alberta. He received his B. A. Degree from Alberta majoring in education. He entered the teaching profession making a 32 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE marked success in the field. Early in the life of the new Canadian party he came out as a strong advocate and being an able platform man, a close student of economics and public affairs and possessing a friendly personality he quickly rose to a position of prominence. He married Miss Emily Woolley, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Leo Woolley of Raymond, and formerly of Utah, and they have nine children, four sons and five daughters. When Mr. Blackmore goes to Ottawa he will meet Miss Agnes Macphail, distinguished member of the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and an outstanding Canadian woman. Miss Macphail was the first woman elected to the Canadian parliament. That she has been a success in the eyes of her constituents is revealed by the fact she is now entering on her 15th year in the house. She is an able and challenging speaker, witty in debate and possesses a clear, flexible mind. Her unfailing humor has helped her greatly during her long public career. Miss Macphail has often spoken in the United States and was the first woman representative from Canada to the Assembly of the League of Nations at Geneva. She served with distinction on the Disarmament Committee of the League. Prison reform in the past few years has found in. Miss Macphail an outspoken champion. It is a singular coincidence that these two members of a similar faith, one living in the east, the other in the west, should be neighbors in parliament. But destiny plays some strange and unexpected tricks. Both have pronounced leanings to the cause of the common man and to that humanitarian outlook seeking better world understanding and a lasting peace based on Christian principles. MIDNIGHT SNOW By Carlton Culmsee Like a parent tip-toeing about breathlessly, Erecting a glittering miracle of tinsel, The storm is coating all the dingy roofs And dead gray ground with snow. The smoke from the chimneys dwindles, Grows thin, becoming at last only a faint breath Of warmer air from coals pulsing in gray ashes. Stoves and furnaces creak softly as they contract. People are sleeping soundly in the relief That comes when the elements have ceased contention And have decided what to do. And the snow deepens with infinite care and quiet, Preparing the glee of snowballs and coasting hills for the children. A promise of summer moisture for the farmers, And a cleanly beauty that enriches all When they first look out at the snow that came by surprise, Destiny By Grace Jacobsen A Pageant in Three Scenes Scene I. The Origin of Woman. Scene II. The Mission of Woman. Scene III. The Destiny of Woman. PROLOGUE Some sacred music creating an atmosphere of loneliness and uncertainty. Stage Setting: The stage is arranged to depict a rugged earth scene, or a dreary world. If desired, a green tree, a wild flower, may relieve the barrenness. A rustic bench stands in the right corner partly concealed by vines and wild growth. As the curtain is drawn a lady dressed in pale lavender, or orchid robe enters (left) and wanders over the stage in a bewildered confused attitude. (Reader stands in right front of stage, and proceeds.) "Lady, whence comest thou to this desolate earth region? Perhaps thou art returned from traveling in a far country, and hast forgotten thy home so changed since thy going, or is it a land unknown to thee for thou art troubled. Afraid and uncertain of thy foot-steps." Her Answer (Duet): "I'm a pilgrim and I'm a stranger." (L. D. S. Hymn Book, page 414.) Reader: "Yes, truly thou art a pilgrim and a stranger, wandering in an unknown land, but not aimlessly, nor without purpose. Listen, gentle lady, and I will tell thee whence thy coming, why thy coming, whither thou art going. All these stages of thine existence are gloroius in the plan of thy Heavenly Father, and designed for thine exaltation in His kingdom. The memory of thy yesterdays are obscured from thy recollection, but through revelation from on high, given in these latter days, a knowledge of thy former state has been made known. (Quartet) First three years of O, My Father." Reader: "In counsel the Gods were assembled The universe listened and trembled; For out of the atoms of infinite space, A terrestrial new world was to roll into place To fashion for mana mortal probation, Surrounded by matter of temporal creation. There to take on a body of flesh and bone, Uniting the eternal spirit as one. Their mission completed, salvation won A plan of redemption was now made known. Then Satan in his pride, laid bare His evil mandate to ensnare The souls of men by force of skill, 34 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE And hold them captive to his will. The glory mine, the throne of light I claim for recompense, the right To rule and reign by might divine, And count the power of godship mine. A murmur then of discontent, Resounded through the firmament, Then heaven's gate was opened. Wide And through its portals side by side Went Satan and his hosts who fell, With him to outer darkness—hell." _ Music, (Loud thundering chords from the organ, bass horn, cello or other instrument representing the expulsion." Reader resumes: "Then Jesus spake, 'send me, I go, I wish to do thy will to know, Sustain me Father, help me through; That I may to the trust prove true.' His offer pleased the gracious Lord, And was accepted at his word. Then loud Hosannahs rent the air, And you, fair lady, you were there, And raised your voice amid the throng, In poem of celestial song. Rejoicing for the hour of birth, Upon the new created earth. And joined the ever flowing tide That people of God's dominions wide. Though rugged vale and mountain wall Made thus by Adam's tragic fall, They'll be redeemed in His own way, Hold fast thy faith until that day." (Curtain) Scene II Home Interior (Curtain rises. Young man enters right stage, young lady enters left. They meet in center stage in lovers' happy greeting.) (Reader: Genesis 1-27): "And the Lord created man in His own image, male and female created He them and God blessed them, and said unto them, be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fishes of the sea and over the fowls of the air and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth. Behold, I have given unto you every herb bearing seed which is upon the face of the earth and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat. "There are gifts from thy Father's hand, use them with joy and thanksgiving, rendering unto Him thine gratitude at all times. Pray DESTINY 35 always, and walk uprightly before Him, seeking to know His will and keep His commandments continually." (The couple may now be seated on couch near floor lamps in the attitude of planning their coming wedding, etc.) Reader continues: "Having reached the age of maturity it is thy duty to enter into the bonds of wedlock, for marriage is ordained of God that thou mayest reach the highest perfection, and that God's purposes might be fulfilled and that the earth might answer the end of its creation, and all things he consummated for the glory of thy Maker. "Having thus embarked in God's appointed way by the power of his holy priesthood, now given to the earth anew, go forth to this appointed mission. Cleave unto each other. Keep thy vows sacred, falter not in the day of trial that must come to thee to try thy strength and prepare thee for greater things to come. Then the smiles of heaven will be about thee, and sustain thee in all the walks of thy earthly journey. The earth will yield up her treasures for thy needs and comfort. The dream of thy youth will find their fulfillment in the joys of the little kingdom thou shalt found, called home." The couple rise, and he fondly takes his leave to the left, the lady arranges some books, linen. Or fancy work, makes a list of articles for the new home, while reader continues. ) "Having entered the sacred portal of marriage it now becomes thy duty to make a home, preferably in the land of thy fathers and establish it upon the rocks of faith and humility, acknowledging the giver of all in thy stewardship.. "The home is the strength of the nation, the foundation of all organized society, the bulwark of civilization, sobriety and progress. Children are secure in good homes where they may rest in comfort and contentment for upon this great and sacred institution depends the endurance and perpetuity of the future house of character that thou shalt be privileged to shape. The law of order, cleanliness, thrift, art, and cooperation, should be an established virtue, for the happiness and well being of all who dwell therein. "The physical, intellectual, and spiritual destiny of thy subjects are in thy keeping. Herein lies thy chief appointment. Here thou shalt be the examplar, the teacher, the ever burning flame of inspiration, and the undying embodiment of love." Scene III Home (The curtain rises showing father, mother, children—4 or 5 in number—in the home at evening. The home is well lighted and furnished in modern style. A well filled book case, magazines, etc., are prominent in the furnishing. The father is making out reports, the mother is showing the children pictures and hand craft of other nations. ) Reader: "The days of thy youth, having been spent in the acquisition of knowledge of things as they were, as they are, and as they are to be, having enlarged thy capacity for its intelligent application, it now 36 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE becomes thy duty to impart that information to thy household and associates, that they may assist in the spread of truth for the blessing of mankind. Gather from the fields of art, literature, and science, the treasures of the ages, as far as thou art able, that refinement and culture map pervade the home, and appreciation of the world's work foster the spirit of gratitude and the brotherhood of man continually. (Father and mother lay aside their intellectual pursuits. Father takes Book of Mormon and reads. Mother takes Bible stories and gathers children around her, holds book in the attitude of reading, or a quartet may sing. "I think when I read the sweet story of old, when Jesus was here among men.'") (At last strain mother rises, lays aside book and gets night dresses and prepares children for bed.) Reader continues: Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 68. (Reads slowly): "And they shall teach their children to pray and walk uprightly before the Lord. Teach them faith in God and the mission of His son, Jesus, the Savior of the world. The doctrine of repentance, and baptism, obedience, reverence for things sacred, and the proper observance of the Sabbath day. Loyalty and love of right order and respect for law in all the avenues of life both religious and civil. Tenderness, charity, and love of fellow men in all the world that from the fireside may go forth the future citizens and rulers prepared to carry on the world's work in righteousness, that the earth may cease its mourning and receive the glory that awaits it because of the well doing of its inhabitants." How great is thy responsibility, lady. Thy power is greater than rulers or potentates, and reaches far beyond the boundaries of this world into the realm of eternity. Wilt thou wear the crown now waiting to adorn thee? (A quartet, duet, or solo sings "Home Sweet Home") Curtain. (Curtain rises showing an old gray haired lady, thin and worn looking, seated in a rocking chair in a moderately comfortable furnished home, alone, and turning the leaves of the family Bible as the reader continues. ) "The hand of time has turned the chapters of life all too quickly. The years have sped on, the morning and noonday of life have passed, and the twilight thou canst not stay now gathers to enfold thee in its sweet embrace and now the lines of the poet clutch thy heart with deep and poignant meaning, "Backward, turn backward, O time in your flight. Make me a child again, Just for tonight." Thy wish is granted (Lady closes the book and lays it on table, lays back in the chair with folded hands as if in sleep. The floor lamp is dimmed at the following lines): The evening shades are falling, And her life work now is done. And she hears again the children, And she names them one by one. Longing fills her heart unceasing Could she once again enfold, Each loved form in fond caresses, As she did in days of old. There is just the ache of loneliness, For the joys that now have flown. And the past with al! Its offering, Can never more be known. It is God's will, lift up thy heart. Thy mission is complete And in his loving care repose, Thyself in resignation sweet. (Lady rouses, still sitting she wipes a tear, then raises her head and smiles as if satisfied with the inevitable. ) Reader continues: "Lady, thy life has been wonderful, thou hast accepted the gift of thy father as the pearl of great price, and magnified with the fabric of daily life. Thy course has been charted according to His word, and the promised reward is now at hand. It is the greatest gift of eternal life, where thou shalt reign in thy father's house with thy companion, and people other worlds even as thou hast peopled this world, united with thy loved ones for all eternity. His unfailing love will sustain thee now and thy petitions be heard and answered." (Lady rises now and rather feebly totters as if faint and uncertain clutches the chair, desk, or other piece of furniture, while the reader continues): The way is dark, my Father. Cloud on cloud Is gathering thickly o'er my head, and loud The thunders roar above me. See I stand Like one bewildered! Father, take my hand, And through the gloom Lead safely home Thy child. (Looks out of window, raises blinds or curtain): The day goes fast, my Father, and the night Is drawing darkly down. My dimming sight Sees ghostly visions—fears, a spectral band Encompass me. O, Father, take my hand, And from the night Lead up to light Thy child. (Goes toward chair): The way is long, my Father, and my soul Longs for the rest and quiet of the goal, While yet I journey through this weary land, Keep me from wandering. Father, take my hand DESTINY 37 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Quickly and straight Lead to Heaven's gate Thy child. (Sits): The path is rough, my Father, many a thorn Has pierced me; and my weary feet, all torn And bleeding, mark the way. Yet thy command Bids me press forward. Father, take my hand. Then safe and blest, Lead up to rest, Thy child. The throng is great, my Father. Many a doubt And fear and danger compass me about, And foes oppress me sore. I cannot stand Or goal one. O, Father, take my hand, And through the throng Lead safe along Thy child. My cross is heavy, Father. I have borne It long, and still do bear it. Let my worn And fainting spirit rise to that blest land Where crowns are given. Father, take my hand, And reaching down Lead to the crown Thy child. (Reader):; The Gracious Answer The way is dark my child, but it leads to light I would not always have thee walk by sight; My dealings now thou canst not understand. I meant it so; but I will take thy hand, And through the gloom Lead safely home, My child. The day goes fast, my child. But is the night Darker to thee than day? In me is light! Keep close to me, and every spectral band Of fears shall vanish. I will take thy hand. And through the night Lead up to light, My child. The way is long my child. But it shall be Not one step longer than is best for thee; And thou shalt know, at last, when thou dost stand Safe on the goal, how I did take thy hand, DESTINY 39 And quick and straight Lead to heaven's gate, My child. The path is rough, my child. But oh! How sweet Will be the rest, for weary pilgrims meet, When thou shalt reach the borders of that land To which I lead thee, as I take thy hand, And safe and blest With me shall rest, My child. The throng is great, my child. But at thy side Thy Father walks; then be not terrified, For I am with thee—will thy foes command To let thee freely pass; will take thy hand, And through the throng Lead safe along, My child. The cross is heavy, child, yet there was One Who bore a heavier for thee—my Son. My well beloved. For Him bear thine, and stand With Him at last; and from thy Father's hand, Thy cross laid down, Receive a crown, My child. (The lady by this time is reclining far back in her chair, eyes closed. Two small children dressed in white enter L. & R. And smooth back her gray hair and put a crown on her head. A strain of soft music is heard and the curtain closes.) DISTANT LIGHTS By Mary Hale Woolsey As night comes down vale, And drops a darkening robe of gray And hid from view way What matter that the way seem dark More safe and clear. From this far hill? This thought keep I, within my heart: That there will be Always, though dimmed by fog and storm, A light ahead for me. Here linger I, upon a hill, To cover vale and town. For these I watch: the friendly lights That one by one appear To make the travelers' homeward Last night, a storm swept o'er the All lights except the ones close by. Yet all the time I knew That all along the distant roads The lights were shining still! Mother's Aid By Ruth McQuarrie Penrose Director Mothers' Aid, Salt Lake County THE welfare of children is the basic objective of all social legislation. However, until recent years, laws pertaining especially to children provided only for institutional care and correction of the homeless and delinquent child. Very little attention was given to the preventive field until the public became aware of some of the causes of the ever-increasing evils of dependency and delinquency. Efforts were made to discover ways and means to meet the situation. Juvenile Courts, Mother's Congress, Hull House and other interested groups made extensive investigations. It was found that many widowed mothers left with young children and no means of support were often obliged to leave their families unsupervised to go out and earn a meager living. These mothers resided in crowded and undesirable districts where rent was cheap. Wages to unskilled workers were inadequate. This losing economic battle resulted in broken health, and often in the death of such mothers. These situations accounted in a measure for the ever increasing number of dependent children. IN 1909, President Theodore Roosevelt called the first White House Conference on the care of the dependent child. The outgrowth of this first conference was that Mothers' Assistance laws were enacted in many states, and the United States Children's Bureau was established. The assembled delegates at that first conference concluded that the welfare of a state depends upon the quality of its citizens; and that "homemade" children cared for by their own mothers have a better chance to become healthy normal citizens. Home life being the finest product of civilization, it thereby becomes the duty of the state to conserve the home as its most valuable asset whenever factors other than the improper guardianship of the parent threaten its destruction. Aid for children in their own homes is not only a welfare measure but an economic one also, as it has been proven that it is actually cheaper in dollars and cents to maintain children in their own homes than to support them in institutions. Similar conferences have been called every ten years by the President of the United States. In 1919, President Woodrow Wilson called the second White House Conference which resulted in expanding and improving mothers' assistance laws throughout the country. In 1929, President Herbert Hoover called the third conference, known as the "White House Conference on Child Health and Protection" which convened in 1930. "The Children's Charter' came out of this third conference, also "findings" and "recommendation" which were widely studied. This conference together with the subsequent economic depression spurred greater action in the preventive field and more far reaching aid for the nation's children. MOTHERS' AID 41 MOTHERS' AID IN UTAH UBLIC Support of Dependent Widowed Mothers, commonly known as the "Widow's Pension Law" was passed by the Utah State Legislature in 1913. At first the Juvenile Court administered this law; later the responsibility of administration was transferred to the Board of County Commissioners. This law has been amended several times. In 1933 it was made definitely a Mothers' Aid Law. The definition of "widow" was changed from ''widowed by death" to a Mother who has been left with young children and no means of support regardless of the cause. If the father be dead, has deserted, been divorced or is incapacitated to earn a living, and is in a mental, physical or penal institution, the mother is eligible for this aid to support her young children. The Mother's Aid Law is classed with the child welfare group of laws and is in the preventive field—aiming to prevent children, thus aided, from becoming delinquent by keeping the mother at home with her children while they are very young. The Social Security Act in Title Four is extending and strengthening the aid to dependent children in every state and will, when a state qualifies for such aid, take the place of the mothers' aid law and will be termed "Aid to dependent children." "PUBLIC AID TO DEPENDENT CHILDREN" Title Four of the Social Security Act authorizes federal financial assistance to States for care of their needy dependent children. A state, in order to qualify for such federal aid must submit a plan of child-care to be approved by the National Social Security Board. Any plan to be approved must: 1. Be state-wide. 2. Provide for financial participation by the State and County. 3. Provide for state administration or supervision of administration. 4. Provide for a fair hearing before the State Board if a claim ls denied to an applicant. 5. If there be one child in the family, the allowance for such child shall not exceed $18.00 per month. If there be more than one child the allowance shall not exceed $12.00 for such other dependent child or children. 6. The County Welfare Board will report to the State Board of Public Welfare. The State Welfare Board will report to the Federal Social Security Board. 7. The term "dependent child" means a child under the age of sixteen who has been deprived of parental support by death, desertion, divorce, physical or mental incapacity of a parent, and is living with his father, mother, grandparent, brother, sister, stepfather, stepmother, stepbrother, stepsister, uncle or aunt, in a place of residence maintained by one or more such relatives as his home. 8. The term "aid to dependent children" means money payments with respect to a dependent child or dependent children. Notes to the Field TEN MINUTES—THEY'RE YOURS By Ida Peterson Beal About six years ago at the Mc Cune School of Music one of the first departmental meetings of the Choristers and Organists was held. It was most gratifying to see the large number present, and their manifest. Interest and enthusiasm in the problem of improving the singing in the Relief Society. Many choristers gave helpful suggestions as to how they had met the need long felt by them for this training. Their principal complaint at this meeting was that heretofore, there had been no time given to the choristers for practice, and no special recognition of their duties. They spoke in apologetical terms of their calling, and seemed to have very little faith in their own abilities. Such a condition, and frame of mind, was not helpful to them. How could they under such conditions be stimulated to do the fine constructive work they were capable of doing? Time, in the meetings of the Relief Society, should be set aside for the use of the choristers. Ten minutes in each meeting for practice was all they asked for. Upon knowledge of this request, the General Board of the Relief Society very readily gave consent, and ten minutes were given to the choristers and organists in the regular meetings, except the first Tuesday. The presidents of the Wards were urged to give this period of the meeting to the choristers. They in turn were to use it and to demonstrate what they said they could do in the Field building up better singing in the different Wards. Now then the question is, What are you doing with these ten minutes? The president of the Ward expects you to use the time profitably. Here are some suggestions: Always have something definite and purposeful in mind, also the technique you would use to arouse enthusiasm and interest in good singing. Be well prepared. Be enthusiastic. Have your hymns selected for the practice. Give a brief talk on the hymn, its background and purpose, marks of expression, tempo, and any other features you wish to emphasize. Urge the Sisters to learn the words as they convey the message. Go forward with your practice, use your baton, and have a spirited, enthusiastic rehearsal. New hymns can be learned and the old ones improved through a better understanding and an appreciation of them. This period will lend itself to the development of fine hymn singing which is such an important factor in all our meetings. For convenience and comfort during this period, it is suggested that the Sisters remain seated. You asked for these ten minutes —now use them profitably. Development of choruses will be discussed in a later article. It is your privilege to lead in an awakened appreciation of good music and its wonderful contribution in all of our services. Make the members feel that they are individually important and that their contribution musically is needed in each meeting. Guide them to the understanding that without practice there can be no NOTES TO interest and without interest there can be no progress." These ten precious minutes are yours! Use them well. RELIEF SOCIETY HOME READING PROJECT OTHING has ever been suggested by the General Board which has met with a more general response than the Home Reading Project, with the Scriptures as the text. The vast amount of material presented in the first plan was not fully grasped until it was fairly undertaken. With the realization of this fact, it was decided to recommend the Old Testanient for the first year. This was not time enough to make a thorough study of the rich material, and a request was made from so many Relief Society organizations that another year be allowed for this. Yielding to the will of the majority, the General Board decided to continue the reading of the Old _ Testament for the Relief Society year of 1935 and 1936. The Relief Society sisters are to be congratulated on the remarkable success with which they have conducted the Project during the past year. The extent of their efforts is felt in every community. It is to be hoped that the current year will be equally fruitful, that added treasures will be found in this "storehouse of ideals;" that the historic data, the literary masterpieces, and the wealth of spiritual truths will enrich the lives of our people. The subjects for the Teachers' Topic have been taken from the Old Testament with the hope that these two educational features in Relief Society might aid each other. For the years 1936 and 1937; 1937 and 1938, the New Testament will afford the material for the Project, the THE FIELD 43 Theological Lessons and the Teachers' Topic. If the sisters of Relief Society know of the program in advance it will enable them to plan their courses to the best advantage. TIME OF RELIEF SOCIETY LESSON PUBLICATION N response to many requests the advance lessons for the Relief Society courses were published beginning with the May 1935 issue of the Relief Society Magazine. This early publication of the lessons has been of some benefit, but an actual tryout of the plan has demonstrated that the disadvantages far out-number the advantages. Much confusion has resulted, and it has been impossible for the office to supply the "lost issues" of the Magazines containing the lesson outlines. It has, therefore, been decided to publish a prospectus of the lesson courses in the June, 1936, Magazine, and the lesson outlines to begin as in previous years, in the August issue. LEADERSHIP WEEKS DUE to the courtesy and fine cooperation of the Brigham Young University, of Provo, Utah, and the Ricks College, of Rexburg, Idaho, the Relief Society will participate in the Leadership Weeks of these fine institutions of learning. This is really a marvelous opportunity for Relief Society to get information and inspiration which aids greatly in carrying on the work of the organization. The Relief Society expects to have two hours each day during the week at the Brigham Young University —from 10:30 to 11:30 a. M. And from 11:30a. M. To 12:30 p. M. The first period will be devoted to consideration 44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the formal educational subjects, with the General Theme: "Spiritual Growth Through our Course of Study." Monday— Spiritual Through Theology. Tuesday—Spiritual Through Literature. Wednesday—Spiritual Growth Through the Teachers' Topic and Project. Thursday—Factors Fundamental in the Development of Spiritual Life in the Community. Friday—Spiritual Growth Through Social Service. The Work and Business will conduct its session during the second Growth Growth period assigned to Relief Society, and the following program will be put into effect: Monday—Mental and Cultural Value of Handicraft, Knitting and Crocheting. Tuesday—Principles of Design and Color as Applied to Handicraft, Upholstering and Reconditioning Furniture. Wednesday—Floor Finishing and Coverings, Drapes. Thursday—Miscellaneous Day— Screens, Trays, Picture Frames, Block Printing, Lighting, etc. Friday—The Fundamental Purpose of Work Days, Discussion. Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest HE committee for the General Board of the Relief Society takes much satisfaction in announcing the result of the annual prize poem contest for 1935. There were 89 poems submitted, many so excellent that the task of selection was most difficult. The object of the contest, to encourage women to write and appreciate poetic literature, seems to meet with success and it is indeed gratifying to note the excellence of most of the poems sent in. We trust the same interest will be manifest each succeeding year. The judges this year were Professor John Henry Evans, educator and writer, John D. Spencer, literary and dramatic critic and Mrs. Elise B. Alder, member of the General Board of the Relief Society. The first prize was awarded to Blanche Kendall McKey of Ogden for her sonnet "Autumn." Second prize to Beatrice K. Ekman of Salt Lake City, for her poem, "Across The Years." Honorable mention was given to Sadie Ollerton Clark, El Paso, Texas, for "To My Mother," to Mabel S. Harmer of Salt Lake City for "My Foster Child" and to Ethellyn Jones of Boise, Idaho, for "The Lonely One." We congratulate the successful authors and thank them and all who contributed to the contest. We are also deeply indebted and grateful to the judges for their assistance. Annie Wells Cannon, Julia A. F. Lund, Rosannah C. Irvine, Lottie Paul Baxter, Mary C. Kimball, Poem Contest Committee Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary Cottonwood Stake COTTON WOOD Stake is especially proud of its Maternity Hospital, which was founded a little more than ten years ago, under the direction and supervision of the Relief Society of Cottonwood Stake. It is located at 414 East 56th South Street, Murray, Utah, away from the busy din of a much traveled thoroughfare. The institution owes much of its success to the fine supervision, executive ability and untiring efforts of the women directing it. At present Sister Lovina H. McMillan, president of the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, and her board members, are supervisors of the institution, with the first counselor, Lyle M. Berry in charge. During the past year there were two hundred and twenty-one births, with three sets of twins. More than two thousand children have been born in the institution. Patients from all parts of Utah and some from Idaho, Colorado, Nevada and Wyoming have patronized it. During the past year, two hundred and forty new articles were made, in addition to mending and repairing articles necessary in the hospital. This was accomplished at the Work and Business Meeting of Relief Society. The sisters also put up seven hundred quarts of fresh fruits, jams, pickles and relishes for use in the hospital. The public clinic in connection with the hospital has successfully served mothers in the work done among the pre-school children. Following the close of the hospital clinic the work was carried on in the City Hall by Murray City. The Salt Lake County Health Department has cooperated splendidly in providing the nursing service. The clinic is held on the first and third Thursday of each month, and funds from the Relief Society are provided through the Wheat Trust Fund. The clinic has been of inestimable value to the mothers of the community, and during the last year conducted examinations of 120 children, 66 new babies, and gave 368 physical examinations. Following the suggestion of the General Board the Relief Society instituted a Stake Library, which was organized and conducted by Sister Jane P. Bowers of the Stake Board, who is also the librarian and Magazine Agent. This work is conducted each month through regular classes in the Union Meetings. The newest methods of handling library work are being studied and given to the sisters. The Relief Society of the stake is very much pleased with the Project. The stake board purchased Aids to the Project enough to provide each pair of Visiting Teachers with a copy, and in some of the wards enough copies were given so that each Relief Society member might have one. North Weber Stake MOST interesting project was put into effect by the North Weber Stake. This took the form of a remodeling school sponsored by the Home and Community section of the Wilson Farm Bureau, with the Wilson Ward Relief So- 46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE city cooperating. The school was conducted two days a week for three. Weeks. It included practical work of cleaning, pressing, cutting and sewing, as well as part of the time being given to a discussion of possibilities of remodeling, workmanship, finishes, color, line, design and pattern alterations. Local leaders secured several long work-tables, and sent their own machines to the ward hall for public use during these classes. Two women were appointed each work day as hostesses to take Stake was very interesting and profitable, and Winter work started with characteristic spirit and was carried through to a most successful conclusion. The Magazine Drive was started with the play as outlined in the Magazine, and the accompanying picture the St. George South Ward in costume, together with the Ward Presidency. On Saturday, June 22, a most delightful outing was held. This took the form of a teachers' convention, though all the members of the Relief Society were invited NORTH WEBER STAKE charge of the work program, to make arrangements for luncheon and entertainment of the young children' while their mothers were at work. Two trained demonstrators coming from the Utah Agricultural College were unable to take care of the great numbers of women who came, so local women were called to assist. Garments of every description were re-made, ranging from ladies' dresses and coats to children's overcoats and suits. St. George Stake URING the last year the Summer activity of the St. George and participated. The group met at the recreation center in Pine Valley, and more than 260 responded from the eleven wards in the stake. Central Ward, with an enrollment of 17 had 15 present; Leeds Ward with 25, had its entire membership in attendance; while St. George West Ward had 55, and other wards had an excellent representation. At the outdoor amphitheater each ward contributed one number toward the program. Prizes were given to the oldest, the youngest and the longest in service of the Visiting Teachers. Luncheon was served at one o'clock, NOTES FROM THE FIELD ST. GEORGE, SOUTH WARD and each ward contributed its portion. The afternoon was spent in games, stunts and an impromptu program. Such gatherings as this do much to create the spirit of fellowship among the members, and supply a fine type of recreation. Ogden Stake HE following report from the Thirteenth Ward of the Ogden stake is quite characteristic of the whole stake. The lesson work has been conducted in a most interesting and efficient manner under the various ward officers and class leaders. In the Thirteenth Ward a kindergarten class is conducted during Relief Society, and this had made it possible for many of the young mothers to attend and get the benefit of the wonderful lessons and have their children well occupied. Through the efforts of the Music Department a well organized ladies' chorus has rendered music for the meetings, and furnished numbers for the Sacrament service on many occasions. The Visiting Teachers have performed a wonderful work, and are always ready to respond to any call that is made. In this one ward alone 2,059 visits to the homes have been made. The scriptural reading project has been very successfully carried into effect, and 39 books of the Old Testament have been read and short reports given by the members. The quilting committee has donated several fine quilts, and the regular activities of the Relief Society have been very successfully carried through and much social entertainment has been derived through the gatherings. Logan Stake UNE 5th marked the fifteenth anniversary of the Logan Stake Relief Society, and a very delightful entertainment was held to commemorate the occasion. The stake board gave a luncheon honoring the retired 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and active ward presidents. All board members and Relief Society presidents of the near-by stakes were invited to be guests, as well as representatives from the General Board. About 60 were in attendance. The party was held in the Logan Second Ward Recreation Hall. Luncheon tables were most artistically decorated with yellow tulips and blue painted daisies, representing the Relief Society colors. Early summer flowers and green were used effectively NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION in the decorations. In the evening all ward officers, class leaders and visiting teachers were entertained. A sacred play in keeping with the Bible Project for the year was presented with appropriate lighting effects and special music. Refreshments were served to about 250 guests. North Central States Mission "THE St. Paul, Minnesota Branch of the North Central States Mission celebrated Anniversary Day in a most delightful manner. A part of the celebration took the form of a play, as shown in the picture. Southern States VERY interesting and progressive report comes from the Southern States Mission. Following a tour of the mission, Sister Ina Richards writes: "Brother Richards and I have just returned from a most enjoyable trip through the very beautiful State of Florida, visiting the various branches and holding conferences. Our Relief Societies are doing some excellent work. We have a few large organizations in the Florida conference and many small ones, but all doing conscientious, consistent work, and following the full program as outlined for us. It is wonderful to see how our members measure up to the tasks given them. In Miami we have had a very successful year. Not once during the season has the appointed lesson been missed or the teacher in charge been absent. Although we are far out of your reach we are very close to you, and sometimes in the work and literature you send us we almost feel your dear hearts beat. This branch cooperates with Civic Welfare leaders, and while I was NOTES FROM THE FIELD 49 there a number of them were invited to hear something of our work during one afternoon. They were very intelligent, cultured women, about twelve in all, and they asked for our social welfare program. We had a very happy and profitable time together. We are indeed grateful for all fine women who are interested in solving the perplexing problems of our fellowmen. In Atlanta they have recognized us as a social unit and we are able to assist the Ladies' Auxiliary in connection with the Grady Hospital, which is a very large one. Due to this recognition, the lady missionaries spend two hours each Monday distributing library books and some of our own splendid literature. Emery Stake SPLENDID work has been done in the Emery Stake on the Project. The office is in receipt of the report of the scripture reading from the Huntington Relief Society as it is rendered in its regular project meeting. The work is put on a fine study basis, using the Aid to the Project as the subject matter for consideration, but much original work on the part of the Relief Society sisters has been added to this. A picture collection has been a wonderful addition. These pictures are the means of demonstrating the spirit of the Books as they are presented. The material is collected from all sources. The Emery Stake Relief Society held its Annual Day on June 30, 1935, at the Wilberg resort near Castle Dale. The Relief Society members invited their husbands, and the Bishops with their Counselors participated in the pleasant event. Five hundred responded to the invitation. The evening entertainment began with a luncheon at seven o'clock. This was followed by dancing and appropriate games. All voted it one of the most successful gatherings ever held. Missionaries to depart in the near future for various missions called from Hooper Ward, Weber Stake, and their Relief Society mothers. Top row, left to right: Carl Manning going to Czechoslovakia, Jennie Aldous Manning, Milton G. Widdison, German-Austrian Mission; Lillian Gardner Widdison, Carl Hooper, Australian Mission; Luella Hobson Hooper, Dean Flowers, French Mission; Cora Q. Flowers. Front row, left to right: Jay Beus, Argentine Mission, Susan Parker Beus; Wendel T. Belnap, Western States Mission, Zina Taylor Belnap; Raymond E. Widdison, Swiss-German Mission; Leah Widdison. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - President AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - - - - - First Counselor KATE M. BARKER. - -: - - - - - - - Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Emma A. Empey Ethel Reynolds Smith Hazel H. Greenwood Annie Wells Cannon Rosannah C. Irvine Emeline Y. Nebeker Jennie B. Knight Nettie D. Bradford Mary Connelly Kimball Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Janet M. Thompson Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Belle S. Spafford Cora L. Bennion Ida P. Beal Donna Durrant Sorensen Amy Whipple Evans Marcia K. Howells RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - - Mary Connelly Kimball Manager - - - - -- - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Vol. XXIII JANUARY, 1936 No. 1 Ring in Peace and Fellowship and Love As the New Year dawns and the Old passes into history, we look fondly back on 1935 realizing that it has been a wonderful time in which to live. We have enjoyed all that science has given in the past few years, such gifts as would seem impossible were we not enjoying them—radio, electricity, central heating, luxurious travel—one wonders what more the future can bring. Yet with all these material blessings, the world is not advancing morally and spiritually as it should. A thoughtful writer pertinently says "Ways for killing time and killing human beings have multiplied greatly in number and efficiency. There has been no increase in thoughtfulness, intellectual and moral independence, or rational self-determination. Great sums are raised for education and other forms of charity, but the result is not an increase in the proportionate number of rational self-respecting and self-determining human individuals. The opportunities for the individual to spend his time and energy and means are ever multiplying, but his capacity to make in use of these opportunities wisely shows no increase." As the year closes we see nations preparing for war. People look into futurity fearfully, dreading what it may bring, for there is unrest, widespread fault-finding and disloyalty everywhere. There is need for a renassiance of the old-time virtues of peace, loyalty, good-will, brotherhood and love. So as we peer into the future, we hope 1936 will bring peace to warring nations, a spirit of helpfulness among individuals and nations, an increase of individual and national unselfishness, a spirit of building up rather than tearing down, of giving a helping hand, of dwelling upon people's virtues rather than magnifying their weaknesses. May the New Year bells ring in a year of peace and fellowship and love. EDITORIAL 51 The Fundamental Purpose of Our Work Days WE fear that many in their pleasure in mental activity are losing sight of the primary purpose of our work sessions. While we appreciate the excellent cultural departments which many of the organizations have inaugurated for their Work and Business periods, we call attention to the fact that the origin of Work and Business in our Relief Society was to care for those who were in need. It is a desirable thing to gain skill with the hands. It is an art to be able to fashion artistic clothing and to make things that are useful and beautiful. Through our organization many women have become expert quilt makers, have learned to make most beautiful rugs, flowers, cushions, luncheon sets, etc. Surely learning to do and execute such work is valuable. Let us not in our joy in mental activities lose sight of these things. Recently in one of our wards an excellent cultural lesson was given on Work and Business day, but when the Relief Society meeting closed the women met little children going home from school who were cold and very poorly clothed. One little child had no coat, although the day was very cold, and her little hands were blue from lack of clothing and possibly not enough food. Would not these women have found more joy in preparing warm clothing for these little ones? We feel that this is the first requirement of our Relief Society and that cultural lessons must come on work days only when motherless children, or any children for that matter, are properly clothed. -We cannot afford to let our children be humiliated by going to school in ragged clothing. There is an instance of a sweet young girl 15 years old who was trying to care for five motherless children. She was invited out with the Girl Scouts. One of the requirements was for each girl to wear a warm coat on this ocassion. She came to our Relief Society to show us the very ragged lining of her coat and said she would be embarrassed to take it. She had worked for a woman who gave her enough material to line her coat, but she did not know how to put the lining in. To help in a situation like this is the first call for Work and Business days in Relief Societies. Our program if carried out gives rounded development. Let us follow it and never become blind to the needs of the poor or deaf to their cries. Resolutions WHEN the New Year dawns people try to "turn over a new leaf." They make many resolutions. Alas, many of them die in the "borning." Were these good resolutions kept, what a transformation there would be in people's lives. One time David Farragut asked, "Would you like to know how I was enabled to serve my country? It was all owing to a resolution I formed when I was ten. My father was sent to New Orleans to look after the treason of Burr. I accompanied him as cabin boy. I could swear like an old salt. I could drink as stiff a glass of grog as if I had doubled Cape Horn. I could smoke like a locomotive. I was great at cards and was fond of gambling in every 52 shape. I was very proud of these achievements, but one day my father called me to him and said, 'David, what do you intend to be?' 'I mean to follow the sea,' I answered. 'Follow the sea,' repeated my father? "Yes, be a poor, miserable, drunken sailor before the mast, kicked and cuffed about and die in some fever hospital in a foreign clime.' 'No, father,' I said proudly, 'I will tread the quarter deck and command as you do.' 'No, David, no boy ever trod the quarter deck with such principles as you have and such habits as you exhibit. You will have to change your whole course of life if you ever become a man.' I then "Star ANNA JOHNSON, the author of "Echoes" and "Oriental Rhymes," has just gotten out a new book "Star Dust." This volume is dedicated to Ruth May Fox and is a friendship book. It has a lovely thought for every day in the year. Scattered throughout the book are numbers of blank pages where thoughts and quotations may be jotted down. We quote some lovely lines from this book. "Rejoice in the beauty of sunrise, When light is beginning to shine. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE formed a resolution and from that time on I never uttered another oath, never drank intoxicating liquors and never gambled." And so this boy who was headed for destruction, through the talk with his father and the resolutions then formed, became a great man in history. Would that many other boys and girls would form similar resolutions and cease drinking, swearing, smoking and gambling. These evils are on the increase and all parents should do everything in their power to restrain their children from becoming addicts to liquor and tobacco and forming habits that will lead to their eventual ruin. “Dust"' Throw open your heart to the splendor That flashes a message divine." Nature. "Pure thoughts are true and silent friends That cheer our lonesome hours. They smile from gardens of the soul Like dainty bright-eyed flowers. While other things grow commonplace And fancies drift apart, We'll find good thoughts are company That cheer the aching heart." Good Thoughts. Congratulations a N December 9, 1935 Sisters Minnie Horne James' and Cornelle Horne Clayton, twin daughters of Mary Isabella and Joseph Horne, celebrated their eightieth birthday. Their daughters gave them a reception at the home of Mrs. Minnie Horne Whitney. Hundreds of their friends had the privilege of calling and extending greetings to these fine women who have always been exemplary in their lives and active EDITORIAL 53 in Church activities. They have with health of body, peace of mind demonstrated how lovely it is to and joy in the association of their grow old graciously. Family and friends. May their future years be blessed TO ELIZA R. SNOW By Elsie E. Barrett DEAR FRIEND! We still hold loving thoughts of YOU, You were so brave. In service to your Faith, both tried and true, You freely gave. You climbed with quiet grace the darkened ways, A shining light. You sang your way to hearts those somber days With Soul contrite, And now each year on chains of eulogy We string our thoughts and clasp with memory. You've found Immortal youth through precepts dear In realms above; But who can say your Spirit is not near To feel our love. You've gained the rest and peace that passeth pain, Left earthly dross; Your Father knows you did not live in vain, You bore your cross. Sometime, somewhere what's YOU will reunite, Eternal progress shown by God's own light. Our tears are dried, dear one, we'll thankful be That we on earth Walked roads with you, knew love and loyalty. Your Heavenly birth Has guided you to higher tasks, each dream Will be fulfilled. You lived and served for deathless things, supreme Divinely willed. You left a righteous heritage so vast, That lives and grows and will forever last. No more earth's shadowed places, in His Glory Your SOUL must thrill to LOVE'S ETERNAL STORY. Lesson Department (For First Week in June) Theology and Testimony LESSON IX THE WESTWARD MIGRATION 1. The Critical Period. The death of the Prophet Joseph Smith brought about the first disorganization of the Presidency of the church. Although the revelations were very clear concerning the matter of succession, yet the saints had given but little thought to such a contingency, and therefore many of them were greatly confused when the problem actually confronted them. In a revelation given to the apostles some nine years earlier, the Lord declared that “The twelve traveling councilors are called to be Twelve Apostles, or special witnesses of the name of Christ in all the world—thus differing from other officers in the church in the duties of their calling. And they form a quorum equal in authority and power to the three presidents previously mentioned." (D. & C. 107:23, 24) 2. At the time of the martyrdom most of the apostles were absent on missions; only two were at home and one of these was seriously injured. Immediately upon receiving word, those who were away hurried back to Nauvoo. For several years prior to this time, Sidney Rigdon, first councilor to Joseph Smith, had made his residence at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, contrary to the wishes of the Prophet and the commandment of God. (See D. & C. 124: 108-110). But as soon as he learned of Joseph's death, he also hastened to Nauvoo, arriving there on the third of August, about three or four days ahead of most of the apostles. 3. Doubtless hoping to have a leader appointed before the apostles arrived, Sidney Rigdon called a meeting in the forenoon of August 4, 1844, and offered himself as guardian for the church. He spoke at great length in favor of this proposal. Another meeting was held in the afternoon, with the same object in view. Elder William Marks, president of the stake, announced a meeting for August 8, although Sidney Rigdon wanted it called for the 6th. This was indeed fortunate, for President Young and several of the apostles did not reach Nauvoo until the evening of the last-named date, namely August 6. 4. In the forenoon of the appointed day, August 8, a great throng of people gathered in the grove near the temple. Sidney Rigdon took up his position in a wagon about two rods in front of the stand and spoke for nearly an hour and a half. He again proposed himself as guardian of the church, but the longer he talked, the less the people appeared willing to receive him. President Young spoke briefly and announced that the meeting would be continued at two o'clock in the afternoon. 5. At the appointed time the multitude returned. President Young addressed the assembly with frankness and great power, declaring that the apostles had been appointed and ordained to bear the Keys of the Kingdom of God in all the world. He said he did not want to bias the saints against the claims of Sidney LESSON DEPARTMENT 55 Rigdon, and urged them to vote precisely as they felt. It was upon this occasion, according to widespread testimony, that Brigham Young was transformed into the likeness of the slain prophet—voice, person and manner. 6. When the question was put to the assembly as to whether or not they were willing to sustain the apostles as leaders of the church, the vote was unanimous in the affirmative. Thus from the time of the Prophet's death in June of 1844, to December of 1847, the Twelve Apostles with Brigham Young at their head, constituted the presiding council of the church. On the 15th of December, 1847, Brigham Young was sustained as President of the church. This was done at Winter Quarters after his return from the memorable pioneer journey to the Rocky Mountains. 7. Persecution Continued. The murdering of the Prophet and his brother, Hyrum, merely had the effect of intensifying the determination of the enemies of the church to wreak their fiendish passions on its entire membership. The Prophet had foreseen this, for in an address to the Nauvoo Legion, delivered near - the Mansion on June 18, 1844, he said: "It is thought by some that our enemies would be satisfied with my destruction; but I tell you that as soon as they have shed my blood, they will thirst for the blood of every man in whose heart dwells a single spark of the spirit of the fullness of the Gospel. The opposition of these men is moved by the spirit of the adversary of all righteousness. It is not only to destroy me, but every man and woman who dares to believe the doctrines that God hath inspired me to teach to this generation." (History of the Church, Vol. VI, p. 498.) 8. Doubtless the enemies of the Prophet thought that when he and Hyrum were put to death, the church would come to a sudden end. Therefore, when they witnessed the installation of new officers and the determination of the membership to carry on, their anger was rekindled and they turned their wicked attention to the, people as a whole. A campaign to incite public opinion against the church was launched in several unfriendly papers. The saints were charged with theft, immorality, disloyalty to county, and nearly every crime in the criminal calendar. Schemes were launched to provoke the saints to retaliation. The homes of scattered members were burned and the families seriously harassed and mistreated. Meantime the Governor permitted these merciless attacks to go on unrestrained. 9. Finally, of course, the breaking point came and the saints were notified by a committee that they were expected to move from the state of Illinois. Counter proposals were of no avail, and eventually, under threats of armed force, the demand was acceded to. 10. Migration to Winter Quarters. Departure from Nauvoo began in the early part of February, 1846. At this season of the year, the great Mississippi was covered with ice and the weather was altogether unfavorable to travel; but in the face of these untoward conditions, a large contingent of the saints moved across the river and camped at Sugar Creek, a few miles within the state of Iowa. It is recorded that during the first night of the encampment here, nine infants were born. The company remained at this place for nearly a month, receiving reinforcements and organizing for the journey ahead. By this time there were four hundred wagons, many of them 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE poorly covered, and with insufficient teams to permit of more than extremely slow travel. The roads too were nearly impassable due to heavy rains and the clay-like nature of the soil. 11. At the outset of the journey, one hundred men were sent ahead to improve the roads and to locate places where crops might be planted and houses be built for the temporary use of the stream of slowly oncoming saints. Such a site was selected on the east fork of Grand river, one hundred forty-five miles west of Nauvoo, and named Garden Grove. Land was cleared, fences were put up, roads were improved, fields were prepared for cultivation, wells were dug, houses were built, and thus a village magically rose in the midst of the wilderness. 12. Another such resting place was established at a locality named Mount Pisgah, twenty-seven miles west of Garden Grove. Here seven thousand acres were fenced and made ready for cultivation. It should be observed that to the lasting credit of these pioneers they were willing to plant that others might reap. Such unselfishness, such devotion to the cause of human brotherhood, is probably without a parallel in the history of mankind. 13. Some four months after the departure of the saints from Nauvoo, the vanguard of the company began to arrive at the east banks of the Missouri river, not far from Council Bluffs, an outpost of civilization. Daily arrivals soon swelled the company to nearly five hundred wagons. 14. It was the original intention of President Young and the apostles to send a strong contingent of able bodied men to the Rocky Mountains that season to build houses and plant crops preparatory to the arrival of the body of the saints. The main company, however, had been compelled to travel very slowly because of its unexpectedly large size, and just now it had been weakened by the request of the government for five hundred volunteers for the war with Mexico. Because of this, it was decided to postpone the Rocky Mountain project until early the following spring. 15. Accordingly, a decision was reached to remain at the river for the winter. Permission was obtained from the chiefs of the Pottawattamie Indian tribes to build temporary quarters on the west bank of the river. Here a site was chosen and named Winter Quarters. Houses were built; a council house, for the holding of meetings, was constructed; a grist mill was put up; and the area was improved generally. The object was doubtless as much to keep the people busy as to provide for their convenience. In spite of these efforts, however, there was much suffering arising perhaps chiefly from improper food and congestion of living quarters. The arrival of springtime was most welcome. 16. Onward to the Valleys. Preparation for the journey westward went steadily forward throughout the winter. Sturdy, able-bodied men were selected for the journey—uncomplaining, fearless men, who had already proved their integrity to the cause of truth. On the 14th of January, 1847, the word of the Lord came to President Young giving instruction for the organization of the Pioneer company and its guidance to the West. (See D. & C. 136) 17. Some seven weeks later, namely, April 5, 1847, the first contingent left Winter Quarters and shortly thereafter went into temporary camp some forty-seven miles to LESSON DEPARTMENT 57 the westward slightly beyond the Elkhorn river. Within the next few days, several other contingents concentrated at this place and on the 14th of April the entire company was organized for its unparalleled trip to the Rocky Mountains. The total number of people was one hundred forty-seven, of whom three were women and two were children. 18. In addition to the organization just mentioned which was de-. Signed chiefly to facilitate travel, a military organization was also effected, with Brigham Young as lieutenant-general; Stephen Markham, colonel; John Pack and Shadrach Roundy, majors. 19. The route of travel was along the north side of the Platte River to Fort Laramie, eastern Wyoming. At this point the company crossed the Platte to the south side and recrossed it slightly to the west of the present site of Casper. The journey continued up the Sweetwater into the drainage of the Green river and thence over the great Basin divide into the headwaters of Bear river. From here onward the company passed through Echo canyon, East canyon, Emigration, and into Salt Lake Valley. 20. The first of the Pioneers reached Salt Lake Valley on July 21, 1847. Others came on the 22nd and still others on the 24th. In harmony with instruction from President Young, who was delayed because of illness, those who entered on the 21st and 22nd sought out a place where planting could begin and a city be built. This was done and plowing was commenced on the 23rd. In the meantime President Young was kept informed of what was being done. Thus on the 24th of July, 1847, as the carriage in which the President was riding drew up in such a position that he could see the valley, he prophetically declared, "This is the Place." 21. The journey from Winter Quarters had consumed almost precisely one hundred days, and the distance traveled was slightly more than a thousand miles. Before the close of the season in excess of two thousand people had reached the valley. A new refuge had been founded—Zion, in the tops of the mountains. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Why was the period immediately following the Prophet's death the most critical in the history of the church? 2. What do you know of President Young's "transfiguration''? Have you heard anyone testify that witnessed it? 3. Why in your judgment should the Prophet's enemies turn upon the saints after they had slain him? 4. What is the distance from Nauvoo to Council Bluffs? How long would it take you to travel this distance? 5. What do you think of the integrity of a people who would plant that others might reap? 6. Why was it advisable that the people should be kept busy at Winter Quarters? Do we have any modern parallels? 7. In what respects did the Pioneers perform a mighty service for the church? 58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Work and Business LIGHTING AND LAMP SHADES HESE long winter nights when children are preparing lessons, proper lighting is very important. Unshaded lights produce a glare which is hard on the eyes. To avoid this all bulbs should be shaded to diffuse the light. In the discussion on Home Lighting, pg. 50 of Handicraft for Every Woman, many essential facts concerning this subject are given as well as suggestions and directions for making lamp shades for every type of lamp and to suit any pocket book. CONSUMER PROBLEMS HEN you buy tempting bargains that prove after the first washing to be shoddy merchandise. You are not only cheating yourself you are helping to undermine conditions of everybody from the farmer who grows the cotton to the people who weave it into cloth and the men and women who sell it to you as finished product." Selection and wearing of clothes has a prominent place in the business of living. Few things offer such a lift to depressed spirits as a new hat or shoes. What we wear does more than cover and protect our bodies. Other human needs are security, response, recognition, new experiences. The glamour of any occasion whatever the place or season is largely created by the shimmer and shine, the jaunty cut, the grace and color of clothes. If wisely chosen they enhance looks, and personalities. In lieu of big adventures we find new experiences in things close at hand. Have we exploited the possibilities of clothing as thoroughly as we might? Sewing in an occupational therapy and in good times as well as bad, handiwork has been an outlet for the creative impulse. Personal habits, general standards, poise and satisfaction are reflected in appearance. The more perishable goods with constant style changes enforce indulgence of our love of novelty which requires better consideration of values. Fashioning of all ready-to-wear products is done so well that even inexpensive garments register smartness. If as much could be said of the fabric durability, workmanship and quality, buying would be better done. Some points to consider in buying ready-to-wear dresses are: 1. Know what you can afford. 2. Know definitely what you want from the dress you buy. 3. Responsibility of shop for quality of merchandise it sells. 4. Strength and purity of fabric. 5. Color fastness— to sunlight and perspiration as well as washing. 6. Shrinkability "completely shrunk" or "will not shrink" are safest labels. 7. Style and fit. 8. Workmanship which includes seams, hems, pockets, button holes, stitching, trimmings as button buckles. 9. Laundering and cleaning. QUESTIONS 1. What should govern the amount spent for clothing? What per cent of budget? 2. Discuss the important points to be considered in buying ready-to-wear dresses. 3. Compare ready-to-wear with home made clothing as to economy of time, money, energy, material, See Better Buymanship Series, Household Finance Corporation, 919 N, Michi. Gan Ave., Chicago, ILL LESSON DEPARTMENT 59 style, fit, and becomingness. Which of careful and intelligent buying and do you prefer? Wearing of clothing? 4. What is the psychological value Teacher's Topic (For June 1936) Proverbs 31:10-31 "Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchants ships; she bringeth her food from afar. She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard. She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth not out by night. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy. She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet. She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; * her clothing is silk and purple. Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land. She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant. Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come. She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all. Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates." THE last chapter of Proverbs closes with the description of a good woman and well may it do so, for woman's place is so important that when woman fails, civilization fails. Verily in her keeping are the issues of life. Her standard determines the tone of society. "Pure, true and strong, she makes men worship purity, truth and strength. Corrupt, false and vain, she blights and blasts the ideal of man, lowers all his aspirations, excites his evil passions to a frenzy of iniquity, degrades his soul to a level below the brutes." Some one has well said that the condition of woman is the touch stone of a civilized society. She has stronger religious feeling and faith and is more susceptible to spiritual influences than is man. "The man is not without the woman in the Lord." The one who is so glorified in this chapter is a wife. Neither man nor woman is complete without the other. Her husband finds in her his trust. She doeth 60 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE him good all the days of his life. It is this strength at home that gives to most men their dignity and place in public life. He is known in the gates because he gets peace, assurance and help in his home. Her children rise up and her husband too to praise her. She is industrious and because of her industry is a source of wealth to her husband. She seems to be able to increase the money entrusted to her. She is generous. "She spreadeth out her hand to the poor," Economy and generosity go hand in hand. "Where the woman who has been described is actually found in real life," says R. L. Horton, "it is for us to recognize her and to reward her. Let society take note of her: ‘Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her works praise her in the gates'. The great Greek historian said that woman's highest praise consisted in not being mentioned at all. That is not the teaching of Revelation3Woman's best work is often done in silence and without observation, but her highest praise is when the seeds sown in silence have grown into flowers of loveliness and fruit that is sweet to the taste, and the whole community is forced to yield her the honor which is her due, exalting, with heartfelt admiration and with deep gratitude to God, the Wife, the Mother, the Ministrant to the Poor." Discussion 1. Enumerate the virtues of' the woman here depicted. 2. Show that there was a balance in her virtues. 3. Look around you and find counterparts in your own. Ward. 4. It would be interesting in this connection to read the following Proverbs dealing with women: 22: 14; 23:27; 19:13; 21:9; 25:24; 21: 19; 27:15; 17:16; 11:22; 14:1. Literature (For Third Week in June) ADVENTURES IN READING NEW LAMPS FOR OLD "In time there is nothing either old or new; there is only the rising and the falling of the Infinite Tide."—Elbert Hubbard. "New lamps for old," the genie of contemporary literature calls to today's readers. Today's poets, as of old, sing of the beauty of Nature, of the passions of Mankind, and of Life and Love. They also sing of the mine and the factory, the immigrant on Ellis Island and the sailor at the mast. There are also new forms and new styles, some alluring, some strange. In today's world of books where the "best seller" is the popular stamp of approval, the book "that is the precious life-blood of a master" is as of old "a magic casement opening on the foam." An Old Theme in a New World "The King's Henchman," a beautiful poetic drama, by Edna St. Vincent Millay provided the libretto for one of the most effective and artistically constructed American operas which has reached the stage. Edna St. Vincent Millay is easily ranked as one of the foremost of the new poets. She came to fame by her early volume of poems "Re-nas'- cence," of which collection "God's World" is the best known. Her latest work, a book of sonnets, is a record of her spirit, the joy of living and loving. Miss Millay graduated from Vassar in 1917. In 1921 she was awarded the Columbia Poetry Prize, and in 1922 the Pulitzer Prize. It is accepted by literary critics that she and John Masefield are the greatest living sonnet writers. Harriet Monroe, American critic, claims for Edna St. Vincent Millay "the richest, most varied, and most precious gift of song which any woman since the immortal Sappho has offered to the world." The theme of the drama "The King's Henchman" is an old literary remnant originally attributed to Celtic literature, and found in some form in all Teutonic literatures as the story of Tristan and Iseult. The story as found in the Arthurian cycle was used by Tennyson in "The Idylls of the King," another version was used by Wagner for his music drama "Tristan and Isolde." The setting of the drama is placed in the eighth century during the reign of King Edgar of England. The first act takes place in the king's banquet hall at Winchester. The court is assembled and Maccus, the grizzled friend of the king and a most skilful harpist has been singing the favorite song of the court, the saga of the glory and death of Cynewulf, King of Wessex. As the singer chants the story of the treachery that happened to the warrior at the door of his mistress by a rival for his throne, the courtiers listen in wrapt attention to the song of what happened: "By the bower of the Lady, Quenched forever, quelled and cold. Synewulf, the King!" After the singing the lords talk among themselves as they drink their wine. The ladies of the court discuss openly the latest news of the court, that the king is going to request the Thane of Devon to give his beautiful daughter, Aelfrida, for his bride. Aethelwold, trusted foster-brother of the king, is chosen to be the king's henchman for the mission to the court of Devon. He accepts the task out of love for his brother but with little glee, because he is a clumsy fellow, knowing little of the delicacies of women. The soldiers chosen to accompany Aethelwold assemble to the stirring old battle-song of the Cornish men, "O Ceasar, great wert thou', and as they depart the chorus rang out again and again; "Caesar, thy day is done, While ours is but begun!" The second act takes place on All Hallow's Eve. Aethelwold is near his destination, and rests with his men at nightfall in the forest near the Thane of Devon's castle. Aethelwold is near his destination, and rests with his men at nightfall in the forest near the Thane of Devon’s castle. Aelfrida has come to the forest with her serving-woman, Ase, "to seek in rune and spell a lover," for the old legend states that the first man a maiden meets in the woods that night will become her husband. As Aelfrida sings the incantation: White-thorn and black-thorn All Hallow's Eve is All Saint's Morning, Show him in dream, yet nothing dim The shadow and the shape of him," the light of the torch reveals the sleeping henchman. Days of infatuation follow, and Aethelwold withholds the facts of his mission. Later, Maccus is dispatched to the king with the message, "the maiden is comely and friendly spoken, but nothing for a king." The henchman and the maid wed. LESSON DEPARTMENT 61 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The last act of the drama opens at the home of the Thane of Devon some months later. Already, Aethelwold is suffering remorse for his treachery, the beauty of his bride cannot bring him peace of mind. Aelfrida, bored by household cares, continually chafes at her lowly estate. Aethelwold plans to leave Britain and go to Ghent in Flanders. Before the preparations are completed, however, news is brought that King Edgar is on his way to visit his foster-brother. Hastily, Aethelwold tells his wife the truth, "but for the mist, thou hads't been Queen of England." He pleads with her to hide from the king, to disguise her beauty by darkening her skin and hair, anything to shield him from blame. Aelfrida promises to protect her husband, as the marching-song of the king's men is heard in the distance. Ase has been listening to Aethelwold's confession and request, now she urges her mistress "to drop her silver shell that she might pick up a gold one." The first greeting between the two brothers is most affectionate. Soon Aelfrida enters dressed in her richest attire, her beautiful hair loosed from its braids, and on her forehead a golden band. Slowly Edgar begins to understand the course of things. Gently he reproaches his brother with the words, "My life hath been but a heaping of sticks under an empty pot." Nothing now can stem the anguish of Aethelwold at his own treachery as he sees the suffering of Edgar. The henchman falls on his own sword before anyone can stop him. Aelfrida weeps bitterly at the feet of the king, who noting her shallowness exclaims, "Thou hast not tears enow in thy narrow head to weep him worthily." The king and his followers return home, taking the body for burial. The music for the opera was composed by Deems Taylor for the Metropolitan Opera Company production in New York in 1927. The success of the undertaking was immediate and unmistakable. The text of the libretto is beautiful, written in quaint phrases. The theme lacks the inevitability of the early legends, as it bears the marks of modernity. It is considered, however, a noble attempt at poetic drama. They Who Bring Dreams America has been termed "the melting-pot of civilizations." As soon as it was established that Freedom was her watchword, men of all nations turned towards her shores. To the Gate of the West they came from all climes: from the land death-. Less in song and story that nursed Socrates, from the Polish leas that gave birth to the melodies of Chopin and Dvorak, from the land that reared Ceasar and Dante and Angelo, and sped the Genoese boy at the Santa Maria's prow to give the world a new message. "On and on." All newcomers with dreams, dreams bred in the glory and greatness of the past and born anew in the hope of the future: "Nations of darers and dreamers. Scions of singers and seers. Oe * * k OF Newcomers all from the eastern seas, Help us incarnate dreams like these, Help us father a nation, strong Jn the comradeship of an equal birth, In the wealth of the richest bloods of earth." —Robert Haven Schauffler. The short story is the newest of all literary forms and it is American in origin. From the dawn of history all ages, all nations, all peoples, civilized or savage, have been storytellers. America's greatest contribution to the field of modern literature is the short story. Perhaps no story LESSON DEPARTMENT 63 represents the secret of the greatness of America's contribution to this literary form so well as does the story, "The Citizen" by Francis Dwyer. The Citizen It is fitting that this American story should have as its author an American by adoption. In May, 1915, just after the sinking of the "Lusitania" when everyone's loyalty seemed to be focussed on thoughts of patriotism. Philadelphia welcomed into citizenship two thousand foreign born citizens. Mr. Dwyer, in his story, has made of the occasion a record for all time. One little woman held the hand of a big, muscular man as she listened to the President of the United States welcoming its newest citizens, "You were drawn across the sea by some beckoning finger of hope, by some belief, by some vision of a new kind of justice, by some expectation of a better kind of life. You dreamed dreams of this country, and I hope you brought the dreams with you. A man enriches the country to which he brings dreams, and you who have brought them have enriched America. No doubt you have been disappointed in some of us, but remember this, if we have grown poor in the ideal, you brought some of it with you. A man does not go out to seek the thing that is not in him. A man does not hope for the thing that he does not believe in, and if some of us have forgotten what America believed in, you at any rate imported in your own hearts a renewal of the belief. Each of you, I am sure, brought a dream, a glorious, shining dream, a dream worth more than gold or silver, and that is the reason that I for one, make you welcome." Big Ivan of the Bridge, holding Annie's hand, remembered every detail of his dream. How the idea first came to him in the land of his fathers by the Black Sea; how each coin was earned and saved for the journey; the weariness of the long tiresome days of travel by road, rail, and steamer; the arrival at Ellis Island and the confusion; the kind policeman who with a whistle stopped the roaring traffic while Ivan, his one trunk on his shoulder and holding tight to Annie's hand, crossed in safety; and now these words of welcome. The words of the President continued: "We grow great by dreams. All big men are dreamers. They see things in the soft haze of a spring day or in the red fire of a long winter's evening. Some of us let those great dreams die, but others nourish and protect them, nurse them through bad days till they bring them to sunshine and light which come always to those who sincerely hope that their dreams will come true." 'Big Ivan held Annie's hand tighter and whispered, "He knew of it. Did you hear what he said about dreams?" The band began to play, and Ivan and Annie got to their feet. Standing side by side they joined in with the others who too had found their way to the land of dreams. Songs of Our People From the simple beauty of the hymn "My Mountain Home So Dear" to the most exalted utterances of the prophetic leaders of the Latter-day Saints is a literary record unique in the annals of cultural and religious experience. Paralleling in thought the Hebrew belief of the Old Testament that they were the chosen people of God, they have related their experiences in narrative, lyric, and philosophic poetry. As the words of the beautiful poem "An Angel from on High" unfolds, 64 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the story of the restoration of the everlasting gospel in the latter days is given to the world; man's destiny has never been more beautifully pronounced to the world in any literature than it came from the pen of Eliza R. Snow in "O My Father." God's children in the valleys of the mountains in days of disadvantage and disappointment should find new courage in the assurance of the song of the travail of the days of yore, "Come, Come Ye Saints;" and as life with its complexity shakes man's poise and self-control is threatened, "School Thy Feelings" is a bulwark. The days pass on like a tale that is told. For the generations to come the story of the Pioneers has been told with delightful simplicity in "The Exiles" by Alfred Osmond. After the pattern of the epic tale of Longfellow's "Hiawatha" this poet of our people has recorded the experiences of the exiles as they crossed the trackless plains to a new home, where like the Hebrews of old they sought freedom to continue as God's chosen people. In conclusion of the series of lessons I leave a message: "No man can reveal to you aught but that which already lies half asleep in the dawning of your knowledge. "The teacher who walks in the shadow of the temple, among his followers, gives not of his wisdom but of his faith and lovingness. "If he is indeed wise he does not bid you enter the house of his wisdom, but rather leads you to the threshold of your understanding —The Prophet, Kahil. Gibran. NEW LAMPS FOR OLD Guide to Preparation A. Suggested topics for Lesson Assignments. 1. The old theme "Tristran and Iseult'' 2. Review: "The King's Henchman" 3. Reading: "The Exiles," Alfred Osmond Guide to Reading A. "Plet," Alfred Lambourne A story of early days in Utah. The tenderness and beauty of this metrical tale will be appreciated by all members of the family. B. "The Prophet," Kahil Gibran A prose poem of great beauty after the Hebrew pattern of the Psalms written by a new poet of the ancient race. C. "The Canterbury Pilgrims," Percy MacKaye A modern dramatist has used his imagination to reproduce the picture of fourteenth century society. It is more than a pageant parade of men. It reveals the spirit of the age of Chaucer, the morning of English literature. D. "Magic Spades," Steffins A simple account of the romance of archaeology. Today's understanding of the past has been enriched by this modern science of the ancient civilizations of the Hebrews, Egyptians, and the Greeks and are being revealed to us day by day as some new tomb, temple, or dwelling is uncovered by the spade of the archaeologist. LESSON DEPARTMENT 65 Social Service (Fourth Week in June) LESSON VIII HEALTH AND DISEASE Text: Chapter IX THE idea that "health is wealth" is gradually dawning on the public consciousness. It is a well determined fact that the health of the people is of more economic consequence to the financial well-being of the state than individual or business profits. Likewise, the relationship between a happy state of mind and a healthy body has long been recognized. What is not quite so well understood is that the general health of a community depends upon all of its members. The problem of physical health is too often considered to be a matter of individual or family consideration. However, as civilization becomes more complex the social aspect of public health also becomes more vital to all. Vigorous health in the community is an asset which returns joy and gladness to life and contributes to the economic welfare of the community. It is the purpose of this lesson to improve our understanding along these lines by developing the following specific purposes: 1. To see the relationship — public health and social efficiency. 2. To develop confidence in preventive medicine as a means of making life happier. 3. To realize individual responsibility in upholding and furthering public health programs. Public health is a basic factor in social welfare. The following examples of social conditions reveal the Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross relationship between health and social efficiency. Many of our great social problems, such as poverty, crime, vice, and delinquency have a direct causal relationship to the health of the individual. This statement is substantiated by modern clinical practice, which, in its attempts to analyze individual cases in unsocial behavior, always requires a careful medical examination of the individual. In many cases symptoms of physical or mental illness are disclosed. In turn, the foundation of the unsocial behavior is often traced to the ill health of the clinical patient. With the improvement in health a positive social attitude has often been developed. Also, poor health leads to poverty. An analysis of health conditions, particularly in the larger industrial centers, reveals that where sickness flourishes there will be found poverty. And poverty is noted as one of the greatest causes of juvenile delinquency. Children go wrong in their attempts to find more absorbing interests in life than the meager home can offer. Better health should be accomplished by better home conditions, and consequently less delinquency. Since the supplying of medical attention and the handling of delinquency are two large items in public expenditures their control through health education should raise the level of social efficiency very materially. Public health and welfare agencies are doing much to improve 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE health conditions in industrial centers and in community life as a whole, but a growing consciousness that the problem of public health is one of mutual concern and interest and should be considered from a social standpoint would do much to further the work of the present agencies. Sickness spreads from unkempt neighborhoods over large areas, and its victims are not restricted to the places of origin. Sickness usually affects the mental outlook in an undesirable way. As a result of illness, men and women sometimes become cynical and pessimistic in regard to the higher ideals of life, and their struggles appear hopeless. Many who are now publicly condemned for crime and immorality are suffering from a sick body or mind. Family well-being depends upon the radiation of joy and cheer and the pleasurable association of friends which are the natural accompaniments of good mental and physical health. Illness often pervades the home where the parents or children are the victims of unstable nerves. Moods of depression or irritable feelings result in physical breakdown. The finer spiritual values of life will not flourish under such conditions, nor can character develop desirably in such an environment. Preventive medicine could do much to make life happier for the public. While to a certain extent the health of the people depends somewhat upon the energies and defects inherited from past generations, to a greater extent it depends upon the utilization of scientific medical knowledge and the proper adjustment of controllable environmental influences. The extent to which preventive medicine is controlling diseases at one time considered a necessary problem of life is one of the marvels of the age. Yellow Fever, which once cost the United States $100,000,000 annually, has now disappeared from the United States. The death rate from typhoid fever has been reduced from 35.9 persons per 100,000 to 4.8 persons. Many diseases have been eliminated from the active list. The death rate in diphtheria has been reduced from 43.3 persons per 100,000 to 4.9 in 1930, with prospects of complete elimination. 'The expectation of life, i. E. The average age at death, has greatly increased, particularly during the past thirty years. This increase is due to the reduction in the mortality rate among persons under middle age, especially among infants and children, which has more than balanced the slower but consistent increase in the mortality rate of persons in middle and old age." (Recent Social Trends, p. 658) American people suffer annually from over 3,000,000 cases of communicable disease, perhaps one-half of which is unnecessary. These diseases cause about 15% of the country's total deaths. And in addition, permanent disability handicaps many for life as a result of this unnecessary sickness. "From 50 to 75% of our crippled children owe their condition to infantile paralysis and tuberculosis. Blindness, damaged hearts and kidneys, and increased susceptibility to other infections follow in the wake of communicable diseases among children." (White House Conference Report.) The average age of man has extended from 49.1 in 1901 to 54.3 years in 1930. The added years are the result of successful efforts to control the most deadly of the communicable diseases and of improvements in modes and standards of living. No specific efforts have so far been as successful in controlling diseases LESSON DEPARTMENT 67 peculiar to middle age and old age, or in postponing organic breakdowns that, although natural concomitants of the ageing process, are hastened by disease or undue strain. It is most probable that the causes for organic breakdown in middle and later life will be found in conditions of childhood and young adult life. Attempts to evaluate the monetary cost of preventable sickness and death with its accompanying poverty and crime reveal figures which are appalling in the aggregate. Of far greater significance, however, is the loss that human beings suffer in not being able to enjoy the happiness of good health that should be the natural inheritance of every soul. True, it sounds almost too idealistic to imagine a society in which good health prevails for all, but it is a condition which one should not be afraid to picture, for it is one toward whose realization preventive medicine has already made marvelous strides. Certainly, it does no harm to try to build up an attitude of confidence that disease can be overcome. Rather, it is imperative to the betterment of health conditions. The great need of the day is a consistent educational program aimed at raising and maintaining popular support for sound control practices in preventing disease and the alloting of resources to specific treatment. While our practicing physicians and surgeons are the ones upon whom we must rely primarily for treatment, it is quite necessary that social agencies see that professional medical service reaches many now being denied that privilege. It is to the best interests of the community to see that those people who need medical and surgical aid and who now go without that aid, receive the assistance even though it may be at public expense. The problem is one of local, county, state, and federal organization into a unified health program. Public health clinics are being established throughout the country. And there is an increasing trend among _ industrial plants to provide employees with a complete medical service. For example, it is reported that "the United Steel Corporation alone, at the end of 1925, employed 233 company surgeons, physicians, and interns; 117 outside surgeons on a salary, 251 nurses, including those in training, 62 visiting nurses, and 40 sanitary inspectors." (United States Steel Corporation Bulletin, No. 11). The service is slowly being extended to the family of the worker as well as the employees. "Industrial medical service provides an application of the insurance principle without any substantial use of funds for the overhead cost of insurance. The average cost of the service in 447 plants in 1924 varied from $4.30 per person in large plants to $7.53 in small plants." (Recent Social Trends) The activities of the United States federal government in the preservation of health and prevention of disease is being gradually extended. In 1932-33 twenty-five agencies were included in the federal health program with a yearly budget of $13,130,261. The twenty-five bureaus and agencies included such institutions as the Public Health Service, the Children's Bureaus, and the Narcotics division, all of which are still existent. Likewise, the health department of state governments is being extended, and is doing more effective work in the control of communicable diseases. The average per capita expenditure in 48 states for the year, 1930, was 12 cents. But, county 68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and municipal health organizations, being closer to the daily lives of the people, have made probably the greatest advancements. More fulltime health officers are maintained, and possible sources of health contamination are being eliminated. Naturally the per-capita expenditure increases with every extension of service. A development of far greater significance is the fact that the operation of hospitals by federal, state, and local governments has been increasing in recent years, until in 1931, 73% of all hospital service was provided by public agencies. The cost of such service, from $1 to $2 per capita, is not burdensome because it is spread among all the people. But if the entire cost were placed on the individuals, probably it would be too great to be borne. (Recent Social Trends) Naturally our interest centers primarily in the possibilities of the future that our support may be intelligently placed. Evidence seems to support the idea of an extension of government health service in the form of school health service, public health nursing, free distribution of serums, and other preventive products, treatment by competent physicians, and hospitalization at public expense or a reasonable fee. A case in point is the Province of Saskatchewan, Canada, where some thirty-two rural municipalities have employed physicians with tax funds who are available to all the people. Without further cost. Another trend is toward the organization of medical centers, both private and public, offering a complete medical service to individuals for a reasonable monthly payment. It is probable that if adequate medical service is made available to those families whose incomes are under $2,000 a year, additional financial aid must be given by some governmental agency. It is true, communities are realizing the great economic and social losses being annually sustained needlessly because of inadequate public health provision. That a better solution must be reached is evident. As individuals in our several communities, it behooves us to support that scheme which best meets our needs. To the Latter-day Saints the teachings in the "Word of Wisdom," (Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 89) point the way to a life filled with a full measure of happiness and a minimum amount of ill health. To all who follow its teachings will come a belief in the tangible values of good health, and they will find the way to its maintenance clearly marked. _ Activities 1. Have some member of the class contact the nearest board of health to determine what preventive medicines and treatments may be furnished free, or at cost, to those who apply for the same. 2. Determine the type of health service which is being furnished to youth by your local schools. Wherein do parents fail to respond to the values of such service? 3. If accessible read pgs. 414-417 from the "Life of Louis Pasteur," by Rene Radot, in which will be found the story of the Alsatian boy, M. Pasteur's first case to receive his anti-toxin against rabies; and from "Microbe Hunters." by Paul de Kruif, Chapter XI for the story of the conquest of yellow fever, and Chapters III and V for sketches of Louis Pasteur and his work. A New Year to Spend! None can hoard it—all must spend it. Some will spend it wisely; others will throw it away in idleness. Twelve months from now, what will your son or your daughter have to show for the investment? L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City Preserve Your Magazines by having them permanently bound a THERE is a vast amount of valuable reference material in your Relief Society Magazine. You can preserve this material permanently and in attractive book form by having your volumes bound. SPECIAL RATE FOR QUANTITIES The Deseret News Press Pioneer Printers, Binders, Rulers When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 70 North Main st 29 Richards St. Wasatch 1812 Salt Lake City, Utah What About It? In the near future you will become a year older over night... Your insurance age will move up one more notch, and it will never move back again. Each notch brings you a higher rate! Why? Because your chance of living gradually decreases— Your chance of obtaining Beneficial Life Insurance becomes less each year and your premium cost increases— GIVE THIS MATTER YOUR SERIOUS CONSIDERATION NOW! See a Beneficial Representative and Start the New Year—On The Safe Side— parrot INSUWRANCE HOME OFFICE a7 COMPANY r= Sait LAKE City, UTAH GEO. J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRES. & DIR. ASHBY D. BOYLE, ATTORNEY LEO E. PENROSE, ASST. SECRETARY E. T. RALPHS, DIRECTOR VIRGIL H. SMITH, ASST. SECRETARY ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT & DIRECTOR J. REUBEN CLARK JR., 1ST VICE-PRES. & DIR. DAVID O. MCKAY, 2ND VICE-PRES. & DIR. AXEL B. C. OHLSSON, SECRETARY & DIRECTOR EARLE W. PIERCE, ASST. TREASURER EUGENE P. WATKINS. SUP. R. E. LOAN DEPT. WALDO M. ANDERSON, AGENCY SUPERVISOR DR. W. R. CALDERWOOD, MEDICAL DIRECTOR JOS. FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR She RELIEF SOCIETY Magazine if HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS From Factory To You—We Solicit Your Mail Orders New Style No. 88. Lt. Weight Men’s and Ladies’ New Style $.65 No. 89. Med. Wt. Men’s and Ladies’ New style 1.10 No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles $.85 No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and New Style .85 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men’s Double Back 1.45. No. 85. Very Special Non-Run No. 80. Heavy Wt. Old Style, Double Back 1.50 No. 83. Extra Fine Silk-Rayon, Double Combed Yar. Better than Part Wool. This comes in Winter Weight Men's and Ladies' 1.65. No. 86. Extra Fine Rayon and Double Combed Yarn, Ladies’ New Style Only 1.25 Short Sleeves, Ankle Length We Mark Garments For 10c States. Style, and if Men's or Ladies'. THIS IS ALSO THE PLACE TO OUTFIT THE MISSIONARY WITH ONE OF THOSE FAMOUS RAMBOULLETTE SUITS This is one of our Specials Our famous Ramboullette Suits. Single or double Breast $18.75. Extra Pants $4.00 WE HAVE A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF HEAVY WORSTEDS AT $21.75. Extra Pants, $4.00 WE ALWAYS GIVE SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO THE MISSIONARY 14 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Creating Employment Every time you buy Pep 88 gasoline and Vico motor. Oil, you help promote the welfare of your own community. Hundreds of families receive their livelihood from employment in the manufacture and distribution of these well-known local products. MOTOR Oil PEP 88 GASOLINE UTAH OIL REFINING COMPANY Hundreds of Service Stations in Utah and Idaho When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Compare the Heat and Economy your Dollar buys when you use Blue Blaze Coal Blue Blaze Coal Company 1111 Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City No. 88. Lt. Weight Men's and Ladies' No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style, Double No. 86. Extra Fine Rayon and Double We Charge 10% Extra For Extra Sizes. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles $.86 Ladies' New Style.................. -85 Double Combed Yarn. Better in Winter Weight Men's New Please Specify When Ordering Your Bust, Trunk and Length, Whether New or Old . COMPARE THE HEAT and ECONOMY your DOLLAR buys when you use Blue Blaze Coal BLUE BLAZE COAL COMPANY Service Above All PRICE PAYSON Salt Lake Provo Ogden Price Payson Manti Crystal Palace Market Home Owned Home Operated 1st South at 3rd East—17th South at 5th East South Temple at 2nd East We Are Proud to Serve the People of Utah with UTAH GROWN—UTAH PACKED FOOD PRODUCTS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 1111 Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints VOL. XXIII FEBRUARY, 1936 No. 2 CONTENTS Ethel Reynolds Smith..........Frontispiece Death's Angel........Bertha A. Kleinman 69 Two of America's Greatest Men................ 2.000 George W. Middleton 71 Pearl....................Judge Nephi Jensen 76 Ethel Reynolds Smith..............Julia A. F. Lund 77 Dear Mother........Linnie Fisher Robinson 80 Happenings............Annie Wells Cannon 81 Sally Ollerton 82 E'scalante Land.......Minnie J. Hardy 83 Linnie Parker 83 Farth and Stars Rosannah C. Irvine 84 Not Bread Alone..........Elsie C. Carroll 96 What Knowledge is Most Worth?............Eleanor S. Muir 101 A Thanksgiving Radio Message...........Sinah B. Reid 102 Gaily We do Our Work.......... 60 Virginia B. Jacobsen 105 Magazine Drive............. We God's Hand Deth Guide..107....Mary P. Thorley 108 No Time for Bitter Thoughts............Josephine Gardner Moench 114 Relief Society Conference (Concluded).............115 Notes from the Field.......Julia A. F. Lund 123 Prose and Poetry....Della Adams Leitner 126 Sarah Lyman 126 Notes to the Field 27 Editorial: Abraham Lincoln.....129 130 Dr. Ellis Reynolds Smith.......... 131 "Minnequa Historical Bulletin'.......... 131 England Mourns..............Lesson Department......... 132  Joseph R. Meservy 135 Before the Light Goes Out..Mary E. S. Abel 136 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.: Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine We do a large and thriving business and number our customers by the thousands, QUALITY FURNITURE—PERSONAL SERVICE—HELPFUL CREDIT. Out of the high rent district. We own our own building and buy in car loads for cash, taking advantage of all discounts. Buy now and save. GRANITE FURNITURE COMPANY 1050 East 21st South—Sugar House NATURE'S MOST PERFECT FOOD AND ECONOMICAL TOO PURE AT THE SOURCE FOR HOME DELIVERY—PHONE ARDEN DAIRY TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS Of Superior quality and workmanship manufactured for the SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE And sold at prices defying competition. When ordering from us remember we Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. No. FOR LADIES No. FOR MEN 735 Light Weight Cotton Ribbed 610 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Spring Needle....$1.10 703 Flat Weave Spring Needle Lee 662 Men's Non-Run Rayon 1.25 750 Non-Run Rayon mn 602 Extra Fine Quality Lisle... 919 Ribbed Light Weight >. 614 Med. Wt. Ex. Quality 762 Non-Run Rayon Super Quality. 5 620 Men's Light Wt. Double Back 792 Fine Quality Cotton Lisle 664 Med. Hvy. Wt. Cot. Double Back 1.50 714 Medium Weight Cotton.... A 660 Silk and Wool Medium Weight.... 1.95 734 Fine Non-Run Rayon. 6111 50% Wool Heavy Weight 2.95 Garments Marked Upon Request. 10c Per Pair Extra Prices Subject to Change Without Notice. 20% Extra Charge for Sizes Over 46. Do not fail to specify New or Old Style and if for Man or Woman. Also state if long or short sleeve, short or long legs are wanted. Give accurate Bust Measurements, Height and Weight. Samples Sent Upon Request. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah—OLDEST KNITTING STORE IN UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Be Sure Your Children Get Bread at its Best ALWAYS ASK FOR For Fisher’s VITAMIN "D" BREAD WHITE AND WHOLE WHEAT FISHER'S WHITE, SLICED, FRENCH BREAD, OR RYE also FISHER'S ROLLS AND CAKES Baked by the Master Bakers AMERICAN LADY — BAKING COMPANY — The Large Home-Owned Bakery SALT LAKE CITY - in natural colors. Free Garden Book NOW READY This book contains 116 pages fully illustrated—many subjects Just brimful of just that vital information so ' useful to every Orchardist, Gardener, or Home Owner. Write Today For Your Copy Porter-Walton Co. Seed and Nursery Specialists Salt Lake City, Utah MOTOR-DRIVEN BRUSH LIGHT—EASY TO HANDLE AGREEABLY QUIET This sensational new Eureka with motordriven brush is designed to meet the requirements of those who desire a motordriven brush but recognize the necessity of "High Vacuum" (powerful suction) for the thorough removal of embedded dirt. Unnecessary weight and awkward size have been carefully avoided. It is quiet-—agreeably quiet. The demonstration! It is spectacular — sensational — thrilling. Embedded soda fairly '"'boils'? From the rug. Sand dances— how it dances! Surface litter — lint, hair and threads — are instantly removed by its motordriven brush. This new Eureka cleans faster—cleans better. $5.00 Down—Balance on Easy Terms Phone for Demonstration Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Salt Lake City, Utah THANKS— AND A PLEDGE For your splendid patronage during the past year we thank you. We pledge ourselves to another year of helpful, friendly. Service to the members of the Relief Society. We have the books needed for work and lesson study in the various departments. To members of the Relief Society we are still offering the Commentary on the Book of Mormon (regular price $4.00) at a special price of $3.00 Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764 Death's Angel By Bertha A. Kleinman Why fight Death's Angel as you would a foe, Why hold at bay a Presence so benign, When every doubt and pain and throbbing woe Is ended when he lays his hand in thine! Why fight the dark when twilight bars the west, And tenderly the hush of even-tide Would cradle you and lull you to your rest, Till morning breaks and flings her portals wide; Why shrink as from a dire calamity When through the dusk the Reaper calls his own, To crown you victor o'er adversity, And answer every yearning you have known; Why fight Death's Angel when he brings no strife, But takes your hand and points the WAY OF LIFE! ETHEL REYNOLDS SMITH The Relief Society Magazine Vou. XXIII FEBRUARY, 1936 No. 2 Two of America's Greatest Men By George W. Middleton HERE is to the mind which looks at the sweep of the centuries much to justify the belief that there is a providential undertow in all human history; and that underneath the apparent will of the individual, and the overt edict of the nation, there is an unseen hand playing the game on the great checker board of time, and directing its issue to a purposeful end. Who could have imagined that the little group of colonies forming what we now see to be the eastern fringe of our country was destined to become the greatest, most powerful, wealthiest, and most intelligent nation in the world? But all that has happened, and there is yet plenty more to come. England had extended her conquests to the outposts of the world. Lord Clive had subjugated two hundred and fifty million Hindus, whose treasures were pouring into the vaults of English bankers and in perfect reassurance the English turned their attention to the new world, expecting to reap another bountiful harvest from the colonies which they had planted and acquired. But right here England came up against one of those providential characters who was born to turn the tide of history in a new direction, and to cause monarchs to topple from their thrones as meteors plunge down from the starry vault. GEORGE WASHINGTON was born at Bridges Creek, Westmoreland County, Virginia, in the year 1732. His father was a wealthy planter, and the Washingtons were rated among the elite of the colony. The father died when George was but 11 years old. The elder half brother Lawrence conceived a great liking for his sturdy young half brother, and invited him to come to Mount Vernon to live. At Belvoir, three or four miles distant, lived a family of the English aristocracy by the name of Fairfax. Old Lord Fairfax had run away from a tragic love affair in his native England and sought the solitude of the American colonies for peace of mind. Lawrence Washington had married one of the Fairfax girls, so there was a close family tie between the Washingtons and the Fairfaxes. George Washington grew into a sturdy self-reliant youth, endowed with a great fund of common sense, and a character like the rigid oak that grew from the soil of his native Westmoreland. Old Lord Fairfax developed a great liking for the boy. And took him into his employ as one 72 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the surveying crew to mark out the boundaries of his great estate, which embraced nearly all of Culpepper County. Washington's education was limited, because no high schools or colleges were available to him. But he was thorough in everything he did, GEORGE WASHINGTON and later in life he developed a fine penmanship, and an enviable literary style. The French occupied the country of the Great Lakes to the north, and as their colonies spread they began to swarm down into the Ohio Valley. But England and the English colonies claimed this country too. Old Governor Dinwiddie looked about for a person of discretion and courage whom he could send over the mountains with a message to the French commandant at the head waters of the Ohio. Although George Washington was only 21 years old, he was chosen for this very important errand. Through much hardship and difficulty, he and Christopher Gist made their way over the mountains and back, and when George Washington's report was reduced to writing it was thought so highly of that it was forwarded to the mother country, and printed in all the papers. Soon the French and Indian war came on and Washington was entrusted with the command of the militia from his native province. The story of Braddock's defeat is known to every school boy. The God-like courage and coolness displayed by Washington in the face of that terrible disaster were noted with pride by his fellow colonists. One preacher said in his sermon that he believed that God had raised up this heroic young man for some great service to his country. (GROWING out of the French and Indian war was the claim of the mother country that it had the right to tax the colonies, and impose such trade restrictions on them that they would be a source of increasing revenue. But England discovered to her dismay that a new breed of men had come on the scene. The group which had rallied around Washington, their great heroic leader, had breathed the breath of freedom from the air flung from Atlantic waves, and took the inspiration of the lofty mountain peaks and the great still places of the mighty untamed empire which stretched away to the setting sun. 2 GROUP of less than three million people, fully one-third of whom were in sympathy with the enemy, fought the most powerful nation on the globe, and made them sue for peace. Washington said repeatedly that God fought their battles, and the unbiased student of history must agree with him. There were times, as at Valley Forge. When the cause of America was held in the palm of the hand of this one great heroic man, and one faltering thought on his part would have re- TWO OF AMERICA'S GREATEST MEN 73 duced the struggle for liberty to dismal disaster, but he did not falter. God knew whom He could trust. FTER the surrender of Cornwallis at Yorktown, we see Washington back on his plantations at Mount Vernon. He had married Martha Custis, the wealthiest widow in the colonies, and her great fortune enabled him to give the eight years, without compensation, to his country, which won the cause of liberty. He wished now only for peace, and the privilege of making things grow from the soil. He was the greatest farmer that America has ever produced. But his country called again, and he sat for four months in Independence Hall and helped to construct the constitution of our country. E next see him riding through floral arches, with young ladies spreading roses in his pathway as he went to be sworn in as our first President. Huis great character gave that stability that was necessary for the launching of the new Ship of State. The English historian, John Richard Green, in commenting on him said, "No nobler figure ever stood in the forefront of a nation's life." He saw the problems of our country with a clarity that in the light of history seems prophetic. In his farewell address he plead with his people to steer clear of the entangling alliances of Europe. In bitter regret we have learned the significance of that wise counsel, which. Applies now with more emphasis than it did at the time of its delivery. AFTER the launching of the ship of state by our revolutionary fathers, there was great admiration for the new venture in popular government. The myth of the divine right of kings was dead, and monarchs began to tumble from their thrones. French officers and soldiers who had fought for the cause of America, went back home to demand freedom for their own people. But there was no such background of stability on the part of their citizenship as the colonies of America had produced, and no George Washington to lead them. They went through a most terrible orgie of blood, and ended up in a dictatorship almost as tyrannical as the one it had supplanted. With the concessions that had to be made to hold all sections of the United States in the compact of the union, it was found that certain compromises agreed to were most vital in their significance, and in the future years were to strike at the very heart of the union itself. God raised up one great character to establish the union, and in the hour of peril He raised up another one to preserve it. BRAHAM LINCOLN was born in a little log house near Hodgensville, Kentucky, in the year 1809. His people were classed among the poor whites of the south. But little is known about his mother as she died young, and at a time when no significance was attached to the name. But his father was a shiftless illiterate man who never aspired to any home better than a log hut. The Lincolns knew bitter poverty as they migrated from one section to another, and carved new farms out of the wilderness. The mother of Abraham Lincoln was buried near Gentryville, Indiana in a coffin made by a whipsaw from the forest trees. In due course of time a stepmother was installed, and this was the greatest streak of luck that ever came to Tom Lineoln. Sally Bush Lincoln brought clothing and bedding and furniture to the forlorn [Tincoln ee ABRAHAM LINCOLN home in the wilderness, but of much greater significance than these she brought a great Christian heart, which went out in solicitude to the motherless children. From the first she developed a sympathy and love for the boy Abraham, and did everything in her power to aid him in his struggle for an education. Schools were of the poorest. Probably six months was the limit of his attendance at school. But he made a great effort at educating himself. He borrowed books from his neighbors, and read and studied by the flickering fire light. HE year Abraham Lincoln came of age, he helped the family in their final move to Coles County, Illinois, and then went out to meet the world on his own initiative. At New Salem he became a clerk in a store, the postmaster, and later the county surveyor. He gained the admiration of the younger set by defeating Jack Armstrong, a noted wrestler in a bout on the village green. He was generous and just and kind to everybody, and he soon hecame a great favorite. There was a love affair between him and a fine young lady by the name of Ann Rutledge, and the untimely death of Ann almost unhinged his reason. He was elected to the State Legislature a number of times in succession, during which time he studied law, and in due course of time he became one of the leading attorneys of the state, with his headquarters at Springfield. He married an aristocratic young lady by the name of Mary Todd from the bluegrass region of Kentucky. Much has been said about this unusual match, but after years of study from authentic histories, and interviews with prominent people in southern Illinois who were intimately acquainted with the Lincolns, I arrived at the conclusion that Mary Todd made Abraham Lincoln President, and that she was quite as providential as he was. A chronic brain disease which resulted in insanity even before her husband's martyrdom gave the public the wrong impression of her. Slavery had been in existence in America from the days of the Jamestown colony, but since the invention of the cotton gin, the plantations of the south, and the negroes who worked them had become very valuable. Four millions of black people were held to involuntary service. The slave power of the south assumed great proportions. It dominated the government, electing its presidents, and controlling its legislative and judicial departments. It represented billions of dollars of money value, and was striving in every conceivable way to extend its borders, so that it could maintain its 74 RELIED SOCIETY MAGAZINI: TWO OF AMERICA'S GREATEST MEN 75 supremacy. Great iniquity developed in it, and it became very revolting to all those who were not personally and financially interested in it. In the providences of God the great Mississippi valley was-opened up for settlement. This is the finest block of high class agricultural land on the globe. Millions of people flocked in there, and made new homes. It was here that America found its conscience, and Abraham Lincoln made vocal that awakening. N 1858 he was pitted against Douglas for the United States senate. _They fought out the issues of the campaign in a series of joint debates, which attracted the 'attention of the civilized world. Lincoln was defeated, but he drew out from Douglas statements which were to come back and defeat him two years later when the presidency was the prize sought for. When Lincoln was elected President there were nearly twice as many votes against him as for him, but they were divided: among Douglas and Breckenridge and Bell, and so they neutralized one another. It seemed a strange experiment for our country to pick this country lawyer up from the circuit of southern IIlinois and put him at the helm of the ship of state when she was on the breakers. But in due course of time the American people discovered that a master hand was at the wheel. Secession' had been a longdrawn threat, but now it became an actual fact, with the powerful south all in deadly revolt against the government. Great powers over the water that had watched with ever increasing jealousy this rising power of the new world, were now jubilant with the thought that the United States was going to pieces. Problems of external and internal diplomacy were most perplexing and had to be handled with the greatest of delicacy. Firmness and determination were most urgently needed. The new president was found to possess just those qualities which were necessary to handle the situation. When you weigh him up against any and all of the aspirants for the presidency at that time there was not one of them that came anywhere near to his class. It was not the whim of any political clique, it was not the caprice of a minority of the electorate, it was God who called Abraham Lincoln, and placed him at the helm of the Ship of State at that critical hour to do a work that no other man of his generation could have done. At the very moment of the acme of his power he was struck down by the bullet of an assassin, and his precious blood was consecrated to the cause of our great country, to cement all its parts together we hope for all the years to come. HAT a heritage is the memory of these two great men! One thristened in silken robes and reared in the lap of luxury; the other recruited from the ranks of poverty and toil and humiliation. And yet they were equally patriotic, equally firm, equally unselfish, equally honest, equally courageous. It was said of Washington that he was "Best among the great and greatest among the good," and John Hay, the private secretary and most intimate friend of Lincoln, said that with all his foibles he believed he was the greatest character since Jesus Christ. One Pearl By Judge Nephi Jensen ND so you paid ten thousand for this old farm," remarked Harry Hemingway with the slow drawl, characteristic of the men of the Blue Mountain state, who measure their words as well as weigh them. "Yes," assented John Smith who stood just inside the gate to his newly acquired Vermont home. And before Hemingway's cynical chuckle subsided, Smith added with apparent enthusiastic pride, "I would have given ten times ten thousand if I had it and had not been able to close the deal for less money." Hemingway laughed as heartily as his New England staid conservatism would permit. When Hemingway's subdued laughter got under control, he ventured to inquire, "What is the peculiar attraction about this particular farm?" "Since you want to know, I will tell you. Some years ago I became rather fond of Emerson's poetry. Of course you will wonder what poetry has to do with the attractiveness of a farm. I admit that the relationship is rather remote. But one day while I was in a sort of mystical mood, I read these lines from Emerson: "T go to seek my native hearthstone Bosomed in yon glen alone, A secret nock, a pleasant land Whose grove the frolic fairies planned, Where arches green the live-long day Echo the blackbird's roundelay, And brutal feet have never trod— A spot that's sacred to thought and God." "The serene charm and rhythm of the lines impressed me profoundly. They sent me into a reverie of thought. A moving picture of familiar landscapes, and oft seen and cherished dales and coves, passed through my mind. I became obsessed with the desire of finding a spot of earth that imparts the delight of perfect solitude. I immediately forgot other concerns, and went in search of a place possessing the charm of peaceful serenity. For years I traveled. I searched. One day I learned that this farm was for sale. In walking over the place I came one day to a densely wooded spot near the sparkling clear creek that merrily sings hard by. I found a little perfectly secluded retreat within this clump of trees. I entered it, and a spirit of prefect peace and serenity took possession of me. Every vestige of discord left me, and I felt the deep beauty of the 'solemnity of eternity.' "I determined: then and there to purchase the farm at any price within my reach." "That is the strangest motive for buying a farm I ever heard of," observed Hemingway dryly. "T suppose it is," assented Smith. "But the strangest part of my story is yet to be told. You will laugh a side-shaking laugh when you hear it. One day after purchasing the place, while I was making a close examination of this sylvan nook, I discovered a precious pearl near the edge of the water. I eagerly picked it up and took it to the house. You will hardly believe me when I tell you that when I entered the house with the gem I experienced the same infinite peace that I discovered in the ONE PEARL 77 little grove. I immediately concluded that the pearl actually radiated peace and contentment." "That is quite a spooky story, I should say," rejoined Hemingway with a chuckle. "Spooky or not spooky, it is true. Moreover, I have discovered that no matter where I go, if I have this pearl with me, my soul is calm and serene." "Well, that is a story,' Hemingway commented with a_ skeptical twist to his intonations. He walked away from Smith with the incipient notion that Smith was a little odd. As he thought about the strange story he had just heard, he found himself resorting to a harsher word in his description of Smith. He concluded that Smith was a fanatic. W HEN Hemingway got home, he told his wife the strange story of the new found pearl. Of course he embellished the narrative with superlative adjectives; and punctuated the recital with cynical chuckles. In a few days the peculiar story was the common property of the neighborhood. Dame gossip _became the efficient publicity agent for Hemingway. And she was not parsimonious in the distribution of her wares. As the story sped from lip to lip, it took on an ever-increasing number of descriptive titiles for the quiet, cultured and unassuming Mr. Smith. It was not long before he commenced to observe an ill-disguised attempt on the part of his neighbors to conceal their frigidity toward him. As he passed them on the street, he at times noticed rather curious stares, the raising of eyebrows, and furtive whispered comments. Acrid he migrated to the West. Slander soon augmented the mischief wrought by ruthless rumor, and unoffending Smith commenced to be harrassed, ostracized, and even persecuted. His persistent aloofness from the activities of the local church, together with his well-known pronounced convictions, and _ rather original ideas of what is vital in religion, only added to the disapprobation in which he was now held by the community. Although he was a man of fine literary attainments, unimpeachable probity, of retiring habits, and unobtrusive in his religious predilections, he found himself to be the unpleasant victim of a cruel mal-social adjustment. He was compelled to sell his farm for little or nothing. WHE his family, consisting of a refined wife and two children, On the long and weary trek westward, they were ill-fed, afflicted at times, and subjected to the harsh rigors of the wild, trackless plains. Untamed savages lurked in the way and threatened their peace and menaced their lives. But they slowly and courageously traveled toward the setting sun. They were sustained and inspired by the sublime faith that their wearysome journey was but a brief chapter in their eternal development. This precious faith was kept alive by the Pearl they carried with them. When they reached their destination, Smith set to work with renewed energy and characteristic persistence to establish a new home. By dint of hard work, wise planning, thrift, and frugality, he soon made his home in an inviting little farming community pleasant and comfortable. In a few years wide-spreading 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE green pastures, waving grain fields, and lawns and orchards added to the profit, comfort and charm of their western home. And sheep, together with a snug deposit at the bank, justified Smith and his family in looking to the future with comforting assurance of continued plenty. UT adversity never abandons his destructive work. Just at the time when fortune smiled most pleasantly on the Smith home, ruthless adversity was just around the corner, planning wide-spread, economic devastation. A financial cataclysm shook the economic structure of our fabulously rich country from center to circumference; and left an industrial paralysis in which millions of Americans walked the streets in rags, shivered in the cold, and opened their unfed mouths and cried for bread in the presence of rotting abundance. It was one of history's most ghastly tragedies. The bank in which Smith had deposited his savings was forced into liquidation. When the lawyers and receivers got their shares, Smith received a paltry five hundred for his In the meansubstantial thousands. Herds of cattle time he was compelled to meet his notes at the bank given for money borrowed to increase his herds and extend his much prized acres. Foreclosure followed foreclosure until Smith's title to his home hung in the balance. CHRISTMAS Eve, 1893, found Smith sitting near the open fireplace in his library. The lights were out; and the flickering flame on the hearth revealed rows upon rows of highly prized books that had been collected and read through the years. Smith leaned toward the fire and held his head between his hands. He was in deep brown study. His wife sat near. Her tresses were now streaked with gray. Smith started to speak. He hesitated. He was afraid what the cruel effect of what he was about to say would have upon his wife. He started again. "We just can't save the home." "T know it," she mused cheerily. "All is lost." "All is not lost," she retorted with a heart-touching firmness, as tears of gratitude came into her eyes. "We still have everything. We have the Pearl of Great Price." Ethel Reynolds Smith By Julia A, F. Lund T has been said that the aim of every woman should be to attain great, glorious, well rounded womanhood—then let come what may—sisterhood or motherhood. It is rare indeed that one attains to both with so great a degree of perfection as may be claimed for our beloved Ethel. She was one of the youngest of the group of women whom President Clarissa S. Williams called to her hoard, and the history of Relief Society for the last fifteen years tells how devoted she has been to the work. Ethel Reynolds was born October 23, 1889. Her mother was Amelia Schofield, and her father the scholar, writer and "defender of the faith,' George Reynolds. Her training was that of the average young Latter-day Saint girl in Salt Lake City; but more than most young women she drew her education from life experience as well as from formal institutions of learning. T-a very early period in her life she began her work in the Church, first in the Historian's Ofhee. It was while she was so engaged that she married Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, November 2, 1908. Though only nineteen years of age, she assumed the duties of wife to Brother Smith and mother to his two little daughters. These little ones, whose mother had died, were always objects of tender care and devotion to Ethel. She is the mother of nine children, two of whom were born after her call to the General Board of Relief Society. From the very beginning of her married life, Ethel kept her mind active through intellectual pursuits and association with her scholarly husband. She is a beautiful example of John Dewey's maxim, to "learn to do things by doing them." Perhaps the organization to which she gave most attention prior to her Relief Society work was that of the Genealogical Society. She was chosen by Brother Willard Young as his assistant in the Salt Lake Genealogical work. OON after she was called to be a member of the General Board of Relief Society, she remarked that some one had said to her she should not accept any public position as her home duties were sufficient to engross all her time and attention. Her answer was typical; she said, "You claim some periods for recreation, as it is the right of everyone to do. My Relief Society work will be my recreation. I shall take no more time for it than you do for your parties, theatres, etc., and I shall be a better wife and mother for this." Her willingness to serve in whatever form the call came, her quick intellect, her keen understanding of the principles of the Gospel, her love for the Church and people, made her a great power for good on the Board. She was a member of more committees than any other one member, and very few traveled as extensively in visiting the Stakes. Whether in consultation in lesson work, or in public address, she demonstrated the same thoroughness of preparation and clearness of vision. Her brilliant mind and sincere eloquence always made a great appeal. She was chosen 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to speak upon the subject "Lucy Mack Smith, the Mother of the Prophet," at the Relief Society Conference, April, 1930. It was a masterly address, and through it could be read her own experience of a faithful wife and devoted mother. Measured in terms of service, Ethel has given a great portion of her life to Relief Society, and her place is secure in the hearts of her co-workers. Somewhat fragile in body, she has always had the tendency to over-tax her physical strength. Life holds so much for her, and she must have health and strength to meet these most precious years with her husband and children. In order to safeguard her health, she must relinquish some of her cherished duties, and among these, that of a member of the General Board of Relief Society. Ethel realizes that all study and all experience should help her to acquire living values, and with this knowledge, make adjustments that enable her to prepare to take part efficiently, intelligently and responsibly in the home circle, community life and the public affairs of the Church, where she fills so large a place with her lovely family and gifted husband. She will "ever hold the General Board and Relief Society in her heart, and they will always have a prayer for her. DEAR MOTHER By Linnie Fisher Robinson Dear Mother, here's a valentine So many years in making; It's tied and dyed in things I've learned~ And hallowed with hearts' waking. It's decked with buds, those other days You pointed to eternal flowers; And now, because of you, my ways Lead on through fragrant bowers. It wears a heart—-my own to you— You taught me how to give; There's so much joy in life, because, You taught me how to live. And last of all it holds a thought, "To one I love," in gravest manner, How many times the thought that you Love me, has been my banner. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon EBRUARY—A whirl of snow marks the winter's passing. A whirl of gayety ushers in the spring. QUEEN ELENA imploring divine aid for Italy deposited her own and the King's wedding rings in an urn at the tomb of the unknown soldier. Some 8,000,000 women, including Donna Rachale Mussolini made the same sacrifice. Thus was raised $80,000,000 to the cause of the war. MB:: CLARENCE GAEQUE of London has offered an annual $1,000 scholarship for an American woman to study in Europe to gain an international understanding for the promotion of peace. MBS. ELIZABETH LONG, 102 years old, of Edmon, Pa., died last month, just after she said to her grandson, who had been reading to her from the Bible, "You know dying never entered my mind." ANNE HARDING, popular film actress has decided to stage a series of children's stories including fairy tales and children's classics, designed solely for juvenile audiences. HELEN HAYES has completely conquered the New York audiences by her recent characterization of "Victoria Regina." The years encompassed by the play, from childhood to the Diamond Jubilee, require miracles in make-up and costuming which Miss Hayes combines with her consummate art of acting to perfection. KATHERINE HEPBURN again heads the list of outstanding film stars. This year for her portrayal of "Alice Adams." ILY PONS, since producing "1 Dream Too Much," is acclaimed throughout the music world as the greatest living coloratura soprano. [ UCREZIA BORIT has announced her retirement from opera at the close of this. Season. She is a member of the directorate of the Metropolitan opera and the only member ever to sing a role. RUDIE SCHOOP, a little Swiss girl imitated a tree in a windstorm, and produced such laughter among her playmates that she determined her career was comic dancing. Now with an organized troup she has become a favorite entertainer throughout Europe. ARGARET FLINT, of Mississippi, is the winner of the $10,000 prize offered by Dodd Mead and Pictorial Review for the best novel in 1935. "The Old Ashburn Place" is the title. BESS STREETER ALDRICH'S new book, "Spring Came On Forever," is another charming saga of Nebraska life brought up to date. LLEN CHASE again presents a story of the sea faring people of the. Maine coast called 'Mary Peters." ARIE MEDORA SHORES, a former Salt Lake girl, age 16, has had a novel of adventure and intrigue accepted by the publishers. Sally Bush By Fay Ollerton FOUND this story of Sally Bush in an old diary in southern Utah. It was told by a woman who had been born on a farm near Little Pigeon Creek, Indiana just two years before Tom Lincoln, his wife Nancy, a daughter Sarah, and a boy Abe built their winter camp on the creek. Fourteen years the Lincolns lived on their Little Pigeon Creek land; the little girl across the county line was sixteen years of age when they moved away. She knew her neighbors, the "Linkuns" well; so well that years later in another pioneer land where the soil was neither black nor deep, but red sand on rocks, she ° told stories of neighbor "Linkun" and his family. Strangely, she who had seen him so often, never knew that the solemn boy who helped her father with the butchering, who passed her barefooted and silent in the summer woods, or sat near her in the Pigeon Creek church was Abraham Lincoln, the President martyred in far off Washington when she was struggling to build a second home in an arid land. She was too worn and isolated in southern Utah's Dixie to connect the lad with the martyr. This woman, married a Cragun, who was a follower of Brigham Young. Of her large family only one, a daughter Martha, preserved the family saga. In disposition, Martha Cox (by marriage) was not unlike Sally Bush. All her adult life she worked to help her children and those of her husband by another marriage. After she had conquered herself, she tried to help the desert children to gentler ways. She pioneered school teaching in Nevada when that state was a land of desperados and thwarted gold seekers. And she went into Mexico to help the children of a detachéd people. FOUND her diary this past year, three years after Martha fhad written her last entry in a wavering hand when she was a tired but still curious old woman. Near the beginning of her story—in the firm hand of youth, she wrote: "The Lincolns moved into Indiana and took a farm near my grandfather's. They were situated on the opposite sides of the county line. My mother told us stories of this lazy neighbor "Linkun" as she knew him. She sometimes referred to him as "Old lazy Linkun" whose children took parched corn to school for luncheons—Mother said that the "Linkun's" farm was left to grow up to blackberry vines and sumachs. She told us that he grew tired of the life of a' widower, borrowed a suit of clothes and a pair of boots from a friend who offered the loan, and went across the river into Kentucky, bringing home a wife who came under the impression that she was marrying a man who owned a farm and slaves. When she reached his home, a floorless, windowless hut and saw that his only servants were the thinly clothed children, her first thought was to return home. But as she gazed at the melancholy face and sockless feet of Nancy Lincoln's little boy, she rolled up her sleeves and said, 'I'll stay for the sake of this boy.' SALLY BUSH 83 "My mother never learned who the Lincolns were—and not until long years afterwards when I read the private life of Lincoln did I learn who were the originals of my mother's story, and that the sad faced boy who moved the heart of the stepmother was that of him who became the martyred President. I wish my mother had known it while she lived." Oh, Sally Bush! What a treasure trembled in the balance that day while you made your decision, and by it forever linked your name with that of the great President. QOGF OBS ROSE POSE CO SF COGF COSGE ESCALANTE LAND By Minnie J. Hardy O'er dusty deserts vast and gray, A brown robed Padre blazed the way; Through mighty canyons, roughly piled, Explored a country, vast and wild, And while his men sought food and cheer Brave Escalante rested here. This fertile valley, still asleep Was pressed by weary sandaled feet: There wierd, fantastic cliffs about Gave back the soldier's lusty shout As with the first, faint rays of dawn The dauntless Padre journeyed on. Long ages passed, midst sun and rain Before another white man came, A man of courage, faith and power, Who treasured nature's priceless dower; Then here, these friendly peaks among, This vale was blessed by Brigham Young. Sweet, sun-kissed valley: tranquil, still, Where Beauty smiles from every hill, Kind neighbors their good will impart With helping hand and loving heart, In Sorrow's hour of joyous feast They live as did the gentle priest. O! May grim Time forever spare This lovely homeland, bright and fair, And sheltered here from worldly strife May these friends live the simple life. Give to their neighbors all their hest. And gladly greet the stranger guest. The Padre prayed in foreign tongue To the same God as Brigham Young, His people seek the path he trod And are thrice blessed by the same God, Health, love and joy, their's to command In wondrous Escalante Land. JUST BELIEVE By Linnie Parker lf you believe in happiness, It's bound to come to you— It's believing in our dreams, I guess, That makes our dreams come true. For though the world is white with snow, We still believe in Spring, We still believe that grass will grow, Believe that birds will sing; And though the skies are gray and drear Instead of brilliant blue, We still believe that theyll be clear In just a day or two. And so it is with happiness— Believe in it—and lo! Our sorrows will grow less and less, Our joys will grow and grow! Spring doesn't make the song, we find, As much as song makes Spring— And joy will follow close behind Tf we'll believe and sing. So when the clouds hang overhead And hearts just have to grieve— Remember that there's joy ahead if we will just believe! Earth and Stars By Rosannah C. Irvine A PLAY IN ONE ACT. THREE SCENES Cast of Characters Norma Lewis, afterwards NorMA DurFFIN. She ls about twenty-three years old, with a buoyancy and sweetness which are almost submerged at the present time by baffled hopes. Jimmy DurFin, Norma's sweetheart, afterward her husband. He ts about twenty-four years old, but in the first two scenes appears much older. He looks and feels like a derelict, and sometimes finds himself acting like one. Miss Mary Morton, a welfare worker with an understanding heart. Mrs. NANn Bowers, a woman who loves to give. SCENE 1 The curtain rises on a quiet corner of a city park. Norma is discovered sitting on a bench. Her clothes are well made and in good style, but are shabby. Her face is rather beautiful in spite of the effects of hunger and suffering which show plainly through her makeup. She is neat and clean. She glances anxiously around as if watching for someone. She looks sad and disheartened. In a moment or two after the curtain rises, Jimmy enters. Jimmy, is shabby, unshaved, and undernourished. He is-marked with defeat and despair. He has a sullen, hang-dog expression, combined with a furtive, hunted look in his eyes. Norma—Hello, Jimmy. I'd just about given you up. What's the matter? You look excited. Jimmy—(Throws himself on the bench at her side. Irritably,) Im not excited. I'm tired. I've been working. Norma—(Amazed) Oh Jimmy! Have you really got work? Is it steady? What kind of work is it? Jimmy—(Trying to master his feverishness) It was only a little job, but the man felt sorry for me I guess and gave me five bucks. I think I can get some more when I go after it again. (He speaks as if he had learned a piece by heart.) Norma—(Delighted) I think that's wonderful, Jimmy. What kind of work is it? Engineering? Jimmy—(Shortly) No! It's a new opening. I can't talk about it yet. Norma—(anxiously) It isn't anything shady, is it? Jimmy—No! (Then fiercely) A man has a right to live! From now on, I'm going to— (His voice breaks. He lays his head on his arm, hiding his face.) Norma—(Sympathetically) What is it, Jimmy? Tell me. Jimmy—(Siruggling to gain his composure) I might as well tell you. You'd find it out anyway. I haven't had any work. I found the money. EARTH AND STARS 85 Norma—(Apprehensively) Where did you find it, Jimmy? Did you try to find the owner? Jimmy—(Crossly) Well, what do you think? No one hunts for money they drop on the street, even if they ever miss it. Norma— (Still unconvinced) I don't see how anyone could lose it on the street. If anyone had it out counting it, he would surely miss it. Wouldn't he? (Then easing her conscience) If you inquired, a dozen people might claim it. Let's accept it as a gift from the skies. When did you eat last, Jimmy? Jimmy—I don't know. Yesterday noon, I believe. Norma—Well, I beat you on that then. I had a long glass of milk this morning. Where did you sleep last night, Jimmy? JimmMy—On a bench in the park. (Coughs). Caught a little cold, too. NorMa—You poor kid! I thought that you slept with a night watchman or something. Jimmy—I have most of the time lately. But he's gone on his vacation now. I went there three or four nights ago, and the fellow who's taken his place told me to go and jump in the lake. So I slept in the hoos gow for two nights. Norma—(Shocked) Oh Jimmy! Jimmy—lIt's a lot better than sleeping on a bench in the park, or on a cement floor. I had a good bed there, the first I've slept in for weeks. Norma—Oh Jimmy, I didn't know things were that bad with you. Jimmy—Say, lady, you ain't heard nothin' yet. (Pause) I'm sick and tired. I'm at the end of my rope. There's plenty of money and food in the world. I'm willing to work for my share of it. (Wildly) I tell you I'm willing to work. I'll do anything. But I won't tramp the streets and starve any longer, looking for a chance to work for what I need to keep me alive. If they won't let me work I'll beat the game somehow. I can out smart some of these smart guys yet. Norma—Jimmy, I've never heard you talk that way before. What's the matter with you? You shouldn't talk that way even in fun. Jimmy—(Sullenly) I'm hungry and discouraged. That's what's the matter with me. You know well enough. And if you think that's funny, you're mistaken. I'm telling you I was never more serious in my life. I've tried to get work. I've tried to be decent and square. Where's it got me? Sleeping in jail and begging for food. And where's it got you? Norma—Well, so far we've kept our self respect. But hunger does play the dickens with one's ideals. I've been so hungry sometimes lately I could have robbed a baby's bank if I had seen one lying around handy. (Jimmy starts to say something, then changes his mind.) Jimmy—( After a pause) Well, that's that! Norma, will you marry me? Norma—(Stariled) Why Jimmy, this is so sudden. Jimmy—lI know, and I haven't a thing on earth to offer you. But I do love you. Think it over for a minute. And don't think I've gone looney. A married man has a lot better chance to get work than a single man. An unmarried man is considered a tramp, and treated like one. It's a lot easier to get on relief, too, if you're married. (Suddenly losing 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE control of himself.) Wve been treated worse than a dog. I've had doors slammed in my face by sleek, smug women with fat poodles in their arms. Norma—They spat on Jesus, you know. Someone said that God never gave anyone an impossible task to do, if they would remember Jesus and— Jimmy—(Interrupting her crossly) Oh, for pity's sake don't preach! That's more than I can bear. You talk a lot about God. What's He ever done for either of us? He's too far away to hear our prayers. He certainly isn't very fatherly. I'm all off on asking Him for anything any more. Norma—(Shocked) Jimmy! You mustn't talk like that! It's wicked. Jimmy—(Shrilly) Be quiet, I tell you! I can't stand your eternal preaching. I suppose you think it's all right to let your children starve. (Norma is too wise to argue or take offense. She realizes that his nerves are at the breaking point. She sits quietly until he has gained control of himself. For about ten seconds there ts tense silence. The emotional feeling must be sustained even though no word is spoken.) Jimmy—(Penitently) Norma, I'm sorry. This thing has got me, but I have no business taking it out on you. Especially when I had just proposed. Norma—(Laughing) And before I'd even accepted you. Any one would think you were a crotchety old man and tired of my companionship, the way you flew at me. (They burst into hysterical laughter. Sitting hand in hand, they rock back and forth laughing until they are weak.) Jimmy—(Gaining control of his emotions, speaks with difficulty.) Norma darling, will you marry me in spite of my crazy temper? (Norma, still laughing weakly, nods her head. Jimmy puts his arm around her.) ';. Tv—,, Jimmy—Come darling, brace up. You mustn't have hysterics on your Wedding day. NormMa—(Wiping her eyes, looks up at him smiling.) I think that's the craziest and sweetest proposal a girl ever had. Both of us starving. Both hysterical. No work. No money. Jimmy—(taking the five dollar bill out of his pocket and waving it before her) You forget the five bucks. Enough to buy a license and a dinner. And we'll leave the rest to fate. I'd like to give you a ring. I suppose we have to have one, don't we? Norma—(ruefully) Yes. And I pawned my last one last month to pay my rent. But we can buy one good enough for the time being at the Five and Ten. I saw some pretty ones there the other day for a quarter. Jimmy—(Ashamed) And I would like to give you one of platinum and diamonds. (He gets up abruptly and walks about. Then fiercely) And I will too. You mark my word. You'll have diamonds, and (with a wide inclusive gesture) everything you want,—and money to burn, before you're a year older. Norma—Oh, I haven't had it so hard. Not nearly so hard as you have. And I don't want fine things. I've never wanted to be rich. I'd like to have enough to keep us respectably,—and plenty to eat. I've been EARTH AND STARS 87 hungry sometimes and discouraged very often. But I've had a decent room to sleep in at least. Jimmy—Darling, you're a brick. Are you sure you don't want to back out? Norma—Certain sure. (Then dramatically, as if struck by a terrible thought.) Can it be that you want me to marry you for the sake of getting work, mister? Jimmy—(Crossly) What gave you that cock-eyed idea? You know perfectly well I've been crazy in love with you ever since the first day I saw you. Norma—lIt's mutual, darling. I'd rather be your wife than live in a palace. Jimmy—That's complimentary and comforting. But I must warn you, my dear, '"Thou art wedded to calamity." Norma—(Laughing) Now I'll tell one. Listen to this, "A pleasant companion on a journey is as good asa carriage." And I know some more, too. How's this? "The good ship Matrimony is always seaworthy provided the passengers do not rock the boat." Jimmy—(fesponding almost gaily) Well, for two starving lunatics, we're doing pretty well at repartee. Seeing we're airing our culture, so to speak, I'll say with Brutus, "Oh, ye gods, make me worthy of this noble wife." Norma—shakespeare again! Well, I'm too far gone for a come back. Let's crawl to the nearest hot dog stand, or I'll be 'remains' before I'm a bride. Jimmy—No hot dog stand for our wedding feast. I know a neat little cafe less than half a block away, where we can get a steak and ice cream. Norma—Oh darling, lead me to it! (They go out as the curtain falls.) SCENE 2: The Welfare office of Miss Mary Morton. It ts furnished with the usual office equipment, a desk, two or three chairs, an office bench, magazines, papers, and a telephone. Miss Morton is seated at her desk. She is looking over some reports, and making notes. She is plainly dressed, and is wholesome and kind. There is a long enough pause after the curtain rises for the audience to get tha atnuosphere of the place. Then Mrs. Bowers enters. She is well dressed, cheerful, and friendly. Miss Morton—(Glancing up) Hello, Nan. Sit down and excuse me for a minute, till I finish this report. (She continues her writing. Mrs. Bowers walks restlessly about. Miss Morton continues writing for a moment or two, then puts her papers away and looks up at her friend smiling. Miss Morton—Well, my dear, what's on your mind? Mrs. BowEers—Mary, I'm ina jam! The Bergers have walked out on me. Miss Morton—The Bergers? Who are they? Mrs. Bowers—Why, you know, Mary. They're the couple I've had on my place in Ferndell. And they've departed, leaving me high and dry. Some of the crops are not in yet,—and baby chicks and turkeys,—and. Everything. Oh, it's a fright! Miss Morton—Well, that is too bad. 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mrs. Bowers—(Tragically) Too bad? It's tragic! Mary, you've got to help me. Miss Morton—I? What can I do? I'm no farmer and his wife. Mrs. Bowers—Don't be silly! Get me another couple! I've simply got to have some one out there tonight. There are the cows to milk, and chickens to feed. And tonight's my turn for the water. Miss Morton—Well, I don't know what I can do. I've never happened to have a farmer couple as clients yet. Mrs. Bowers—Well, you're going to have some now. I don't care where you get them from. But get them. Miss Morton—What do you think Tam? A magician? You can't expect me to pull farmers out of a hat like rabbits, you know. Mrs. Bowers—That's exactly what I do expect you to do. Come on, Mary, be a sport. You know very well you can get any kind at any time. You've never failed yet. You just can't fail me now. Miss Mortron—Oh, can't I? Well, just watch me. (She closes her desk, takes her pocket book, puts on her hat) It's closing time and I'm off for the evening. I wish I could help you, Nan. But really I can't this time. (Norma and Jimmy enter at this moment. They appear embarrassed and awkward. Norma has a cheap ring on the third finger of her left hand. She looks almost happy. Jinumy is less dejected than he was in the first scene. He has a slight air of bravado, mingled with his former spirit of defeat.) Miss Morton—(FPleasantly) How do you do? What can I do for you? Jimmy—(Taking off his ragged hat. Diffidently.) Some one told us to come to you for help. We're out of work and have no money. Mrs. Bowers—(Gesticulating frantically behind their backs, says with her lips, Get them. They'll do. They're just what I want. Then aloud) I'm going to drive around a bit, Mary. I'll be back in fifteen minutes. I expect you to have everything fixed up for me by that time. (Exit). Miss Morton—(Sitting down at her desk again. To Jimmy) What is your name? Jrmmy—I'm James Duffin. This is my wife, Norma Duffin. (During the interview Miss Morton takes notes. Quite unobtrusively. Merely as if she were jotting down an occasional idea, and not putting her clients through an inquisition.) Miss Morron—How long have you been married? Jimmy—A little over an hour. Norma, show the lady our marriage certificate. Miss Morton—My name is Mary Morton. Most people call me Miss - Mary. Suppose you sit down. (They sit on the bench. Miss Morton takes the certificate, looks at it, and returns it to Norma who replaces it in her pocket book.) Miss Morton—Why did you get married when you had neither work nor money? Jimmy—(With an attempt at a smile) We thought that as long as we had to be miserable, we might as well be happy about it. (Pause) We understood that the chances for getting work were better if we were married. And if we were married we could go on relief. Miss Morton—Do you want to go on relief? EARTH AND STARS 89 Jimmy—No! I should say not! That's the last thing we do want to do, except die of hunger. We both thought we'd rather starve. But we discovered that's not so pleasant and heroic as it sounds. Not by a long shot. Miss Morton—What kind of work have you tried to get? Jimmy—Everything from electrical engineering to street sweeping. Miss Morton—Have you had any experience in engineering? Jimmy—(growing somewhat belligerent and sullen under the questioning) I graduated last year in electrical engineering. I was an honor student. Miss Morton—And you haven't been able to get anything along that line? Jimmy—Not a tap. Miss Morton—That's strange. What kind of work have you had? Jimmy—Just odd jobs. And then one month as dishwasher in a Chinese joint. Miss Morton—That wasn't permanent? Jimmy—I should say not. I couldn't eat the food. Miss Morton—Even though it was free? Jimmy—lIt wasn't free at that. It was-charged up against me whether I ate or not. Norma—He lost twenty-five pounds while he was there. Miss Morton—I can imagine more pleasant ways of reducing. Aren't you working either, Norma? Norma—lI haven't had anything for three months. I was companion to a lady, but she died. Her people didn't need me after that. Miss Morton—What were your duties? Norma—I read to her mostly. Answered her letters. Brushed her hair. Took care of her clothes. And made myself generally useful. Miss Morton—Have you tried to get another position? Norma—Yes, I've tried everything. But I'm not specially trained. And (in confusion) her relatives wouldn't give me a reference. Miss Morton—Why was that? NorMa—tThey accused me of stealing Miss Goodwin's jewels. Miss Morton—Muiss Abigail Goodwin of Fairview? Norma—Yes, Miss Morton. Miss Morton—Did Miss Goodwin think you had taken them? Norma—Oh no! It was after Miss Goodwin died. Miss Goodwin never would have suspected me. She would have known who took them. Miss Morton—Do you suspect some one? (During this part of the conversation, Jimmy sits staring into space.) Norma—Yes, I do. But it wouldn't do any good to say anything. It would only make things worse. Miss Morton—That is probably true. But would you mind telling me? Norma—Yourre sort of a professional, aren't you? I guess it would be like telling things to your doctor or lawyer, wouldn't it? Miss Morton—Exactly, my dear. We have to know all about a case in order to give the most help. But we don't break confidences. Norma—Well, it will be a relief to tell some one and get it off my chest. I'm sure that Miss Goodwin's niece took them, 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Miss Mortron—What makes you think that? Have you any grounds for your suspicion? Norma—Yes, but nothing that the family would believe. She took things of Miss Goodwin's several times. And her aunt knew it. She used to get awfully angry with Sally sometimes. Miss Morron—You can't prove your innocence? Norma—No. I have no proof except my word. Miss Morton—Did they prosecute you? Norma—(Bitterly) No. They said my conscience would make me suffer enough. Miss Morton—(Sympathetically) Not giving you a reference and accusing you of theft are quite a punishment. You are fortunate not to have permitted it to embitter you. Norma—Oh, but it has. Sometimes I feel desperate. But it does no good to rail against fate. I've tried to keep cheerful. But I'd certainly like to see Sally Goodwin suffer. Miss Morron—That's natural, I suppose. (Turning to Jimmy) Next to engineering what would you like to do? Jimmy—(Looks up startled. His thoughts are far away.) 1?—Oh,—I'd like to be a farmer. Miss Morton—(Surprised. She suddenly remembers Mrs. Bowers.) What! Are you a farmer? Jimmy—No, Miss Morton. I've never been on a farm in my life. But I know I'd like it. J always used to mow the lawn at home. Miss Morton—(Smiling) It's a far cry from mowing a city lawn to mowing ten acres of hay, my son. But it's a grand idea. Do you think you could do the work? Farming's no child's play. (Mrs. Bowers enters) Hello, Nan. I was hoping you'd come back soon. I want you to meet Mr. And Mrs. Jimmy Duffin. They want to goona farm. Do you think you could accommodate them? (Jimmy rises to his feet when Mrs. Bowers enters, and remains standing until she sits down, which she does now, suddenly.). Mrs. Bowers—( Astonished) Why, yes, Houdini. J believe I can. (Turning to Norma) Don't you loathe people who don't believe in Santa Claus? I've always known there was one. (To Jimmy) I have a thirty acre place about twenty miles out. It is well equipped. There's a little three roomed shack on it and a few sticks of furniture. Are you a good farmer, young man? Jimmy—(Abashed) No, Mrs. Bowers. I have never— Miss Morton—(Interrupting) No Nan. He knows less about farming than a baby. But he needs work, and he thinks he'd like farming. Mrs. Bowers—Do you know how to milk? Jimmy—A cow, do you mean? Norma—(quoting a nonsense rhyme softly) "T never saw a Purple Cow I never hope to see one; But I can tell you anyhow, I'd rather see than be one," EARTH AND STARS 9] Jimmy—(turning to her. Seriously) Gosh! So would I. [ never saw real cows but once. That was at a fair. There weren't any purple ones there. They were all kinds of yellowish brown. They were nice looking fellows. They had kind eyes. Mrs. BowErs—(Rather non-plussed) Well, here's a pretty how-do-you-do. Can you ride? Jimmy—aA horse? Mrs. Bowers—(With good humored sarcasm) What do you suppose I meant? A broom stick? Jimmy—(Embarrassed, but laughing a hitle with the others) I rode a horse once, but not for long. He was a great, tall creature, with a neck like a giraffe. Some of the fellows at school were going for a ride and they got this nag for me. I was ashamed to tell them I'd never been on a horse. I knew they'd find out soon enough. I'll never forget how far away the ground looked. I managed to stay on till we came to a little stream, and that fool horse put his: head down to drink. I went down that long neck and into the water before I knew what had happened. (They all laugh. Mrs. Bowers laughs until the tears come into her eves. Jimmy laughs mildly at the recollection.) Mrs. BowErs—(W ping her eyes and struggling for breath) A hot farmer you are, my boy. Do you think you would know which end of a horse to put in the shafts of a buggy? Jimmy—(fleasanily) I think I'd point his head in the direction I wanted him to go. (Then soberly) Mrs. Bowers, I don't know the first thing about farming. But I've got to have work. I'm strong and willing to learn. Will you give me try? Mrs. Bowers—(going to him, and patting him on the back) That's the spirit I like to see, my boy! Sure I'll give you a try. And I know you'll make good. (Turning to Norma) How will you like farming, Mrs. Duffin? Norma—(Eagerly) Oh Mrs. Bowers, I'm sure I'll just love it! Mrs. Bowrers—You're in the infant class, too, are you? Well, I like you both. And you've got the right kind of stuff in you. Can you go out with me tonight? NORMA AND JIMMY—(together) Yes. Right now, if you like. Mrs. Bowrers—Good! Let's get going then. Where's your luggage? NorMaA AND Jimmy—(together) I haven't any. Mrs. Bowrers—Come on then. I can lend you. A few duds. So long, Mary. And thanks. Miss Morton—(shaking hands all round.) Goodby, Nan. Let me know how it goes. Goodby, Jimmy. Goodby, Norma. Best of luck to you both in your new ventures. I hope your honeymoon will last forever. And that you'll surprise even the optomistic Mrs. Bowers with your farming ability. Jimmy—Goodby, Miss Morton. I can't thank you enough for this chance. Norma—Goodby, Miss Morton. Many thanks. I'll bring you a pound of butter when I learn how to make it. (Miss Morton stands smiling after them as they go out. The curtain falls.) 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SCENE 3 It is six months later. The curtain rises on the living roam of the little house on Mrs. Bowers' farm. The room is plainly furnished, but is neat and clean. Fresh muslin curtains at the windows, a few pictures on the walls, a few potted plants or vases of flowers, books and magazines make the place look home-like and attractive. Three chairs, a small table, a couch, and a footstool complete the furnishings of the room. Norma is sitting by a window putting a patch on a clean pair of overalls. She is singing softly to herself. She looks well and happy. Six months of hard work, country air, and nourishing food have taken the lines from her face and restored the peace to her soul. A few moments after the curtain rises Jimmy enters, whistling. He is weary and shows the effects of farm labor. His face and hands and clothes are soiled. But he is smiling and happy. Jimmy—Hello Honey. How's my girl? Norma—Best ever. Dinner's in the oven. It'll be ready before you are if you don't speed up. I filled the tub for your bath, and laid out your clean clothes. |. Jrmmy—Thanks, a lot, hon. I'll be seein' you. (He disappears into the kitchen). Norma—(calling to him) There's plenty of hot water in the teakettle and reservoir if you need more. Jrmmy—(calling from other room) This is fine as to temperature. It's space I need. To be really comfortable in this washtub I ought to weigh about a ton less and be able to fold up like a jack knife. Norma—Think of the times when you'd have been thankful for a wash tub. Jimmy—Shall I ever forget! But I've graduated from the class of the great unwashed. I love my two daily baths. Norma—I hope not. (Pause) I'm going down to see if there's any mail. I think I heard the postman's whistle. (She goes out. Jimmy is heard whistling, talking, splashing, and moving about. He has not heard Norma leave the room.) Jimmy—(calling) Say, Norma, Mr. Davis wants me to help him with his wheat next week. And he's going to help me with our sunporch. How's that for luck? (Then after a pause) Oh say, Norma, how would you like to be a keeper of bees? Mr. Davis told me today that Mrs. Bowers wants him to get me interested in bee culture. You know, it's a funny thing. I've always had a longing to raise bees. So we're to have an apiary. Twelve hives. Think of that! Isn't that great? Mr. Davis is going to put me onto the ropes. And best of all, we're to share in the profits. (Pause) What's the matter? Are you struck dumb? It's a great life. I never worked so hard in my life and I was never so happy. We're on the up and up. Aren't we? (Pause) Hi, Norma! What's the matter? (Jimmy comes into the living room. He its moist from his bath. He ls combing his hair, which is wet.) All alone? And that brilliant conversation wasted. (Norma enters. She has a farm journal and two letters. She hands one letter to Jimmy.) Norma—A letter for you. And one for me, from Miss Mary. Shall I read it aloud? (Jimmy has opened his own letter and doesn't hear her, he is so engrossed in what he is reading.) EARTH AND STARS 93 Norma—(Opening her letter reads aloud) My dear Norma:—The first thing I want to tell you is how happy I am at your success. You and Jimmy have both fulfilled my highest expectations. Mrs. Bowers is delighted with the way you are doing. She sings your praises constantly. My great piece of news, however, is even more gratifying. As I told you some time ago, I went to see the Goodwins. I went again the other day, and I mentioned you again. They seemed very much embarrassed, but no one said anything. Yesterday Sally came to see me. She made a clean breast of it. It was just as you thought. She had taken the jewels and pawned them to pay a debt. She redeemed them a short time ago. So of course the family knew all about it. She is truly sorry, I am sure. That clears you, my dear. I knew you were innocent, but it's nice to have every cloud banished. I think you'll see or hear from Sally soon. She asked for your address. Love to you both. Devotedly, your friend, Mary Morton. Isn't that great, Jimmy? (No answer) Jimmy! Wake up! Jimmy! Come to the party. (Jimmy has been reading his own letter. At first his face beams with pleasure. Then he glances anxiously at his wife. As she reads her letter, happy and unconscious of his perplexity, he sits and gazes into space until her calling him awakens his attention. He looks up suddenly and comes to himself with a start.) Jimmy—What did you say, darling? Norma—Oh Jimmy, shame on you. I read you my letter and you didn't hear one word I said. Jimmy—I'm sorry, dear. I'm afraid I didn't. Tell me about it. Norma—Miss Mary says that Mrs. Bowers is delighted with us, and best of all Sally Goodwin has confessed about taking her aunt's jewels. Andam I happy! Whom is your letter from? (Jimmy doesn't answer. Norma opens the new magazine and looks through it. Jimmy stares into space) If we don't turn out to be the best agriculturists in the community it won't be Mrs. Bowers fault. She certainly has a yen for sending all kinds of helpful literature to us. Here's a new one. (Then noticing Jimmy's abstraction) What's the matter, darling? Anything wrong? (Jimmy gets up impulsively, comes over to her side and sits down on the footstool, leaning against her.) Jimmy—(Soberly) Norma, we've been happy, haven't we? Norma—(Anxiously) Why of course, darling. Jimmy, what's the matter? Jimmy—(Gravely) Norma dearest, I've got to tell you something. But first, say that you love me. Norma—(Tenderly stroking his hair) Of course, my dear. So much that sometimes I'm afraid of being so happy. Jimmy—(Kisses her hand and holds it tightly in his own while he talks) Norma, you remember the day we were married I told you I'd found that five dollars? Norma—Yes dear. Jimmy—(with an effort) Well,—I didn't find it. I stole it. Norma—(faintly) I—you— Jimmy—(Interrupting her) Don't speak yet, dear. Let me explain. I was desperate. I was so hungry I picked up a raw potato on the 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE street and ate it dirt and all. I passed a hot dog stand on my way to meet you. All in a second I decided that I had to eat. I knew | couldn't pay for it, but I didn't care. I went up and ordered a dog and a glass of milk. While the man was fixing it for me, the man next to me laid down a five dollar bill to pay for what he'd had. Just then a fire siren shrieked, and everybody turned to look down the street. I grabbed the bill and beat it. In the confusion I got away. Oh Norma, I've suffered tortures since then. I wanted to tell you, but have been afraid of losing your love. I'm so sorry and ashamed. Can you forgive me and love me still? (He buries his face against her arm. She strokes his head softly, but remains silent. Jimmy raises his head in a moment or two and looks at her greatly distressed) Norma darling, please don't think I'm a thief. I'm not. That's the only thing I ever took in my life. Norma—(Slowly, and with an effort) No Jimmy, you're no more guilty than I am. I believe I knew that you had stolen that money. And I believe I was glad, although if you had told me I probably would have pretended to be shocked. At that moment I was so low myself that it seemed almost right. We were in such desperate need. Jimmy—( After a long silence) 1 want to tell you now, Norma, what a narrow escape you had from marrying a criminal. No one ever came nearer becoming one than I did that day. I had fully determined, after I took that money, that I would use my wits and get what I wanted no matter by what means. Norma—I know just how you felt. I was fighting hard to keep from feeling the same way. It seemed to me that all of a sudden my ideals were slipping. For the time being I seemed to forget that life means so much more than food and shelter. Jimmy—It was this lovely farm that saved me. I don't believe that even marrying you would have done the trick. I was justifying myself that we both had a right to live. (Pause) But getting back to nature! It's been wonderful! Norma—I don't think any one could be bad who loved nature as we do. Jimmy—I know I'm a different man. Darling, you married a potential criminal, and look at me now. Norma—(fondly) Now you're a potential farmer, and the world's best husband. Jimmy—(Puffing out his chest proudly) You're telling me! (Then seriously) Norma, I can never be grateful enough to my Heavenly Father for this chance. Do you remember what I said that day about His not being fatherly? I rejected Him. I'm glad He didn't take me at my word and cast me off. Norma—That's one thing God never does is to punish His children for foolish remarks. I think He seldom takes people at their word. And didn't Miss Morton and Mrs. Bowers come on the scene in the nick of time? That day was the turning point in our lives. We can see that now. Jimmy—Will you ever forget the night we came out here? After the EARTH AND STARS 95 chores were done and Mrs. Bowers had left us, and we stood alone gazing at the friendly stars? Norma—I never could forget. Didn't the stars seem kind, twinkling down at us? The peace of the night seemed like a benediction. I thought of what you had said about God not caring. I felt, as we stood there in the soft stillness of the night, that He had sent us home to a kind and understanding mother, who enveloped us in her tender arms. It was so unbelievably sweet and peaceful that [ had a little weep all by myself. Jimmy—lI know. Your tears dropped on my hand. I wanted to tell you then about the money, but I was afraid to break the spell. Normma—It's a good thing perhaps that we didn't have any confessions that night. We didn't know nor love each other then as we do now. Jimmy—This getting close to nature and your love have done wonders for me. Norma—And work, Jimmy. Don't forget how much that has done too. Jimmy—Sure. Don't I know it! Hard work, and the feel of the soil, and the fresh air, and the stars at night! It's wonderful what it does toa fellow. Norma—I don't know which I love better the sunrise or the sunset. But I know I love the stars best of all. I grow calm and happy and safe just gazing at them. Jimmy—(Abruptly) Oh say, I want to read you the letter I got. I didn't tell you, but Mr. Davis gave me five dollars a while ago for some work I did for him. I sent it to the man at the hot dog stand, telling him to give it back to the owner if he knew who he was. If not, to use it to feed other poor wanderers like me. I hadn't heard from him for so long I thought he hadn't got my letter or had kept the money himself. (Opens letter and reads) 'Dear Sir; yours of 9th. Inst. Received. Mr. Amos Smith was the man you stole the money from. I seen you take it and run. I told Mr. Smith, and says to him I'd ketch you, but he says, 'No, leave him be. I guess the pore boy needs it.' That's the kind of a guy he is, see? He was glad you sent it back, for he didn't like to think you was a crook. He give the money to me as you said—to feed other hungry guys. Many thanks from Mr. Smith and your humble servant, Bill Brown.' Norma—(with a happy sigh) That's all that was necessary to make this day perfect. And the future gloriously bright. Lovely nature, a clear conscience, our love, work, faith, and hope. Jimmy—(Tenderly putting his arm around her) Right you are! With that combination—well—how could we lose? The Curtain Falls Not Bread Alone By Elsie C. Carroll IX OR months the dark shadow of misunderstanding and_ suspicion had lain between Henry and Linda Bowers, threatening always to rear its devastating form and wreck their lives. Since that night of Eddie's homecoming when Kathie had drawn Thad's attention to the way Melville was looking at Linda, and Henry had heard—and seen, Linda had known only wretchedness. Henry had stirred in his chair and had looked at Linda; but when she had smiled at him, he only stared as though he had never seen her before. She was impatient for their guests to leave and for the children to get to bed. It would be a relief to have that ugly situation out in the open, now, once and for all. She had no doubt that Henry would be upset, but that he would fail to understand or believe her, never entered her mind. She had tried to spare him because Mel was his once idolized brother. In no way was she prepared for what happened. When she had finished the last little household duty preparatory for the next morning, she had gone to their room, expecting that as usual he would be preparing for bed. But he was not in the room. She went back to the living room. Perhaps he had gone to glance through the paper. But the room was dark and empty. Then she saw him through the window in the moonlight, standing under the Russian olive tree. She hurried out to him. "T thought you had gone to bed." Her own voice sounded unnatural. She slipped her hand through his arm and laid her cheek against his sleeve. But he did not respond with his usual caress. He stood cold and still, and she knew he was suffering. "Henry, what is the matter?" She found it hard to bring the subject into the open without his help. He said nothing, but stood looking over her head into the night. Then she could bear it no longer. She threw her arms around him and spoke rapidly, tears choking her. "It's what Kathie whispered to Thad, isn't it? Oh Henry I've wanted to tell you—for years. It has almost killed me not to. But I was afraid—you—"' He cut her short, his voice so cold and hard she would not have known it. "Then you admit it's true! You've been looking at each other like that before us all—for years—and me such a blind fool I didn't know. And it hasn't been just looks—God! How far?—the money he's been letting us have—that for Eddie—His staying here after he sold—His never marrying—My God, I can't bear it!" He had flung her arms from him and was pacing up and down the lawn. At first Linda was so stunned she could not speak. She could not move. Henry thought she loved Mel—that she was untrue to him. She felt that her whole world was crashing about her. Then she went to him and poured out the whole story from that first bold glance his brother had given her. She tried to explain that somehow NOT BREAD ALONE 97 how Mel's feelings were different now, and that she felt pity instead of her old loathing. She tried to make him understand why she hadn't told him before, and begged him to understand and believe her. But the man to whom she talked was no longer the Henry she knew. He berated himself for an idiot not to have known he could never compete with Mel even in the love of a woman. Of course she wanted a successful man, one who could give her the thing$ she craved. He told her she could have her freedom and marry Mel. He would not stand in the way. Not until she begged him to think of the children did he even seem to hear a word she said. Then he stopped talking for a moment and finally said, "Go in the house. I can't bear any more. I've got to think." INDA had crept into her room, wondering that she could still breathe and move after what she had suffered. There she had lain through the hours until dawn, sometimes weeping, sometimes staring helplessly into the darkness. When she heard the children stirring she changed her clothes, went out and bathed her face, and began to prepare breakfast. Just before the meal was ready she saw Henry coming from the direction of the store. He came in and spoke to the children as though nothing had happened. Linda didn't look into his eyes, but she saw that his face was as haggard as her own. They sat down to the table and the meal began. The children were so busy with their own chatter that it was not until the meal was nearly over that Mark looked at Linda and said,; "Are you sick, Mommy? You look so white and you're not eating."' "No, dear. I'm all right," she answered, lifting her glass of milk to her lips to hide their quivering. HAT meal set the trend their lives were to follow in the weeks afterward. Linda understood that Henry wanted to shield the children from knowing what he thought was true. He never looked directly at her, and spoke to her only when necessary. But from the outside, their relations were as usual. The first night after the others had gone to bed, Linda hoped, she could now make him listen to her and believe the truth. But the moment they were left alone he said quite casually, "I'll sleep on the couch down in the book nook. It will be safer to have someone there now the store is so far away, and then some one might come by needing gas or oil." "Oh, Henry—" she had started to plead, but he had gone out and quietly closed the door. And so they had gone on, no one realizing the tragedy they were living. Eddie and Grace went away. Jenny left for her geological trip. When the children learned that their father was sleeping at the store, Mark had protested. "Why, I'll do that, Dad. It would be fun." "No, I'll keep on," Henry had said with finality and had quickly diverted the boy's attention. INDA went on with her regular routines—supervising the store, giving music lessons, playing in the church for the regular services and for funerals—and trying to keep up the old free happy atmosphere of 98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the home. But the strain was too much. She was losing weight. The children were constantly asking if she were well. She knew things couldn't go on as they were. But she didn't know what to do. She had thought of going to Mel and begging him to talk to Henry. But she feared this might only result in some unspeakable tragedy. In dark moods such as Henry was suffering now, she didn't know what he might do. NE day in July a letter came informing Richard that he had won second prize in the music contest. The first prize was five hundred dollars in cash. The second, a scholarship to the Julliard School of music in New York City. Linda was surprised over the little elation she felt. She had ceased to feel anything keenly but her own wretchedness. Ordinarily she would have begun at once to make it possible for the boy to take advantage of the unusual opportunity. But she only said, "It's wonderful, son. It shows what you can do and should be an incentive for you to keep working even though you can't go." "Can't go?" Richard hadn't doubted that some way would be provided for him to accept the scholarship. "I don't see how you can, dear. This scholarship is just for tuition in the school. There'd be your trip to New York, your living expenses. They were eating the mid-day meal. Linda lowered her eyes to her plate. To keep from seeing her son's disappointment. "Why don't you ask uncle Mel to let you have the money?" Bonny asked. "He's rich, if we aren't, and he let us have money to build the store and fix up the house, and he's going to let Jenny have some to go to school some more." Both Henry and Linda opened their lips to speak. Then without looking at each other, they both closed them again. "That's what I'll do." Richard was gone from the table like a flash, his letter in his hand. He was back just as the others were getting up from the table. "I'm going, Mommy! I'm going, Daddy! He says I don't even need to pay the money back. Good old Uncle Mel!" "And I used to think he was an old grouch," said Mark. 'Bonny what can we think of to ask him for some money for." Henry went quickly from the room. Linda saw him later sitting on a bench beside the gas tank, his shoulders slumped and his head down. A FEW days before Richard was to leave, Linda was awakened early one morning by someone calling at her bedroom window. "Henry! Linda!" It was Mel's voice. "What's the matter?" "It's mother. You'd better hurry. She's about gone." Mel was running back up the street. Linda dressed hurriedly and went to the store to call Henry. The old lady had been failing fast for weeks; but even so, Mel's news was a shock. She started to tell Henry that she would go on ahead, but checked herself and said, "Tl have to leave some instructions for the children, but will come in a few minutes." When she arrived it was almost over. Effie had gone sobbing from the room. Mel and Henry stood on NOT BREAD ALONE 99 opposite sides of the bed. Thad and Kathie were not yet there. Linda stood watching the last struggles of the faded. Wasted little form of the woman she had tried to love. She thought of the peace that is thought to come with death. Suddenly she envied Mrs. Bowers that peace. She wished that she too could be lying with the heartaches of life allover. As she stood at the foot of the bed, letting such thoughts flow through her mind, she felt herself growing dizzy, and the room becoming dark. She made no effort to cling to consciousness. Perhaps if she let herself go, she, too, could die. She felt herself swaying. She heard Mel cry, "She's fainting!" She realized vaguely that both men started toward her; then that they both drew back, as she fell to the floor, striking her head on the corner of the dresser. Then everything went black. LINDA opened her eyes and lay staring at the white ceiling. She had a queer sense that she had been a long way off and hadn't vet got back. She wasn't sure where she was, nor how she got there, nor what that was on her head. She stirred a little arid a strange figure in white bent over her. "What's happened? Where am I?" Linda's voice sounded strange and far away. She could see sunlight streaming through yellow curtains and could smell flowers. "You have been ill,", the white person said. "You are better now but you mustn't talk until you are stronger." A door opened and someone who looked like Henry but was different came and knelt by her bed. He was kissing her hands and she could feel warm tears falling over them. Something like that had happened once before—long—long ago when Eddie was born. She tried to think how long ago it was, but the effort was too great; so she closed her eyes and let herself float away on the perfume coming somewhere from flowers. THE next time she opened her eyes she knew it was morning and that she was in her own room. She thought she must get up and begin the day's work. But when she stirred that white figure was bending over her again. Now she knew it was a nurse. "You're much, much better today. See if you can take a little of this broth." A glass tube was placed between Linda's lips and she sipped slowly. "Presently Henry was there beside her again, and Jenny Lind and Eddie. "What is the matter?" she asked. "T thought you had gone." They looked so serious as if they wanted to cry. "You've been sick, sweetheart," Henry said. "But now you'll soon be well again—thank—God." He turned away and walked to the window. Linda knew he was wiping his eyes and she wanted to comfort him. But she was so tired.; The other children came in. Bonny reached out and patted her hair and Mark brought a rose from a vase on the dresser and laid it on her pillow. She smiled at them, but she was too tired to talk. T last she awoke with her mind clear and she began to piece together the things that had puzzled her. She remembered standing at the foot of the bed watching Henry's mother die. She remembered wishing that she herself might die, and 100 thinking that perhaps if she tried she might. Why had she wanted to die? Her mind groped for a moment, then it all came back. Henry thought she loved Mel. She uttered a little moan as she recalled what she had suffered. Henry bent over her. She looked searchingly into his face to make sure the old light of love was in his eyes. Perhaps the other had all been a horrible dream. "Darling," she whispered and he kissed her lips. Gradually she grew stronger and learned that she had been in bed for weeks with a raging fever. The gash in her head was healed and a little color was coming back to her face. She learned that the' day Mrs. Bowers was buried, the doctor from Mendon had said there was no hope for Linda and the children who had come for their grandmothers funeral had stayed. For days she had barely held her own, and then gradually she - had begun to come back. Jenny Lind had given up her trip. Eddie had arranged for a substitute. Richard had postponed his going to New York. Effie had taken over the management of the house. Everyone in Cedar Basin had come to offer help and had kept her room filled with the flowers she had taught them to love. Linda was overwhelmed with all this devotion. And to think, she reproved herself, that she had wanted, had tried to die. Ig was not until she was able to be up a little while each day and sit in the sun by the window, that Henry told her what he knew she was wanting to know. He sat on the low chair beside her and held her wasted, blue-veined hands. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Linda, I know you have forgiven me, but I want to hear you say it." She lifted his hand to her cheek. "Henry, I love you, and there is no question of forgiveness between people who love. But I'd like you to tell me, if you can, how you came to know the truth." A spasm of suffering crossed his face. "You told it to me over and over, sweetheart, during those awful days of your fever. I can't forgive myself for what you suffered. But before that Mel made me understand. After we let you fall there between us and thought perhaps we had killed you with that ghastly wound in your temple, he turned on me and showed me what a blind brute I'd been. He told me the whole story just as you had done, not sparing himself one bit—and glorifying you, darling, for he revealed how love for a good woman can transform mere physical passion to something holy. He will always love you, Linda, but his love is clean and sanctified now. It has made a big man of him, a bigger man than I can ever hope to be." "Where is he, Henry?" "He has gone away to travel. We may never see him again, but if we do there will need be no fear. You said you were sorry for him. So am I, and I'm proud of a brother so much bigger than I could be in the same situation. He might have fought for you Linda, and he should have won. After all I made you suffer, it wouldn't have been strange if you had turned from me." "Silly boy." She leaned against him and sighed contentedly. "I hope Mel finds life—and I hope like us, that he finds more than the bread of life." The End What Knowledge is of Most Worth? By Eleanor S. Muir HE most precious thing in life is our knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness, and the wisdom to apply that knowledge to our individual lives. However, by saying a knowledge of the everlasting Gospel is the knowledge of most worth, does not mean that we believe in seeking it alone to the exclusion of all other forms and varieties of knowledge. On the contrary, the Church encourages us to seek after all worthy intellectual development.. Under the 'light of what we have learned the Gospel will bear close examination of its doctrines. And the more highly trained we become, the more we will appreciate its depth, beauty and meaning and the reason why it includes all truth. The most vital part of our being is the eternal spirit. Therefore, spiritual development is the most important phase of our process of growth, and this enlightenment comes only through a knowledge of spiritual things. A man is not truly educated if he lacks spiritual knowledge. Religious education is not something added to education, nor something apart from it, it is a definite quality of education. So it is a knowledge of the Gospel that provides us this important portion of our development. MAN lives in an atmosphere of materialism. So great is the attraction of this glamorous civilization that little real thinking is done face to face with great spiritual issues. Many have so limited their capacities for experience on the higher levels that they are unable to discern the things of God. "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul. Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul." Mark 8:36-37. Only the spiritually alive are aware of Him in whom we all live and have our being. A man becomes a great musician, artist, or scientist only as he cultivates his capacities for experience in these things. Likewise in the matter of religious and spiritual knowledge. It comes to people who have developed their capacities for these things. Spiritual experience cannot be bought and it has no equivalent. It is won as a prize for moral achievement. The Kingdom of Heaven is within us, the pure in heart can see God; that is a form of experience which riches or material power do not have access to. 45 INASMUCH as man lives in a world of material things it is impossible, even if it were desirable, for him to withdraw his whole attention from them. Is it not experience of a material environment for which we came here? How wonderful it is to have a knowledge which recognizes not only the spiritual side of life, but also the temporal side. From the earliest history of the Church, the temporal welfare of its people have been closely connected with their spiritual development. Such characteristics as the Word of Wisdom, our non-professional Priesthood and tithing, bear record of this connection. Our wonderful missionary system necessitates great sacrifice on the 102 part of the missionary and the supporting home, a sacrifice that could only be made through a complete and sympathetic understanding of the restored Gospel. That the organization abounds in facilities to reach man in every walk of life, to develop him spiritually, intellectually, morally and physically is unquestioned. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It is obvious that our superior knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, together with our Church system, creates for us the highest, most expansive ground upon which to intensify our spiritual personalities and live more abundantly and gain exaltation. It is truly the knowledge of most worth. Seated in center, President Laura W. Salzner, standing back of her are her counselors and secretary, at her right Sister Max Zimmer, President Y. W. M. I. A. With her counselors and secretary. At Sister Salzner's left is Helen Salzner, President Primary and her counselors and secretary. A Thanksgiving Radio Message By Sinah B. Reid THANKSGIVING Day is drawing near. It is natural that our thoughts revert to 1620, when the Pilgrims landed on Plymouth Rock. After they had sown and garnered a fruitful harvest they met together and gave thanks to God for His blessings to them; for the bounties of the earth, of the forest and of the streams. The last Thursday in November has been designated by our President as an annual holiday for the people to meet and give thanks and to remind men and women that they are dependent, not alone upon their own strength and power, but to the Supreme God who, in His tender mercy, sends the snow and rain in its season to moisten and nurture the earth and commands the sun to shine and ripen the fruits of the vine and the waving fields of wheat and corn. This inspiration came to me. Why not send a radio message to the many gifted poets and authors who have passed on but have left to us such a rich legacy—not in silver or gold, but in sublime thoughts and choice words which are "'sweet tones of the heart." Let us talk to Nathaniel Hawthorne, as he was one of the first descendants of those illustrious Pilgrims to climb the ladder of literary fame. The resourceful teacher may adapt her lesson to the time when it is given or may introduce some delightful innovation to take her class back over many lessons. Sister Reid of the 16th Ward of Salt Lake Stake combined such a backward glance with the spirit of Thanksgiving Day, in the following radio talk. Mr. Hawthorne, we are sending you a Thanksgiving greeting. Please accept our gratitude for the rich legacy you left us and generations yet unborn. The knowledge that revenge withers all it breathes upon: that the sinner is not lost, but that through repentance and goodly deeds becomes glorified, as in the character of the repentant Esther. Give greetings to Mr. Emerson, who left us a task to perform, to unlock the caskets and speak to the many friends in libraries "who are imprisoned in leather and paper boxes and who have been waiting many, many years—two, ten and twenty centuries. They are eager to give us a sign and unbosom themselves, but it is the law they cannot speak until spoken to." Tell him we have discharged the duties, turned back the covers and are making friends of the characters enclosed therein. In your visits to and fro you have surely met William Shakespeare, for "intelligence seeks intelligence." Inform him that as the centuries pass, his literary star shines more resplendent. King Lear has never been approached, while Portia stands alone as an example of womanly beauty and wifely devotion. The library doors are open and his characters are speaking to the world. In company with him you will find Tennyson and Wordsworth, who brought solace to our hearts and made happier the days of our setting sun. Tennyson made the end of our earthly journey more clear by his "Crossing the Bar," "for though from out the bourne of time and 104 place, the flood may bear me far, I hope to see my Pilot face to face when I have crossed the bar." Wordsworth completed our ancestral chain. ''Not in entire forgetfulness, not in utter nakedness, but trailing clouds of glory do we come from God, who is our home." If it so be that in boundless space there shall be Scottish clans, just carry a message to Sir Walter Scott. The rich pageantry he left behind has enabled us in fancy to visit his native heath, Scotland; to feast upon the grandeur of her forests, lakes and streams; to scent the fragrance of her violets and sense the mysticism of her wishing well and listen in awe to the voice of God as He speaks in the "thunder and the lightning." In communion with Scott you will find Robert Burns. We bless his name for the gifts he left: "An honest man is the noblest work of God." A divine light is shed upon the family group as, with seraphic fire, he reads again to us the words of him who was upon the Isle of Patmos cast. Among your own Pilgrim group, give greetings to Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. The music of his Hiawatha and Git-che-gu-ma—Oh, how it has enriched our children's lives. And we, while listening to their childish recitals of Na-ko-mis, have supped the sweets of Indian lore. We understood the whispering of the winds through the forests, listened to music of the falls of Minnetonka and sensed the legend of the waving corn fields, while his Evangeline RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and Gabriel are as a sweet benediction. Today we were with Whittier, shaking hands anew with friends in "Snowbound." No shut in walls are drear, nor ice nor snow drifts deep, with thoughts sublime, like those he left behind, a priceless heritage for us to keep. He was as humble and as pure as the snow he immortalized. Oh, there are so many we would send a message to, but radio time is limited. But one we must remember for while he tarried here on earth he made us all so happy. Tell him that the old Mississippi just keeps rolling and rolling along» And as time passes on at a rapid pace, the people love him more, regardless of their color or race. When the moon is high and the river low and the tugboats are tossing to and fro, above the steamboat's whistle and the negro mirth within, is the rhythm of the river, Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn. With him you'll meet Bret Harte, who is likely aware of the fact that man has become very clever since he left us. So much so that. He sails the sky and speeds over the ground. The high Sierras are a playground the year round. Many of us have visited Poker Flat. While viewing the scene, we thought of him who touched the human chords of charity, while he so vividly portrayed the weaknesses of the flesh and the bigotry of man. My radio time has come to a close, so good bye, Mr. Hawthorne, and a pleasant Thanksgiving to you. Gaily We Do Our Work By Virginia B. Jacobsen O you ever hear such wails as D these? "Mother, wash the dishes. Night." "T always get the hardest jobs. It just isn't fair!" "Make him help me, Mother, he never does anything." There is an old saying, "There is a remedy for everything under the sun." This home malady is no exception. The plan suggested here has been tried out and has proved successful. It is very simple and well Worth trying. This is the way we changed black looks, tears, and grumbling, to smiles and singing in our home. We divided the household tasks, which were expected of the children, into equal groups, and listed each group on a neat card. The cards were numbered 1 and 2. (There are only two children old enough to participate in this plan in our home.) it's her turn to I did them last (Front of card No. 1) Clean up my own room. Dust the front room. Sweep the front porch. Wipe the supper dishes. PON (Front of card No. 2) Clean up my own room. Clean up the bath room. Dust the dining room. Sweep the back porch. PONS The back of each card is a score card for each child. It can be ruled to look like this: Jane S.|M.| T.| W.| T.| F.|S. | Job 1 2 | | 3 | 4 | | | Nancy | S.| M.| T.| W.| T.| FI S. Job_| | 1 | 2 |. Al | 3 | | | 4 | | | Jane takes card No. 1 for a week, and Nancy takes card No. 2. As each task is completed each day, Nancy checks it off on the back of her card, and Jane does the same on her card, as she completes her tasks. Of course, each child should be encouraged to try for a perfect record the first week. The next week the cards are exchanged, and then each child is trying to make as good a record as was made on the card the previous week. The list of tasks will largely depend upon the season. During the school year children cannot do as much in the morning as they can in the summer. It is wise to divide the work so that not too much is expected at one time. It is surprising how much little hands can do to help Mother and still not be over worked. If managed in the right way, work is real fun. 106 This plan can be carried a little farther, if the mother is very conscientious. After each task is completed, inspect the job and award the worker with: 1 point (on the card) if the task is poorly done.. 2 points if done fairly well. 3 points if done exceptionally well. At the end of the week, add up the score each child has made, and award the one with the highest score with some little consideration. If you give your children a regular weekly allowance, a little extra could be given to the one making the highest score. This is a decided encouragement toward doing their best. Of course, it requires absolute honesty and good judgment on the part of the mother. There are a few things mothers must remember in putting such a system to work. 1. Don't expect a child to do impossible things. Make the array of jobs within the ability of the children. 2. Take time to teach them to do each job thoroughly and in the right way. They will take pride in work well done. 3. Don't nag or scold about doing the work, or all the joy and fun will be taken out of the plan, and then it will not work. 4. Let the children feel that they are sharing in the responsibility of the home. Children thrive on moderate responsibility, and are made dependable by being trusted. 5. Help each child to find joy in what he does. Let them feel that this is sort of a game. There is no reason why we should not have fun in doing the menial tasks of life. By all means, do not let them feel or know that you are using this plan to keep them from quarreling or to get them to do something. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 6. If Nancy takes longer to do her work than Jane takes, let her take longer. We are not all made in the same pattern, nor can we all move at the same rate of speed. MENTIONING the weekly allowance brings up another important point. Do you give your children a small weekly allowance? It is a splendid way to make children feel a responsibility in helping in the home. Often a weekly allowance, dependent upon performance of certain regular jobs in the home, is all that is necessary to stop bickering and fussing over doing little tasks. An allowance, small though it may be, gives a child a feeling of wholesome responsibility. As a parent, it is your duty to help your children learn to bear responsibility while they are young, if you would make worthy citizens of them. Are you one of those parents who take the attitude that your children should help in the home to help pay for their food and clothes? Perhaps you are right, but child nature does not reason that way. "Dad gets paid for what he does, so why shouldn't I?" They may not say it in so many words, but compensate a lazy child and see how readily he responds to responsibility. Let me stress, it is not the amount of the allowance which counts—it is the feeling that he has earned it himself. In fact, it is wise not to make the allowance too large at first, or the demand will be greater than the supply as the age of the child increases. One family with two little girls of five and seven, and a baby boy of three carries this plan out beautifully. The girls have definite daily jobs to do. On Saturday night, Daddy makes quite an affair of giving them their weekly allowance, if they GAILY WE DO OUR WORK have been faithful in performing these tasks all week. The older one receives ten cents, the younger one five cents, and little brother receives a shiny penny for having run errands around the house, and for learning to dress himself. Again I say: It isn't the amount of money which counts—it is the glorious feeling that they have honestly earned something which really belongs to them. These children in this family practically never ask for money to buy candy or such things. They always 107 their personal drawer; they have earned it, and they feel a decided responsibility in spending it wisely. Parents should teach their children, early in life, that Dad's pocket, and Mother's purse are not veritable Aladdin's lamps—that money only comes as a compensation for honest work and effort. Children who learn to take their share of responsibility, and who learn how to earn money and spend it wisely will seldom go far wrong. The place to get their first experience in both these lessons is in the home. Have a little money tucked away in MAGAZINE DRIVE WARD STAKE Enroll. No. Sub. % Magazine Agent Arcadia Duchesne 20 18 90 Rose D. Gilbert Bancroft Idaho 44 52 118 Zetta Ormond Bridgeland Duchesne 32 30 94 Pearl Meachem Duchesne Duchesne 42 34 81 Minnie Wheeler Grand Forks, North No. Central States 8 10 125 Lottie Leheu Dakota Mission Oak City Deseret 63 47 75 Rachel Roper Ogden Third North Weber 81 61 75 Isabell T. Hill Pershing Alberta 9 9 100 Lillia Welch Pine River Branch Western States 10 10 100 Iona J. Black Slaterville North Weber 30 31 103 Sylvia Knight Sterling Blackfoot 18 18 100 Annie Nelson Tabona Duchesne 15 12 80 Minnie Le Fevre Toponce Idaho i4 11 79 Elva Call Taylorsville Alberta 20 20 100 Rose Lowry Union Union 40 45 113 Rose Kofford Duchesne 313 155 50 Eliza J. Gilbert Burley 480 289 60 Mrs. T. Barlow (This ward has gone up from 7 per cent to 113 per cent since the drive.) Since the report published in the December magazine we have received the above reports. We do not expect to publish another list until after the next drive. God's Hand Doth Guide By Mary P. Thorley COMPANY of exiles, men and women of culture and refinement, outcasts from civilization, forced to leave their garden spots, their orchards, public halls, their lovely homes, some of which were already in flames, and their magnificent Temple, were fleeing from beautiful Nauvoo, taking with them what little of their substance could be packed into two or three wagons, fleeing from hostile mobs, journeying desert ward to seek a haven of rest among the more tender hearted savages of the wilderness In this company were Edward Gale, his frail young wife, Margaret and Ralph, their two year old son. Bitter cold weather ensued, several members of the company lay sick, some dying from exposure and lack of care, but even this pitiable condition did not move the hearts of the cruel mobs of Illinois as they forced the exiles across the Mississippi River. A temporary camp was made that cold February night and under the rude shelter of a hut, while cutting winds blew and snow fell, Ruth Gale was born. After a few days of rest and the toilsome journey was resumed. Miles and miles they trod, until days lengthened into weeks and weeks into months. They toiled on, weary and footsore, scantily clothed, oftentimes hungry, they climbed mountains, waded streams, while at times they were discouraged and despondent, they were constantly cheered and strengthened by their noble leader. President Brigham Young asked William Clayton to write something that would help and encourage them. "Come, Come Ye Saints" was written and gave them hope and renewed faith; a hymn that was and ever will be a source of inspiration and comfort to its people. Salt Lake Valley was reached, the place where President Young had gazed in silence for a few moments and then exclaimed, "This is the Place." Still rich in their faith in God, finding solace in prayer, singing songs of praise to their Creator, they had reached the promised land, a resting place for their weary feet, where they could fulfill the predictions of the Prophet Joseph Smith and become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. FIGHTEEN years had gone by; the little city of Beverly, tucked away in the heart of the hills, with its beautiful homes, its public buildings, its broad streets, which had been laid out by President Brigham Young, and the promise given its settlers that if they would keep the Sabbath day holy, pay their tithes and offerings, be prayerful, be thrifty and helpful to each other, and keep God's commandments at all times, the desert would in time blossom as the rose. Tonight the little city was a garden. It's towering trees, its lawns and lovely flowers made it in the gathering twilight beautiful to behold and the abode of peace. The Gale home was a happy place, its four occupants were bound by ties of love and service. Ruth was beautiful, talented, good, the queen of the little realm in which she lived, the pride of her loving parents and brother and a favorite with all who knew her. Kissing her lovingly her GOD'S HAND DOTH GUIDE father repeatedly said, "Our ray of sunshine, sent to make our home a paradise." The Gospel had been taught and lived in the Gale home in all its truth and beauty and many, many evenings the young people of the town gathered there to listen to pioneer stories, sing songs and hymns and enjoy its spiritual atmosphere. Evening time brought John Benton, Ruth's lover, tall, manly, clean; the type of man the world needs. John was twenty years of age, stalwart and dependable, fatherless since he was fourteen, but with the help of his frail, little mother he had completed high school and for the present given up his dream of College that he might take care of the farm. There was a happy evening in that dear old home just as many previous ones had been. Ruth and John had been sweethearts since the time they were kiddies in grade school and Ruth had always claimed him as her lover. He had asked her to be his wife and even though she had dreamed many times of their future together, at present she was undecided. Frequently of late she had met Roy Montaine, a New Yorker, he told her of the wonders of that big city, of her wasted life in such a small town, of her beauty'' and what she might accomplish with her talents were she to abandon all this. Ruth loved the little city and the people in it, and every one loved her. She loved her humble home where she had spent so many happy hours: she loved her parents who had sacrificed so much for her but the picture painted by Roy Montaine was beautiful and she longed for new experiences. For the thrills, the bright lights of New York could give. Montaine called at her home a number of times; her parents were anxious about her. There was a 109 sad look on John Benton's face when she told him how dearly she loved him but asked him to wait until she was more sure of her decision. The evening twilight was settling over Beverly hills when Roy Montaine called to take Ruth for a drive, she was infatuated, thrilled with his words of love as she looked into his handsome yet cynical face. Clasping her in his arms he told her she belonged to him and begged her to go with him. In the thrill of his. Passionate kisses she wrote a note to her parents, her brother and John. '"Forgive me, dear ones, I'm going to marry Roy Montaine. I know I will be happy, Ruth." Then she was gone. There was a saddened home and heavy hearts when she failed to return. HE news that Ruth had gone spread like wild fire and brought sorrow and heartache to every home in Beverly. "Why had it happened! How could Ruth do it, surrounded as she was by such love and devotion? Would she be happy? A hundred other questions were asked as families gathered that evening around their hearthstones. Baby lips lisped her name in prayer and in every home in that little village in evening devotion they prayed that God would guard her. Father and mother Gale, bowed and heart-broken could only clasp each others hands and murmur a silent prayer. Ralph sobbed as if his young heart would break. John Benton aged years during that first long night after the news came to him. Early next morning Bishop Rae called at his home. Clasping John's hand and that of his mother he said, "God bless you, my boy, this is a sad blow to all of us. We'd like you to go into the mission field, we'll see that this precious 110 mother is well taken care of." The plan was discussed as they sat around the breakfast table and in one week John was on the way to the North Eastern States mission. THE miles sped by while Montaine continued to tell Ruth of his love; after an all night drive she rested at a hotel while Montaine attended to some business affair. Returning with three strangers a hurried marriage ceremony was performed and in one short week Ruth found herself in gay New York. The apartment to which she was taken was elaborate; she was showered with beautiful gowns and jewels and her every wish was granted. Their evenings were spent at theaters and concert halls; there was so much to see, so much that was strange and wonderful and Ruth, thrilled with it all, had scarcely time to think of the old home and of John. Her first evening spent at a Cabaret, where she met a number of Montaine's friends, revealed a new phase of life; there was music and wine, women reeled from its influence and Ruth found herself an alien to these surroundings. Montaine was sullen when she refused to mix with the crowd and during the drive home neither had much to say. From this time on Montaine was not so attentive. He often telephoned that he was dining down town and Ruth had long days and evenings alone, hours when she had time to think, days and nights when she would have given her life almost to be back in her girlhood home. She tried to write to her loved ones, to tell them of her new life but she could not and night after night she silently sobbed. OUR long months passed by and Ruth realized that she was to become a mother. In her new found RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE joy she told her husband, thinking this news would bridge the gulf that was widening between them. Montaine was furious. He raved as if he were mad and with that cynical smile told Ruth their marriage was a sham, that she was not his wife. Alone she left his apartment, taking with her a small suit case of her simplest clothes. She wandered aimlessly, her brain on fire, not knowing where she was going and not caring. She thought ~of the river where she might end her shame, but the image of the little mother came before her and she heard again the teachings of that sacred home and drew back. Darkness came on as hopelessly she wandered. Through the door of a church came soft strains of music, a sweet voice was singing, "Lead Kindly Light, Amid the encircling gloom, Lead Thou me On, The night is dark and I am far from home. I loved to see and choose my path, but now" with an agonized cry she looked toward Heaven and murmured, ''Lead Thou Me On." Aimlessly, listlessly she wandered until the first, faint streaks of morning appeared in the eastern sky, a dim light in the distance seemed to be beckoning her, almost exhausted she reached the door of a shabby. Little shack, a kindly hand opened the door and Ruth fell fainting into the room. Strong, Irish arms were about the girlish form and she was tenderly lifted to a couch. When consciousness returned Ruth in broken sobs told her story; she had reached a humble shack but it housed a mother heart. Mrs. Maloney had known real sorrow, bereft of her two grown up sons, her baby girl and her husband within the short space of five years. She had for a time thought her grief unbearable but in the pain and suffering GOD'S HAND DOTH GUIDE 111 that seemed to surround her on every corner she had forgotten her own grief in the joy of service to others less fortunate than herself. WHEN Ruth was able she walked for miles, going from door to door asking for work, and finally secured a position in a ribbon department. Days and weeks went by, night after night she sobbed her heart out in prayer to God for forgiveness. She tried to write home to the dear father and mother whose hearts she had so cruelly broken, but her pride refused to let her do it. Several months passed during which time she had become a general favorite with those around her and everyone was eager to bring smiles to her saddened, youthful, face. Then came an evening when the proprietor kindly told her not to come to work again until she was well! Her new friends bade her goodbye with tears in their eyes, some of them with sadder stories than hers. Then followed weeks of anguish and heartache, unable to find work, she was dependent upon the kind hospitality of a stranger. There wasn't fuel to keep them warm; they were often hungry. During nights of bitter anguish Ruth prayed that God would take her life and that of her unborn babe. Mother Maloney's arms stole around Ruth's neck and kissing her tenderly she would say, "Niver mind, darlint, you were Heaven sint to my door and everything will be right by an' by.'' Then came a night of pain and suffering, then weeks of convalescing in which the dear Irish friend shared her meagre store with Ruth; there was a wee squirming little bundle with brown curls and dimpled cheeks, eyes so big and blue that finally brought a smile to Ruth's face as she lovingly cared for her precious son. BEFORE her strength returned she went again in search of work and was repeatedly met with the same answer. Finally she got a position. Then with her arms around Mother Maloney's neck she promised to partly repay her for her many kindnesses. There were happy hours in that humble home as they watched the baby grow and as his chubby little arms were around Ruth's neck and his precious baby face pressed close to hers she prayed that God would guard and keep him. One morning Ruth awakened with a start, baby Jack was croupy; his tiny hands were hot, his lips feverish, but Ruth must go to work or lose her job. What should she do? There was no money to call a doctor, if she failed to appear at the store her pay check stopped. Mrs. Maloney's arms were again around her as she said, "Go, darlint, I'll take care of our baby."' All day Ruth's mind was on "Jack," she was nervous and worried and could hardly wait until closing time. When she reached home there was a marked change in his condition and together she and Mother Maloney worked untiringly to ease the little sufferer. A week of suffering and the tiny baby fingers clasping Ruth's began to relax. The faint little pulse grew weaker. Opening his big, blue eyes, a faint smile on his face, he tried to lisp. "mama" then death claimed him. Ruth sat as if turned to stone. The City officials were notified and strange hands took the little form away. They urged that Ruth be taken to a County hospital but Mrs. Maloney refused to let her go. For days and nights Ruth lay in a wild delirium, calling piteously for mother, daddy, Ralph and John: reaching for her baby, imagining she had him in her arms; crooning a lull- 112 aby; kissing his cheeks then begging that he might live, pleading with God not to take him from her. There were times when Mrs. Maloney thought Ruth's reason had gone entirely. After days of mental anguish she felt exhausted and slept only to awaken to the bitter loneliness of it all, then came tears, that solace of grief. Her benefactress's arms were around her as with awkward tenderness she patted the heaving shoulders so shaken with sobs. There's a wealth of love in some big hearts that have known only the hard things of life and lavishly did Mother Maloney shower that love on Ruth. T was a long time before Ruth again found work; the roses had faded from her cheeks, the lustre from her eyes; there was even in her heart a resentment against her Maker, but time heals all wounds and as she accompanied Mother Maloney on her errands of mercy, sometimes closing the eyes of the dying; crooning a lullaby to a motherless babe, telling stories to hungry, little hearts, carrying sunshine to homes that had known only sorrow, the picture of her own precious mother, so far away, doing like errands would come before Ruth, and she realized fully the meaning of the Savior's words, "He that doeth it unto the least of these my brethren, hath done it unto me" and with her beloved benefactress she found joy and peace in service. UTH spent many happy hours telling Mother Maloney of her home life, of her parents, of Ralph and John; of her religion. She told the story of the Prophet Joseph Smith, how an angel had revealed to him the restored gospel; of his persecution and finally his martyrdom RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and that of his beloved brother Hyrum. She told of the sufferings endured by the early saints: of her own faith in God and her benefactress listened intently, eager always for more. One evening as they were in the busy part of the city. Ruth was attracted by someone singing; she listened a moment then drew her companion to the street corner where Mormon elders were holding a street meeting. As they sang, '"O, Ye Mountains High; We Thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet. And Come, Come Ye Saints," Ruth could hardly stand it; she wanted to sing with them; she wanted to tell them she too, was a member of their church; she wanted to talk to them of HOME, but she could not. With what change she had she purchased a Book of Mormon, then spent happy hours reading its pages to Mother Maloney, while that honest, Irish heart received its wonderful message. Repeatedly they attended. The street meetings. A DREAD epidemic swept the district where Ruth and her benefactress lived and in two short days it looked as if Ruth was to lose her beloved Irish mother. Untiringly she worked over the dear, old form. Trying to relieve the pain and soothe the tired sufferer. The County physician was called, took the weak pulse, left some tablets and promised to return in an hour. On his second visit, he shook his head and said there was nothing more could be done, the patient would only linger for another hour or so." Were Ruth's prayers to go unheeded? Hadn't she yet paid the price for that moment of reckless folly? What would she not have given for her father and Ralph to anoint that aching head and through their prayer of faith relieve that precious GOD'S HAND DOTH GUIDE mother. Dropping on her knees by the bedside, one hand clasping Mother Maloney's, she prayed, "Dear God, please spare her life; how can I live without her?" then in a half whisper she added, "Not my will but Thine be done.'"' An atmosphere of peace seemed to settle in the room, broken only by the labored breathing of the sufferer, then Ruth rising from her knees whispered something to the kind neighbor who kept watch with her and stole quietly from the room. She ran for blocks, reaching the nearest Drug Store, called the Mission home, asked for the elders, gave them her address, asked them to come quickly as someone was dying. In a short time, but what seemed an eternity to Ruth, two humble Mormon elders, clothed with the Priesthood of God, entered that humble home, anointed the tired head with holy oil, unitedly laid their hands upon the sufferer's head and in the name of Jesus Christ rebuked the destroyer and asked their Father in Heaven to restore her. All night Ruth kept watch. When the first faint streaks of day appeared Mother Maloney opened her tired eyes and said, "Sure, darlint, and I was near the pearly gates." With tears rolling down Ruth's cheeks, she pressed her lips tenderly against the wrinkled face and whispered, "God has been so good to me and I'm so happy, mother mine." DURING the weeks that followed there were happy evenings in the Maloney home; frequent visits from the elders; hours when they explained the Gospel and sang the songs that were so dear to that Irish heart and to Ruth. As mother Maloney listened to the sweet trio of voices sing, "O, My Father', "Lead Kindly Light", "When Irish Eyes Are Smiling", she would say, 113 "Sure and the angels couldn't sound any swater." THREE years had gone by, days, weeks and months in which John Benton had given the best of his young life in service for his church; he had tried to forget his own sorrow while he carried the gospel message to hearts that were hungering for the truth. He had received an honorable release and was to return home. When attending a mission conference Ruth's heart almost stopped _ beating; her face deathly pale, she grasped Mother Maloney's hand while Pres. Ralph, John Benton and a number of other elders walked to the stand. With all the love that had been stored in her heart for three long years, she whispered to her companion, "John" and that dear Irish heart understood. The meeting was over, everyone was thrilled with the message the humble elders had delivered. Ruth could stand it no longer, with her companion she walked to the front of the building. John gave one gasp, clasped her extended hand and with a world of love in his heart said, "Ruth". He wanted to take her in his arms and tell her again that he loved her but remembered that she belonged to another. There was little time for conversation but Mother Maloney invited President Ralph and John to share her frugal meal next day and there she told them Ruth's story. Holding Ruth in his arms and looking into her precious eyes he read some of the sorrow and heartache of the past three years. John baptized Mother Maloney and President Ralph confirmed her a member of the church. There was a quiet wedding in the Maloney home, to be solemnized later in the Temple. A message was flashed 114 across the wires to the two homes in the heart of the hills. "Ruth and John coming on the midnight train" (Signed) Mr. And Mrs. John Benton. President Ralph gave them his blessing. There were tears in Mother Maloney's eyes, tears of sorrow at parting with Ruth; tears of joy in the peace of her soul and the new found happiness for the little girl she loved so dearly. She kissed them both and wished them "Godspeed." John took Mother Maloney in his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE arms, told her he would send for her very soon and she knew that promise came from an honest heart. With smiling Irish eyes, blinded a bit by tears she said, "Shure, and I'll be ready." There was general rejoicing in the city of Beverly when the rather mysterious message reached there. There were two happy mothers, a dear father and brother who whispered, "God's Hand Doth Guide," and on bended knees they humbly said, "Father in Heaven, we thank Thee." NO TIME FOR BITTER THOUGHTS By Josephine Gardner Moench I envied my close neighbor The time she had to spare For parties, concerts, bridge and golf, Gowned always with such care. But when I called one afternoon, I found her quite upset By a fancied slight from a husband true, And a tilt with her social set. I breathed a prayer of thankfulness That in my crowded days, There is no time for bitter thoughts, No time for petty frays. The house to clean—the meals prepare— A dress to make for Sue— I can not brood over Nan's retort Nor Paul's jest, misconstrue. My spare thoughts must be on my books To make my lesson sure For the one luxury I grant myself A class in literature. Relief Society Conference (Concluded) Tue LIBRARY MABEL S. NOKES President Boise Stake Relief Society MY dear fellow workers: The Relief Society Library is a subject in which every Stake Board is interested. I do not believe that interest is enough, we must be so converted to it, so converted to the use that we can make of a library, that we can convince our Wards that their Relief Society library will have a definite, vital place in their communities. Because our Wards and Stakes are so different in size and population, _we will have to study carefully and prayerfully to find the kind of library that will best suit our needs. I like the thought of Ward libraries. It seems to me that regardless of the size of Stake or Ward, the Ward library will better fill that ideal of a Relief Society library that Sister Jennie B. Knight gave us about eighteen months ago. "The best reading for the most people at the least cost." There are just a few simple rules that have proved to be good. By following them one Stake has established libraries in the great majority of its Wards. To stimulate interest we had a little contest and in a short given time these wards were to assemble their libraries and place them on exhibition. To the ward having the best library in the judgment of the judges, who were in no way biased, the stake board gave a book. We followed very simple rules. We must have a Librarian, someone who knows and understands books, who loves books and can teach others to love them. If possible she should be a woman who has leisure time, and will accept the calling as a mission, having definite aims in view. We must have a place to keep our books, preferably a cupboard with glass doors, where our books can be seen, but I think we should have the doors locked when the librarian is not present. You know books are like small boys, they are apt to turn up missing just when we want them most. A card index system of filing the books and names of the borrowers should be used. A small fine could be charged for overdue books, and that added to the library fund. Books cost money, and not every Relief Society treasury can buy a lot of books, but there isn't a Ward in the Church that doesn't have the nucleus of a fine library in the text books they have bought from year to year, and if we approach people in the right way they will give a book ——new books, or old books in good condition. We should have at least one set of the standard books of the Church, Church reference books and as many of the biographies of our early men and women. As possible. Their lives are examples of courage and faith that are inspiring to read about. Bound copies of our Magazine are suggested. I suppose you have met the question, "What about fiction? May we put fiction in our libraries?" I say yes, but let us hold to as high a standard as possible. In judging fiction let us not read a book that does not leave us with a finer faith in 116 humanity, and a higher ideal of life. People who have enforced leisure time perhaps may get a great deal of courage just through reading for entertainment. Everyone of you have cupboards of books, but can we call cupboards of books libraries—the ideal Relief Society library? I do not think so. We must have these books read and circulated every one or two weeks in order to call it a library, and here is where the work of the Librarian begins. Can we make our women library-conscious as we are making them Magazine conscious? Can we teach them to form the habit of taking home a book every week? If we can, we have made a big step towards reaching the family, and Sister Lyman will tell us "that if we can reach the family, we can reach the community." Is not that an ideal worth striving for? These Librarians have missions. It is a new department, and we-must give them all the help possible. Just as surely as we Stake Board members strive with all our heart and soul to give inspiration and help to our' class leaders, we should also give that same help and that same feeling toward our Librarians. Every stake class leader should encourage her ward class leader to help the ward librarian. There are several little things that we could suggest to the Wards that would help them hold their libraries. They might give five minutes a week to the librarian to either give herself or have someone whom she knows is competent, review some book, just enough to give them a taste of it, and make the women curious to finish the book. In our public libraries our books are displayed temptingly. Have your librarians visit the public libraries, encourage them to display the books RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as alluringly as possible so that people will be tempted to into them and read them. One of the finest things I think we have been able to do for our librarians is to have our State Librarian talk to them. In our July Union Meetings we asked Miss Leila Bedford, the Idaho State Librarian, to talk to our Presidents and Librarians on Library Methods and The Value of Libraries in Rural Communities. She was so pleased and thrilled with our Library program she gave each of the Wards a list of the books in the Idaho State Traveling Library, and offered to send them boxes of from fifty to one hundred books, any choice they might make, to be kept as long as six months, asking only as thanks that our libraries try to interest and distribute the books to their communities. Are we forgetting that sometimes we can interest women in reading through having a magazine exchange in connection with our library? We can reach outside women, and when we once reach them the possibilities are endless. Let us not forget our children in our libraries. Let us remember that we want to guide their reading. Let us have a hand in putting children's books in our libraries, so they can then turn back the pages of history and become acquainted with the lives of great men and women. We can teach them to read, and let us bear this in mind that we want them to make friends of books. Dear Sisters, let us remember that most of the worthwhile things since the world began started as a movement—sometimes very small. Our Library Movement may not be large but let us make it permanent and vital. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 117 EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES LULA Y. SMITH President Cache Stake Relief Society DUCATION in its fullest meaning is the ability to live intelligently; to live intelligently would be fulfilling all the purpose of life. We are educated for good or evil by all we see, hear, feel or do. Education is the ability to make the proper adjustments to all the problems of life. Every person we meet contributes to our education. Our every day contact with others is the most vital influence in our development. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints offers more opportunities for growth and development than is given to any other people in all the world. Among the most favored of these groups are the women of the Relief Society. Woman's responsibility is not alone with the home, but with the whole world which has to do with our children. John Dewey says, "What the best and wisest parent wants for his own child, that must the community want for all its children." Every child is our child. Home should be a shelter not only against the weather, but against all detrimental forces. The greatest monuments ever erected in the world are erected in the homes. The most potent factor in a child's life is an adult's behavior. To the Relief Society has been given the responsibility of education of the women of the Church. The development of the race depends on the development of the women. There is not anything a woman cannot do, no heights to which she cannot attain if she is living up to her privileges in the Relief Society. The Prophet Joseph said, then the angels could not be restrained from being our associates. There is an old Spanish proverb which reads: "He who would bring back the wealth of the Indies must take with him the wealth of the Indies." Relief Society has developed the finest social contacts the world has ever known. We work and play together and the rules of the game are the rules of life. From Goethe's Immortal "Faust" we get this great lesson—Man lives for man and only as he works for his fellowman can he be saved. When you are in the service of your fellowman you are in the service of God. All we send into the lives of others comes back into our own. The scope of Relief Society work is as broad as life itself. Here is developed the well-rounded education of the intellectual, spiritual, social and physical. The spirit is fed through the Theology lessons and Testimony meetings. To know God is life eternal. A fulness of life is promised to those who seek him diligently. The witness of the spirit is that which sustains. The intellect is fed through the Literary lessons. Literature feeds the desire for beauty; it glorifies the commonplace; it helps us to live with other people. A pearl is a pearl only to those who know its value. All great men and women live close to God. Emerson says, "The world is a temple whose walls are covered with emblems, pictures and commandments of the Deity—the poet is the interpreter." Keates says, in his "Ode to a Grecian Urn," "Beauty is truth. Truth beauty: that is all ye know on earth, and all ye need to know." "O Lord, open thou our eyes that 118 we may see past the tall buildings of the cities and perceive the souls thereof; widen our horizons; give us largeness of heart that we may see the luminous heights above." The Social Service lessons not only help us to recognize home and community problems, but create the desires to do something about it. It is not enough to stand for the truth but we must carry it forward. It develops ability to render better service in our own environment. Learn how you can best serve, then work. 'The Lord is the best pay-master in all creation. It is not how many languages we can speak, but what we can say in one. It is not how many years we have lived, but how well we have lived them. All the lessons are but steps by which we may develop the power to see beyond the written word to the truth it emphasizes. Knowledge is the ladder by which we climb to heaven. Possibly there is no phase of Relief Society work that offers more opportunity for development than the Relief Society Visiting Teachers. They have the educational value of home contacts, the opportunity to inspire faith, to teach, to give courage, to strengthen the family life, to bind up wounds, to enrich the lives of others. To keep a balance of interests, and the opportunity to serve. Kindness is the power God has given us to unlock the door to those who need His blessing. All the pathways to life eternal are through service. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE There is no happiness for anyone today who hasn't a worthy aim or object. Someone has said, "Happiness is great love and much service." If our hearts are full of love and our hands full of service we have solved the riddle of life, for where love is, God is there also. Grace Noel Crowell breathes the spirit of Relief Society work in these few lines: "The day was long, the burden I had borne Seemed heavier than I could longer bear, And then it lifted—but I did not know Someone had knelt in prayer "Had taken me to God that very hour, And asked the easing of the load, and He, In infinite compassion, had stooped down And taken it from me. "We cannot tell how often as we pray For some bewildered one. And distressed, The answer comes—but many times those hearts Find sudden peace and rest. Hurt 'Someone had prayed, and Faith. A reaching hand. Took hold of God, and brought Him down that day! So many, many hearts have need of prayer— Oh. Let us pray." TABERNACLE October 3—2 p.m. Counselor Amy Brown Lyman, Presiding LAURA W. SALZNER Former President Swiss-German Mission Relief Society IN September. 1931, we left our home for the Swiss-German Mission. No doubt there are many of the mothers present whose sons were RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE with us in this far off land. I wish to say that we feel there are no finer, no better young men to be found than those who have labored with us in this mission. We have learned to love them, and to honor the parents of the two hundred and fifty capable, sincere, humble missionaries whom we have labored with. In the Swiss-German mission all of the auxiliaries are organized and doing good work. The Relief Society was organized fifty-three years ago. The first organization was effected in Berne, Switzerland. Two years later an organization was formed in Berlin, Germany. At the present time there are fifty-four Relief Society organizations, with a membership of eleven hundred. Although these members are often separated by many miles, there are one hundred and fifty visiting teachers, who carry the Relief Society message into the homes each month. These organizations are following the lesson course prescribed by the General Boards, and enjoying them, and progress is being made. In each of the fourteen districts, which may be compared to stakes, two conferences are held each year, and it means a saving from a meagre income in order to permit the Saints to attend. In 1933 an important step was taken in the advancement of auxillary organizations when the General Mission Boards were organized, one for each auxiliary organization. This gave local men and women a greater opportunity to be trained and assume responsibility, and to give service. Local district supervisors were also appointed to further effect this organization, and to bring a closer cooperation between the mission and branch societies. Although the members are poor, their hearts are in the work. They 119 are faithful tithe-payers, and loyal in supporting the organizations of the Church. About five years ago the members were asked to pay Annual Membership Dues into the Relief Society—one mark, which is about twenty-five cents in our money. They responded so well to this request that we have now sufficient funds sent in each year to pay all the mission office expenses of the Relief Society, the traveling expenses of the district supervisors, and the traveling expenses of the Mission Board Member who attends the conference. We are most grateful for this response, for we know what a sacrifice it is for these sisters, but they justify all the blessings that come to those who are willing to sacrifice and love the Gospel. Two years ago the "Singing Mothers" were organized throughout the mission, and each district conference. Last Spring these groups furnished the singing for one session of the conferences. They are a music-loving people, and love to sing their beautiful folk songs and the Songs of Zion in their homes and meetings. In order to keep in closer touch with the branch organizations, a monthly report is sent into the mission office. These are compiled into a mission report, and a copy is sent to the district supervisors. On account of. The expense of translating and printing the very fine handbooks which are sent out by the different auxiliary boards of the Church, the organizations have been somewhat handicapped. This difficulty is, however, being gradually overcome. Some of these books are already in the hands of the workers, and others, and the Relief Society handbook is now being translated for their use. These instructions do much to standardize the 120 work and solve many of the organization problems. During the last few years, when the people in Switzerland have been more prosperous than those in Germany, the Relief Societies have gathered new and used clothing, and have sent from thirty to fifty large packages each year into the branches in Germany. This work is under the supervision of the Mission Board, and is distributed to the needy members of the Church in Germany. Much of this clothing is contributed by non-members who have learned of the charitable work of the Relief Society organization, and send their contributions in unsolicited. Although the majority of the women must work and help earn the living, as well as take care of their homes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and family, they find time to do beautiful handwork for their bazaars, which are held each year for the purpose of gathering funds and furthering the work of the organization. The members of the Swiss-German Mission felt highly honored. And greatly appreciated the visit of our dear President, Sister Robison. In that far off land they often feel isolated from the body of the Church 'and this personal contact with one of our leaders brought a closer bond of unity and understanding between them. I bring you greetings from the sisters of the Swiss-German Mission, for they feel you are interested in them, and they are interested in you. GENEVE J. DALTON Former President South African Mission Relief Society I WOULD like to extend to President Robison, her counselors and members of the General Board, together with all the members of the Relief Society here, the greetings and love from all the Relief Society sisters in South Africa. They are indeed interested in the work here, and they look to the sisters of Utah for their inspiration, and, of course, for their guidance in the work. They have just the same desires, I believe, that all Relief Society sisters throughout the world have, to know the Gospel, to live it and to be good Relief Society members. They feel the influence of the wonderful organization, and what it does for women. I learned to love the Relief Society work, and I learned to love the women of the South African Mission, because Relief Society work teaches us to understand women, to feel for them, and inspires the desire to help them. When I left the South African Mission there were sixteen organizations. Some of them very very small, and some of them a good size. The Relief Society has not been organized for so many years, it is really in its infancy there, but it is growing, and while I was there we were able to increase the membership about 200%. We were grateful for this, and would have liked every woman of the Church to be a member of Relief Society. I am sure this is going to come. The Union of South Africa is a very big country; covering as much territory as the United States, so you will know that when we say the members are scattered, we do not mean by a few miles, but by a vast distance, so it was difficult to get the members of the Relief Society together. Some members were on farms, great distances from the cities, but we tried in various ways RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE to reach these people and to make them members of the organization. We were able, during the six years, to hold two Relief Society conventions in the mission, though it was a difficult problem to get women to come so far, and to raise the money to bring them. I am sure that the two conventions we held with representatives from all districts in South Africa, helped the Relief Society work there. I know that it increased the women's knowledge, and they were more capable of carrying the Relief Society work on. There are many districts where we did not even have missionaries to help the sisters, and so it was difficult for new people, who had never done work in the Relief Society before, to get on to this work. The Relief Society Mission President, of course, is unable to visit them very often, perhaps once a year at the most. We have some small organizations with perhaps only two or three members, including the Relief Society President, a First and Second Counselor, and the Second Counselor acts as the secretary. I do not believe there could be two organizations in all the Church that do more effective and efficient Relief Society work than these two little organizations, one of three members and one of four. Where we found just one woman alone, we tried to make her a member of the Relief Society through an inactive non-attendance roll. These sisters would study and sew and make things to send to the different bazaars in the mission to help raise funds for charity. Many of these women who were out alone were able to do that, and we often received parcels from them for our bazaars. Our special activities there were 121 just about the same as we have here for raising our funds. We hold bazaars and concerts. We try everything because we have to scheme and contrive to make money. I have great hopes for the Relief Society in South Africa. I know of the hospitality and love of the women there. There are great possibilities for it. We have many friends. In my travels home, and we went to a great many countries, I could not help but think of the difference in the women of the nations. When we think of the natives of Africa and the nude women, and then we think of the veiled women of India and Turkey, and the women of China, with their bound feet, we cannot help but think of the blessing the Relief Society would be to these women. They are now, of course, overcoming the traditions that have guided them for hundreds and hundreds of years, but I know that the Relief Society is just the organization that will help women and that will teach them and educate them to overcome these things that bind them down. In Palestine and Syria we see the woman sitting in the door of her mud hut, and her children about her in tatters and rags and dirt, and we wonder how people can exist like that and get happiness out of life. Of course they look to the god whom they worship, and they have that instinct that every woman has in the world, to love her children, and do for them, and I suppose that this is the happiness these oriental women get out of life. But, I can only feel proud that I am a member of the Relief Society, and that I have been taught the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE HAZEL B. TINGEY Former President of the Australian Mission Relief Society BRING to you, my dear brethren and sisters, greetings from the far off land of Australia, nine or ten thousand miles away. I wish to extend my appreciation for the Australian saints. I think nowhere in the whole world could we find people who are more hospitable. I think I never had the privilege of entering any home that I was not made perfectly welcome, whether they were members of the Church or not. They seem to have the desire to welcome and" honor their guests, and do all in their power to make them feel at home and at ease. I, too, think we have some of the finest young men in all the Church in the Australian Mission. The cooperation, love, unity and assistance that they gave my husband and myself was remarkable. When you leave the Stakes of Zion, and go out into the world, you begin to treasure the teachings of our Church. When we meet outside people, perhaps who have not had the opportunity of hearing the Gospel message, it makes us realize and see how greatly blessed we are. In Australia we have a territory about the same as the United States. From our most northeastern branch to our western branch we cover a distance of about 4,500 miles, so you can imagine the distance between branches. We have seven million people in Australia, but we have not a very large membership in Relief Society, but a very efficient organization. We have women who are certainly converted to this great work, who are carrying on all the lessons as outline in our Magazine. We have some Relief Society Presidents there who I am sure cannot be surpassed, and they know what the responsibility of the office and calling is. We are striving diligently to spread the work, to make it grow slowly but surely, and to enlighten the other sisters regarding its beauty. We have traveled about 200,000 miles over land and water, that would be enough to go around the earth perhaps about eight times, and never once has there been any sign of an accident. We have been remarkably blessed, and I cannot, if | live many many years, repay my Heavenly Father for His mercy and blessings unto us. We have found, in the mission field, the real joy of service. We have found the life of real happiness. And I am sure that not only people who have gone to the Australian. Swiss-German, South African Missions, but all missionaries the world over, and all we brothers and sisters who are engaged in this mighty work here at home, have found there is no greater way to obtain happiness than in service to our fellow brothers and sisters. Surely the great Master set the example, and He told us that no greater joy could be found than in that way. In the teachings of the Gospel of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and the principles that are held therein, we find the highest standards and ideals of life. Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary Netherlands Mission Space for Picture here HE picture below is a group of seventy-five of the Singing Mothers of the Netherlands Mission. The picture was taken at the first Mission Relief Society Conference held September 29, 1935, in the Rotterdam Chapel. A most excellent account of this very happy event comes from Sister to carry on their part of the work. The Conference began with a testimony meeting at 8:30 in the morning. It was necessary for some of the sisters to leave home at 6 a. M. In order to be in Rotterdam for this early meeting. Ninety-six of the faithful members were present, and bore wonderful testimonies which were faith-promoting to all who heard them. One elderly sister, a GROUP OF SINGING MOTHERS OF THE NETHERLANDS MISSIONS Hermana F. Lyon, President of the Mission Relief Societies. It was quite an undertaking for the sisters of the Mission, but the great interest that was taken, and the remarkable success of the conference, indicates that it may be an annual event. It also gave, as the Relief Society conferences do everywhere, an inspiration for the work throughout the entire season. This conference had the effect of demonstrating to the brethren, the ability of the sisters member of the first Relief Society in Holland, was present on this memorable occasion. During the following meetings held during the day, the program of education and activity as it is sponsored by the Relief Society organization, was given in fine detail. Including a demonstration of correct visiting teachers' work, the proper use of the charity fund, and a splendid demonstration of the lesson work. The ideas for the conference 124 program were suggested by the Relef Society Magazine, and the Bulletins that are sent from the office to the missions. Sister Lyon stressed the very important fact that the Netherlands Mission is not an isolated group, but a part of the great Relief Society as a whole, worldwide in its scope. The practical phases of the work were included, and one very interesting part of the program was a discussion on how to hold a successful bazaar without resorting to raffling. The Relief Society manual, Handicrafts for Every Woman, is welcome in this Mission, and felt to be a great aid in the practical work. At noon a warm lunch was served to the visiting sisters, and in the afternoon the time of the meeting was given over to reports from the branch presidents. This proved to be most successful, and while the women have had little experience in public speaking, they gave very excellent reports, and only two out of the number of Presidents were absent. The music furnished by the chorus of seventy-five Singing Mothers was a most beautiful part of the service. The Conference concluded with the evening session. There were three hundred and eighty-four saints and many investigators present at the conference, which concluded with the evening session. During these remarkable meetings splendid missionary work was accomplished, and a demonstration given of what the Relief Society can do for the women of the Church, To quote Sister Lyon: "It was with regret and thanksgiving that we heard the last song and prayer—regret that our spiritual feast together had come to an end, but sincere gratitude to our Father for the rich outpouring of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE His Holy Spirit upon our gatherings. We will long remember our Testimony and other meetings and the lovely music of our Singing Mothers." Tongan Mission THE Tongan Mission, the most remote from Relief Society headquarters, consists of eighteen branches. The Relief Society President, Sister Martha E. Wolfgram, writes: "Were it not for the handicap in the language there would be 100% Magazine subscriptions in this Mission." The sisters are so appreciative of the letters from the office, and of everything that comes to them. Deep gratitude is felt for the lessons prepared for their use, and they do thrill at the feeling that they are a part of the great whole, and are recognized as such. Conditions in Tonga are different from those in any other part of the Church, perhaps, as there are no poor, no one in dire need. The people have very little money, but food grows in abundance, and everyone has a home. Good use is made of the money which is collected in the organization to help the mission and missionaries. "The Gate Beautiful," a lovely pageant printed in the April, 1935 issue of the Relief Society Magazine, was presented at the district conference, and went over very successfully. "We are ready at all times to do our part in furthering the great work, you can be assured of our following in every way the instructions and advice from the General Board." South American Mission HE first message comes from Sister W. Ernest Young, President of the South American Mission NOTES FROM THE FIELD Relief Society: “We greet you from sunny South America. It is a very interesting place to be. The saints are anxious to learn and do new things. It is a pleasure to work with such an interesting group of sisters as we have in our Relief Society here. We now have two organizations in this Mission, one is German, the other Spanish. Soon we shall organize another branch at Haedo. "Our program of this year follows: (a) Theology; (b) History— Study of Argentine development; (c) Music; (d) Work and Business Meeting; (e) Open day each fifth week, i.e., during a month of the quarter. Our program is to develop interesting work meetings." Parowan Stake VERY beautiful flower show, sponsored by the three Relief Societies of Cedar City and the 125 Cedar City Garden Club, was held in Cedar City, September 14, 1935. Miss Mary L. Bastow of the B. A. C. Judged the display on color harmony and arrangement. The judge remarked that it was one of the most beautiful and well arranged flower shows she had ever seen. More thought was given to color harmony and arrangement rather than species of flowers. There were over one hundred individual entries made. One of the outstanding features of the Show was the three table settings. Each Ward arranged one table. There were two luncheon tables, one formal and one informal, and one dinner table. Fruits and vegetables were emphasized as table decorations. The women all felt that the affair was a fine success and are looking forward to a bulb show which they are planning for next Spring. Flower Show, Cedar City, Sept. 14, 1935 126 Benson Stake "THE remarkable frugality and wide scope of Relief Society activities is shown in the reports that come into the office from the Stakes and Wards of the organization. A very splendid piece of work was accomplished in the Benson Stake in cooperation with the Cache County Red Cross organization. A course in Home Hygiene and Care of the Sick was recently completed, and certificates have been awarded to eighty-nine women, one of the largest classes of this type to successfully complete the work, according to the statement of the National organization. The closing of the course was made the occasion for very fine public exercises, where the value of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Red Cross training and the education the Relief Society women had received, were stressed.. An outline of the work which had been accomplished was given, and recognition was made by the public officials and members of the Relief Society, with appropriate musical numbers. DURING the holiday season all members of Sharon Stake who were ill or home-bound were entertained in a special manner. The Sisters in each Ward divided themselves into groups and visited every home, where a meeting was held followed by a social. Some of those visited had been unable to come out to meeting for years and deeply appreciated and enjoyed these lovely gatherings. PROSE AND POETRY By Della Adams Leitner Washing the dishes and making the beds And cooking the meals each day; Dusting and darning and baking the bread, And putting the clothes away; The endless daily tasks become So tiresome till it seems That mothers know but prose in life, Their poetry but dreams. But oh, the rhythm of pattering feet, The meter of laughter and song, The lilt of child voices in glad delight Bearing love's theme along. And a measured strain creeps into the day Lifting the load of care, Transforming its prose to a poem of joy A lyric of love and prayer. BATTLING STILL By Sara Lyman O the weary, weary waiting For the thing that lies ahead, I am weary of the food I eat And weary of the bed. I am weary of the suffering And weary of the pain, And ever weary wondering When I'll be well again. Then shall I quit the battle I've been fighting all this time, Say the path's too steep before climb That I cannot make the climb? No. For all this weary waiting There is surely some reward, Something safe and sweet and certain, Something I can work toward. For we all must taste the bitter That we might enjoy the sweet. O Lord give strength and courage That I shan't admit defeat. Notes to the Field Relief Society and Missionary Work NASMUCH as the question has been brought into the office from a number of Stakes, we are giving this statement in reference to the matter of the Relief Society and the Missionary work. As Latter-day Saints, there is perhaps no movement dearer to us than that of the missionary work, and we are very anxious, all of us, to do our part in aiding this great cause. In the Church set-up each organization has its definite work to do, and that should be the first consideration. The Missionary movement is an activity of the Priesthood, and what Relief Society women do to further this should be done as members of the Ward. The responsibility of keeping missionaries in the field does not rest with the Relief Society as an organization. During the present emergencies, perhaps more than at any other time, the Relief Society should give its attention to its welfare and relief program. The feeling of the General Board and Presidency in the matter is that if our organizations keep up this work in answer to the demands of the present time, it will be all they are able to accomplish. We urge our women to do their full share in all the Church work, and as we have indicated, we hope they will contribute to the missionary fund, but they do this as individual members of the Church. We do not favor activity for this work within the organization. Care of Records: IN organization is judged by the records it keeps. The Relief Society is justly proud of the fine standards which are set through the careful preparation of its record books. However, reports have come to us form various quarters that due care has not been exercised in collecting and keeping the records of the Relief Society in safe places. This grave responsibility rests with the President and Secretary. We think this is a good time to call to the attention of the Stakes and Wards that these records are of immense value, and suggest that the secretaries take steps to collect all material that is available and see that there is some definite place where these valuable books may be kept with safety for the organization. Make a special effort to get everything of the past that is available, and include it in the records of the Stakes. New Stake Organization: "THE year 1935 was remarkable for many things, but especially for the growth of the Wards and Stakes of our Church. There were many reorganizations and the creation of a number of new stakes. May we take this opportunity of expressing our deep gratitude to all our fine Presidents for the wonderful work they have done, and welcome the new ones to the group. At October conference the record of the new stakes and reorganizations was read, but since that time we have to note the arrival of a new Stake— Bonneville—taken from the Liberty Stake. Sister Cornelia S. Lund succeeds Sister Amy P. Romney as President of the Liberty Stake, and 128 Sister Pearl A. Daynes is President of the youngest of our Stakes— Bonneville. All good wishes to them. Music: WE are almost at the threshold of our Anniversary. Choristers and Organists, have you selected your music for this particular day? Would it not be an appropriate time to sing, as a Special number, the song which the Prophet Joseph Smith loved so well—''A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief?" The trio arrangement can be obtained for ten cents per copy at the Beesley Music Company, 61 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. The March Theology Lesson: "THE impressive theology lesson - for March relates the introduction into the Church of the temple endowment and baptism for the dead. The fact is emphasized and most significant that these holy ordinances may only be administered in places specially built or chosen for the purpose. Such places become holy shrines. The specific revelations concerning this matter explains the fact to many questioning minds of the great urge the saints felt to complete the Nauvoo temple even after the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and amid such poverty and persecution. _ Social Service Lesson: NATION is what its homes are." From the home the child derives his basic ideas of obedience, of citizenship, of respect for authority, his spiritual and religious ideals, and even his ideas of speech. Upon the integrity of the home rests the future promises of life itself. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Read Proverbs 31:27-28. Work and Business: HE condition of floors makes or mars the appearance of every home. In "Handicraft for Every Woman," pages 27-30, much valuable information can be found as to ways and means of improving floors. On page 119, article 7, the method used for filling joinings of sealex is given. This same method can be used for patching worn places in linoleum so the patch is scarcely noticeable. O increase our appreciation of the truly artistic, and our power to translate it into our daily life, is one of the objectives of our new book Handicraft for Every Woman. By its use in our Work meetings the standard of beauty in the home will be raised throughout our Church. Literary Department: WHEN does a book really become a friend? During this month make a friend of at least one character from a great book. A delightful list of those it would be good to meet is found on page 582 of the September Magazine. At the end of the month tell what this friendship has done for you. Teacher's Topic: EACH night in February as you prepare for slumber check on your day's conduct. Have you lost control or have you turned away your wrath with a soft answer? Have you stilled your child's rising anger by answering him mildly and softly? Discuss and memorize Browning's lines found on page 580 of the September Magazine. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN - KATE M. BARKER JULIA A. F. LUND Emma A. Empey Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Annie Wells Cannon Rosannah C. Irvine Emeline Y. Nebeker Jennie B. Knight Nettie D. Bradford Mary Connelly Kimball Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Janet M. Thompson Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Belle S. Spafford Cora L. Bennion Ida P. Beal Donna Durrant Sorensen Amy Whipple Evans Marcia K, Howells Editor Manager Assistant Manaser RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXIII FEBRUARY, 1936 No. 2 EDITORIAL Abraham Lincoln OT only in the United States are thousands paying tribute to Abraham Lincoln on his natal day, February 12th, but in many other lands his virtues are told and men are made better through the example of his wonderful life. His sayings reach the hearts of men and move them to like action. We need today his uncompromising honesty. He said, "You may burn my body to ashes and scatter them to the winds of heaven. You may drag my soul down to the regions of darkness and despair to be tormented forever; but you will never get me to support a measure which I believe to be wrong, although by so doing I may accomplish that which I believe to be right. I know that the Lord is always on the side of the right; but it is my constant anxiety and prayer that I and this nation should be on the Lord's side. "Here are 23 ministers of different denominations and all of them are against me but three, and here are a great many prominent members of churches; a very large majority are against me. I have carefully read the Bible and I do not so understand this book," and he drew forth a pocket New Testament. "These men well know that I am for freedom in the territories, freedom everywhere as the Constitution and the laws will permit, and that my opponents are for slavery. They know this and yet, with this book in their hands, in the light of which human bondage cannot live a moment they are going to vote against me; I do not understand it at all. I know there is a God, and that He hates injustice and slavery. I see the. Storm coming, and I know that His hand is in it. If He has a place and work for me, and I think He has, I believe I am ready. J am nothing, but truth is everything; I know I am right, because I know that liberty is right, for Christ teaches it, and Christ is God. I have told them that a house divided against itself 130 cannot stand, and Christ and reason say the same, and they will find it so. Douglas doesn't care whether slavery is voted up or down, but God cares, and humanity cares, and I care, and with God's help I shall not fail. I may not see the end; but it will come and I shall be vindicated, and these men will find they have not read their Bible right." We need his faith to drive us to our knees. He said, "I have been driven many times to my knees by the overwhelming conviction that I had nowhere else to go. My own wisdom and that of all about me seemed insufficient for that day." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Through his fearless honesty and trust in God's direction, he grew according to his need; his mind mastered the problems that confronted him, and as the problems grew so did his comprehension of them. It is not often that a man is so well fitted to successfully cope with the crises of an epoch-making time. During the four years of the Civil War, while his resources and magnanimity were sorely tried, he was never found wanting. Through his courage, justice, even temper, fertile counsel and his deep humanity 'he stood an heroic figure, the center of an heroic age." Passing of Julina L. Smith T the ripe age of 86 Sister Julina Lamson Smith died at the home of her daughter, Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler, Friday, January 10, 1936, Sister Smith was the wife of President Joseph F. Smith and ever stood by his side aiding him in whatever he undertook to do. She was the mother of eleven children, nine of whom survive her, among them Joseph Fielding Smith, of the Council of the Twelve and David A. Smith, First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric. 72 grandchildren and 25 great-grandchildren are left to honor her..- In addition to her work as wife and mother, which was always well done, she labored for thirty years in the Relief Society Organization, serving as a member of the General Board from 1892 'til 1921. For years she was counselor to President Emmeline B. Wells. She established the burial clothes department while she was in office. She was one of the signers of the Articles of Incorporation. After working for a long time in the Endowment House, she was among the first called to labor in the Salt Lake Temple. She was a successful obstetrician and many mothers bless her for her able and systematic help. Sister Smith once said: "A woman who would make a success of her life must endeavor to make her home an altar of peace, love and companionship. Her husband should rest confident in her gentle solicitude, and her children trust in her unfailing wisdom. Such an ideal does not imply wealth, education nor brilliant gifts. Faith, affection, fidelity, industry, and above all, integrity, constitute the requirements for such a happy woman's life and success." Those who knew her most intimately will testify that she in her life exemplified this preachment. Sister Smith was firm in her conviction, kindly in her attitude, devoted to her family, friends and the Church. Her sons and daughters have a rich legacy bequeathed to them from this noble woman and their illustrious father. EDITORIAL 131 Great Britain Mourns "Two of England's illustrious sons passed to the Great Beyond in January, 1936. Rudyard Kipling, the noted writer, and King George, Great Britain's beloved monarch. These two have played their parts well. The one by contributing to the world's literature lasting poetry and fiction, the other by reigning wisely and well. They will ever be remembered among the illustrious great who have added laurels to Great Britain's galaxy. Dr. Ellis Reynolds Shipp OX January 20th in the historic Lion House Dr. Ellis Reynolds Shipp was the recipient of a family luncheon given by her daughter. Mrs. Ellis S. Musser, followed by a reception conducted by the Yale Camp, Daughters of Utah Pioneers in celebration of her 89th birthday. The past year has been a very happy one for Dr. Shipp. Last June she was honored by the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania and presented with a gold medal for sixty years service in the medical profession. She was graduated from that institution in 1876. She was privileged to address the faculty banquet at that time. After visiting a grand-daughter in Washington, D. C., she returned home in July. In her long life Dr. Shipp has played many parts. Not only has she labored as a physician and nurse she has trained many nurses. She served as a member of the General Board of Relief Society for years. As a charter member of the Utah Women's Press Club and has participated actively in various social and literary societies. Three daughters, one son, thirty-six grandchildren, thirty-three greatgrandchildren and three great-greatgrandchildren look up to this woman who has played such an important part in the history of her people. '"Minnequa Historical Bulletin" WE are in receipt of delightful Christmas Greetings from the officers of the Minnequa Historical Bulletin. We deeply appreciate the pages they have sent containing most valuable information on the pioneer history of the West. The Christmas 1935 Bulletin deals especially with Mormon history. The compilers have been painstaking in their efforts to be accurate and just. We have read the pages with much pleasure and congratulate those who have got them out in the success of their undertaking. Lesson Department Work and Business SUGGESTIONS FOR WORK AND BUSINESS HIS time of year women begin to think about house cleaning and home renovating. The refinishing of floors, the painting of woodwork, walls and furniture have an important place in this planning. Any of these subjects would be fine for a demonstration or a talk in Work and Business meeting. From page 27-45 of Handicraft for Every Woman, instructions and suggestions for all this work are given. STORED away in almost every home one or more old wicker chairs can be found. They are not good enough to use as they are, but are too good to throw away. They have no equal for the porch or garden, and full instructions for the easy way of painting wicker can be found on pages 42-43 of "Handicrafts For Every Woman." Bright, bold-patterned cushions complete the effect. CONSUMER PROBLEMS Lesson VI TO market to market to buy a fat calorie." Only by means of long sustained experiments have the principles of a wholesome diet been laid down. Of course new truth is always being discovered and old pronouncements shaken, yet certain facts continue to uphold the family table. How to find one's way between food-fads on the one hand and exaggerations on the other, how to judge qualities in products, how to avoid Where to seek them, extravagance and yet try out valuable novelties and expend the food budget for wholesome, varied meals, are the essentials. Price has many complex elements in food industry. Fluctuation may be due chiefly to good or bad season of farm products, however, the locality, transportation, refrigeration, terminal facilities, complexity of sale organization, type of stores, kinds of service expected of dealer, type of food such as protein in form of choice meat instead of cheese or legumes, size of container selected, quantity bought at one time, special sales, grade and quality, whether bought in packages or in bulk, time and season of buying, the purpose for which used and storage enter into wise purchasing. For greater satisfaction and economy perishable foodstuffs which vary in price and quality more than any other should be personally selected. A visit to the market will often. Offer new suggestions for the menu. Telephoning an order however saves the housewife much time and energy and is permissible, for good buying, where the price and quality are standardized and where the grocer or butcher has been dealt with some time and may be trusted to fill customer's orders carefully. As a means of precaution and check up it is well to use the kitchen scales occasionally. It is better to buy by definite quantity. The shopper who asks for ten cents worth of this or that is really asking to be cheated. Quality should be stressed most in food buying. With canned and packaged foods the element of fluid buying makes it imperative that the industry is committed to sound practice LESSON DEPARTMENT that sanitation for factories and bakeries be enforced, that impurities and adulteration are ruled out by Pure Food and Drug Administration, all of which can better be done if Mrs. Buyer knows brands and labels and reads them carefully. Questions 1. Make a list of good rules to follow in buying fruit and vegetables, canned and packaged foods, and compare with your own buying habits. How does it score? 2. When is it economical to buy in large quantities? 3. Discuss advantages and disadvantages of packaged food as compared with those bought in bulk. 4. Do vitamins put into fancy containers have more value than the cheaper product bought from miller, farmer, or other producers? 5. Compare home and commercial canning. Which is the most economical? Why? CONSUMER PROBLEMS Lesson VII HEN ready money is scarce and the consumer needs or sometimes thinks she needs something very much she turns to credit. Ordinary expenditures are just ordinary and to a large extent are predictable. Every woman who has attempted to follow a planned budget in her own household knows that bills for rent, food, clothing, laundry, electricity, gas, etc., can be foreseen with some degree of accuracy but that unpredictable troubles develop from the "extras." It takes only one large bill for an emergency surgical operation to unbalance the best of budgets, and such a calamity may come suddenly no matter how carefully and faithfully health habits are observed. Accidents, sickness, death, birth, diminished savings, lost jobs, are hazards which are unforeseeable as to the time they strike, and they do strike most families at some time. If the reserves of all American families provided adequately for sudden needs, then savings, which is for use in just such emergencies could be as accurate as any other item in the budget. But the consumer must meet conditions as they are, and one of these conditions is a result of the amazing growth of installment buying which has become so woven into our present economic life. Whether desirable or not—and only the peculiar circumstances of each person or family can determine that—many do purchase goods on the installment plan. Despite the urge for economy, the high rate of interest, and difficult collection methods used by advertisers of "easy payment" ways, the time payment plan is taken for granted. This being true consumer credit should be used intelligently. Some credit men agree that installment buying is a sound financial investment when it is undertaken with due respect for the family income and when the charge for the accommodation is not too high. Haphazard installment buying is frowned on by all good economists. Before the consumer adopts this method of purchase and before entering into any contract she should as a matter of business know exactly what the carrying charge and rate of interest are. To be safe this plan should be considered as part of household budget and payments made to keep in pace with income so that temptation to buy is not more than can be afforded at one time. Questions 1. When in your opinion is it permissible or advisable to use the installment plan of buying? 2. What is meant by carrying charge? 3. Should your budget be taken into consideration when buying on the installment plan? 4. How much does this form of credit really cost? 5. Compare installment with other forms of credit as to rate of interest charged. 6. Can you afford to use this form of credit? CONSUMER'S PROBLEMS Lesson VIII THE modern trends in buying household textiles makes it imperative that the housewife looks well to her choosing. There has been an increase in use of cotton over silk, wool and linen. This may be due to increased variety and beauty, as well as price. Best grades of cotton are never as expensive as the same grade in other fabrics. Sales of best table linen damask have decreased and the use of rayon, celanese and other synthetic types have increased. Good linen damask is expensive at the outset but with proper care, wears a long time. Rayon in colors and patterns similar to those of linen may be had in many grades, some qualities, however, are as expensive as linen. Less expensive cloths may have rayon patterns on cotton background. The quality of all synthetic fabric is determined by the fineness of yarn, the twist, and closeness of weave. Lace cloths are among best sellers. The majority are cotton and machine made. Handmade linen laces are expensive. If the price is low even if claimed to be "linen handmade" it is well to be skeptical. Handmade filet may be distinguished by the knots at each intersection of mesh. Breakfast and lunch cloths, towels, curtains, stockings are made from various fibres, either separate or in combination, in many colors, sizes and prices. Clearness of fabric. Weight, length, elasticity or stretch at top and ankle, reinforcements, color, finish and size are some points to consider in choosing stockings. When all types of fabrics are considered it is evident that color has invaded the traditional stronghold of white and in some instances such as bed spreads has displaced it altogether. This increased use of color has brightened homes and in most cases beauty and harmony is the result, but it has had its drawbacks in the unstable dyes used. Towels of all kinds, bed spreads, blankets. Pillow cases, table cloths, napkins, have decreased somewhat in size, while sheets have increased in lengths. Although the price of some articles has been lower the past year the real cost has been higher because of the amount of material used. Questions 1. Compare your own habits of buying today with those of three years ago. Is it more practical? Do you get your money's worth? 2. What is meant by "irregulars," "seconds" and "full fashioned" in stocking manufacture? 3. Although sheer hosiery contains less silk, why is it often as expensive or more so than service weight? 4. What is the difference between silk and rayon stockings? CONSUMER'S PROBLEMS Lesson IX NO matter how well the housewife has done her purchasing, the life of the commodity bought may be long or short according to the kind of care given it. If silks, woolens, rayon wear out more quickly than they should it is possible that they have been washed in too hot water, with too strong soap, with too much friction or pressed with too hot an iron. Each kind of fabric or article has its own physical and chemical characteristics and must be treated accordingly. The reaction of solvents used and the handling are different with each fabric. Home laundering once considered a menial task has been dignified by home economics and industrial experts, the result of which increases the wearability of washable garments and household linens. With the greatest amount of care and the least amount of cleansing agents used it costs much to be clean. However, it is not economy to be stingy with soap. It is one of the most important aids in modern housekeeping. It is in almost constant use in every home. Consider then what it means to have available the right soap for a given job. All soaps are not alike. Some have in them certain ingredients that render them unsuitable for fabrics. Others have not the quality for making good suds. Still others require the use of strong arm methods to do their work. One advance in science of cleanliness is the manufacture of packaged soaps. Most of these come in flake beads and granules and can be used with safety on all washable articles. But not all packaged soaps are alike. Inferior varieties have crept into the market which the housewife should guard against for sake of her hands as well as for the fabrics. Flakes sold in bulk at low price should be scrutinized unless they are of a reliable brand and sold by a reputable dealer. Packaged soaps have not replaced the bar type but they make a solution and suds much quicker. The first requisite of good soap is its cleaning quality. Second, it must take out the dirt with minimum rubbing and effort. Third, it must clean without injury to hands or fabric. Thick closely-knit bubbles—the lasting kind—are sign of quality soap, while inferior ones make watery bubbles that quickly burst and disappear. Questions 1. Discuss the safest, most practical and most economical method of caring for such fabrics as silk, wool. Cotton, linen and rayon. How and why do they differ? VICTORS By Joseph R. Meservy We must be tried and taste the bitterness of life. If we endure the sorrow and the strife That chance to meet us as we go our way, And if we're ever faithful day by day, We shall be all the stronger for each ill We've struggled past and overcome, until We'll find ourselves with strength enough to win And always be the victor over sin. BEFORE THE LIGHT GOES OUT By Mary E. S. Abel We left our Heavenly Home on High, rejoicing came to earth Forgetting all we ever knew, our parentage and birth. To here progress, was Father's will, but He could not let us go Until a wondrous plan was given, to guide us here below. Eternal life awaits us, if we life's lessons learn, And live each day to gain His love, 'twill insure a safe return. Free agency is given us, but let's be brave and stout, And prove our loyalty to him Before the Light goes out. Our home can be a Heaven for our lives within can bring More joy than's ever realized in the palace of a king. Where father speaks in loving tones to her who loves his praise, As a sweet continued story of those happy courting days. It lightens every burden, it makes life seem worth while, When father uses kind sweet words and greets her with a smile. It's love that makes home heaven, then why look round about When love is here. Then give her cheer Before her Light goes out. Then mother's eager to return the love and comfort rare, When father uses loving words, for he, too, likes his share. Then freely shower on him, just all the joy you can, And train the children in their love, 'twill make the happiest man To feel love's arms around him, love's whispers soft and low. 'Twill mean so much to him, the love we feel, to know. Love grows with use. Then don't forget to scatter it about And make for him a happy home Before his Light goes out. Or if you have a neighbor, friend, or pal of long ago, And your presence and words of love will cheer him up, you know, Why put it off from day to day? Why till tomorrow wait? And have the saddest feeling, when you've put it off too late. The time to give your flowers, or to speak your words of cheer, Is when your friends are living and they can see and hear. Don't wait until you know that they are down and out, You've lost your chance to do it When the Light goes out. The day we live in is the day of which the Seers have spoken, When Prophets are upon the earth and Heaven's silence broken. A time when Temples speak the praise of Father's wondrous plan By which Salvation reaches out and brings relief to man. No earthly power should hinder us from seeing duty clear, What we, the favored ones, can do for those so near and dear. We can be Saviors—joy supreme, when we hear the pleasing shout Of gratitude—If this we've done Before the Light goes out. Then let's be up and doing while yet the day is clear, For no one knows when cometh night, our days are numbered here. Then every day should be our best and no offense be given To one of Father's children here, if we're approved of Heaven. So let us cheer each one we meet and let them feel and know That we're in very deed a friend. Let this our actions show Don't let one feel that no one cares, if they get down and out. Let's bring good cheer to all we meet, Before the Light goes out. YOU and YOUR CAREER Learn to do well the important tasks set by modern industry. Turn idle time into study time. Be prepared for your opportunity when it comes. Note: Until March 15, make reservations three weeks before you intend to register. L.D.S. Business College Salt Lake City. Preserve Your Magazines by having them permanently bound THERE is a vast amount of valuable reference material in your Relief Society Magazine. You can preserve this material permanently and in attractive book form by having your volumes bound. SPECIAL RATE FOR QUANTITIES The Deseret News Press Pioneer Printers, Binders, Rulers When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 70 North Main Street 29 Richards St. Wasatch 1812 Salt Lake City, Utah How ABOUT YOUR FUTURE? - Life's Uncertainties Require Action on Your Part Right Now—To Bring About — BRIGHTER DAYS —. When You Stop Work—When You Cannot Work. The One Investment Plan, Within Your Reach, That Will do the Right Job—Build a Cash Estate Now, is BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE. SEE A BENEFICIAL LIFE REPRESENTATIVE FOR A POLICY TO FIT YOUR PURSE AND PURPOSE. HOME OFFICE HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT & DIRECTOR STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR ASHBY D. BOYLE, ATTORNEY J. REUBEN CLARK JR., 1ST VICE-PRES. & DIR. DAVID O. MCKAY, 2ND VICE-PRES. & DIR. GEO. J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRES. & DIR. AXEL B. C. OHLSON, SECRETARY & DIRECTOR JOS. FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR E. T. RALPHS, DIRECTOR LEO E. PENROSE, ASST. SECRETARY VIRGIL H. SMITH, ASST. SECRETARY EARLE W. PIERCE, ASST. TREASURER EUGENE P. WATKINS, SUP. R. E. LOAN DEPT. WALDO M. ANDERSON, AGENCY SUPERVISOR DR. W. R. CALDERWOOD, MEDICAL DIRECTOR "I NOW TURN THE KEY TO YOU IN THE NAME OF GOD AND THIS SOCIETY SHALL REJOICE, AND KNOWLEDGE AND INTELLIGENCE SHALL FLOW DOWN FROM THIS TIME." THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. XXIII MARCH 1936 NO. 3 HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS From Factory To You—We Solicit Your Mail Orders New Style $.65 No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style $1.10 No. 85. Very Special Non-Rag, Rayon, Men's and Ladies' No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Combed Yarn. New Style Only $1.10 No. 88. Extra Fine Silk-Rayon Double Combed Yarn. Better Than Part Wool. This Comes Ladies' New Style Only $1.65 No. 81. Med. Wt. Old Style, Double Combed Yarn, Ladies' New Style Only $1.25 Short Sleeves, Ankle Length We Mark Garments For 10c We Charge 10% Extra For Extra Sizes. Please Specify When Ordering Your Bust, Waist, Hip and Length, Whether New or Old Style, and if Men's or Ladies'. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. THIS IS ALSO THE PLACE TO OUTFIT THE MISSIONARY WITH ONE OF THOSE FAMOUS RAMBOUILLETTE SUITS This is one of our Specials WE HAVE LARGE ASSORTMENT OF HEAVY WORSTEDS AT Our Famous Rambouillette Serge. Extra Single or Double Breast. Pants, $4.00 Extra Pants, $4.00 WE ALWAYS GIVE SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO THE MISSIONARY 14 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Don't Be An "EYE CRIPPLE" There are certain kinds of light that do serious injury to the eyes—Those that glare, and are not properly placed. If you value your eyes and the future use you intend to make of them, then equip your home with an I. E. S. APPROVED LAMP Many models on display at our local stores from which to choose. $4.95 and up. Electricity is the Biggest Bargain in the Home Utah Power & Light Co. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 88. Lt. Weight Men's and Ladies' No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' No. 86. Extra Fine Rayon and Double Combed Yarn, Men's and Ladies' No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles $. 85 Ladies' New Style $. 85 in Winter Weight Men's New Style $1.05 Peerless Laundry SNOW WHITE CLOTHES Exclusive Family Service Service Above All SALT LAKE PROVO OGDEN PRICE PAYSON MANTI CRYSTAL PALACE Market 1st South at 3rd East—17th South at 5th East 1st South Temple at 2nd East We Are Proud to Serve the People of Utah with UTAH GROWN—UTAH PACKED FOOD PRODUCTS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 1184 East 21st South Phone Hy. 2182-2183 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints VOL. XXIII MARCH, 1936 No. 3 CONTENTS Courage Leading On...Bertha A. Kleinman General Board of Relief Society—Frontispiece Birthdays...Louise Yates Robison How Big?...Alberta H. Christenson How Can We Strengthen Our Homes?...Amy Brown Lyman Opportunity...Kate M. Barker The Underprivileged Child...Lucy Woolley The Dean of Auxiliaries...Judge Oscar W. McConkie Song for Morning...Katherine Fernelius She Came to Scoff...Clara Perman The Forum on Current Problems...Julia A. F. Lund I Love Old People...Caroline Eyring Miner A Case of Devotion...Superintendent Ralph B. Keeler Achievement, 1842-1936...Annie Wells Cannon And Angels Shall Attend...Dorothy Clapp Robison A Typical Case...Edna May Irvine Is Your Child Afraid of Storms?...Virginia B. Jacobsen Faith's Comfort...E. Heloise Merkley What Contribution Can The Home and Community Make for the Advancement Of Music?...Adeline Rasmussen Ensign Mother Makes a Rag Carpet...Zipporah L. Stewart Why Was The Prophet Joseph Smith's First Vision The Vision of the Father and the Son?...Isaac B. Ball A Welcome Visitor...Clarissa A. Beesley What to Serve at Our Birthday Party...Camilla E. Kimball Happenings...Annie Wells Cannon A Singing Heart...Ada Hurst Brown Notes to the Field Notes from the Field...Julia A. F. Lund Editorial: The Key Turned for Women Leadership Week Modified Plan Relief Society Song 137 138 139 140 141 144 145 146 148 149 153 156 157 158 162 167 175 177 178 181 184 185 187 190 191 195 197 200 202 203 203 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine BUY NOW AND SAVE We have made this slogan mean much to homes in Salt Lake, all over Utah, Southern Idaho, and parts of Wyoming and Nevada. We are out of the high rent district and own our own building and warehouse; buy in carloads for cash and take advantage of all cash discounts. GRANITE COMPANY 1050 East 21st South St. NATURE'S MOST PERFECT FOOD AND ECONOMICAL TOO FOR HOME DELIVERY—PHONE ARDEN DAIRY PURE AT THE SOURCE L.D.S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES No. 68. Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, Old Style 85c—New Style $.75 No. 500. Super Non-run Rayon, Short Sleeves and Knee Length $1.20 No. 74. Ribbed Lt. Wt. Fine Combed Cotton $.90 No. 73. Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton Silk Stripe, Ladies' New Style Only $1.25 No. 64. Lt. Med. Wt. Bleached Combed Cotton $1.25 No. 62. Med. Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton $1.65 No. 56. Extra Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton $1.95 No. 82. 88. 1-3 Wool $3.50 No. 70. 10% Wool Silk Stripe $3.85 In ordering garments please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted; also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 10c. An additional charge of 20% will be made on orders for persons weighing 210 pounds or over. SALT LAKE CITY UTAH 57 Years L.D.S. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. No. 144. Light weight cotton, New Or Old Style $. 85 No. 1118. Med. Hvy., Wool and Cot. Mixed $3.50 No. 33. Spring Needle, Lt. Wt. Cotton, New or Old Style $1.25 No. 472. Elastic Knit, Light Weight, New Style Only $. 75 No. 205. Fine rib, Med. Weight, New or Old Style $1.35 No. 609. Run resist rayon, Ladies New Style Only $1.10 No. 405. Run resist rayon, New or Old Style $1.35 No. 1758. Ecru or White, Med. Heavy Old and Men's New Style $1.65 No. 464. Rib. Knit, Med. Wt., Ladies' New Style Only $1.35 No. 1144. Heavy Weight Cotton Ecru Old or New Style $1.95 Established in making L.D.S. Garments in 1879. HARMON & CO. 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine FISHER'S VITAMIN "D" BREAD HELPS BUILD Strong Bones and Better Teeth Your doctor will tell you that your child needs plenty of Sunshine Vitamin "D". Fisher's Vitamin "D" Bread—both white and whole wheat—supplies the extra Vitamin "D" to help growing boys and girls build strong bones and better teeth. At good grocers everywhere. FISHER'S VITAMIN "D" BREAD Baked by master bakers in the large home-owned AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 A. M. To 5 P. M. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS Of Superior quality and workmanship manufactured for the SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE And sold at prices defying competition. When ordering from us remember we Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. FOR LADIES Light Weight Cotton Ribbed Flat Weave Spring Needle No. 635 $1.00 Non-Run Rayon Ribbed Light Weight No. 662 $1.25 Non-Run Rayon Fine Quality Cotton Lisle No. 602 $1.35 Medium Weight Cotton No. 614 $1.50 Non-Run Rayon Super Quality No. 620 $1.65 No. 664 $1.75 No. 660 $1.95 FOR MEN Ribbed Lt. Wt. Men's $1.00 Non-Run Rayon Extra Fine Quality Lisle No. 611 $1.25 Med. Wt. Ex. Quality, Men's $1.35 Light Wt. Double Back No. 622 $1.50 Med. Hvy. Wt. Cot. Double Back $1.50 Silk and Wool Medium Weight $1.95 50% Wool Heavy Weight $2.25 Garments Marked Upon Request. 10c Per Pair Extra Prices Subject to Change Without Notice. 20% Extra Charge for Sizes Over 46. Do not fail to specify New or Old Style and if for Man or Woman. Also state if long or short sleeve, short or long legs are wanted. Give accurate Bust Measurements. Height and Weight. Samples Sent Upon Request. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah—OLDEST KNITTING STORE IN UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Courage Leading On Inscribed and dedicated to Zion's Sisterhood in the rank and file of Relief Society By Bertha A. Kleinman O sing a Song of Service, let it sound from sea to sea, As Zion hails her daughters of Relief Society, Across the hills and valleys, list the workers symphony! As Courage leads them on Humanity is calling for the test of fortitude, The world replies with armies and the ranks of brotherhood, But Zion speaks in Priesthood and her glorious womanhood, As Courage leads them on In sorrow and affliction and the calls of charity, In high or lowly station, or wherever it may be, The messengers stand ready in Relief Society, With Courage leading on GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Photo by D. T. Davis. The Relief Society Magazine MARCH, 1936 VOL. XXIII No. 3 Birthdays by President Louise Yates Robison DID those fine women of Nauvoo have vision of a future for Relief Society? When it was organized what did they expect the standards would be in 94 years? How nearly are we carrying out their aims in meeting conditions today? Birthdays are milestones and a review of the past as well as plans for the future seem appropriate. The record of Relief Society is evidence that the "naked have been clothed—the hungry fed and the sorrowing comforted." Many have had loving service of which no record has been kept. We can celebrate our birthday— March 17th—with feelings of gratitude and satisfaction for the accomplishments of the past, but with solicitude for the future, we must find where we can improve. For a hundred years we have been taught correct principles by inspired leaders. The challenge for each of us today is: How are we teaching these principles in our homes? Those who make the excuse that "times have changed" may not realize that often it is the method of meeting the situation that has changed. Honor and truth and loyalty are as essential today as they ever have been. In a testimony meeting recently a young woman made an appeal to mothers to help develop in their children a greater respect for the Sabbath. I wish every young mother could have heard her speak of her own childhood. Preparation for Sunday began on Saturday morning when her mother would assign the different household tasks. When the sweeping, dusting and scrubbing were accomplished, food was prepared to make unnecessary any cooking on Sunday. Not all of the children had special Sunday clothes, so the best they had were cleaned and pressed; shoes were shined and baths taken. When the material things were in readiness, there was always an hour for Bible stories or Sunday School lessons. When Sunday morning came it was different from other days—there was order and peace. Children were not urged to attend Sunday School—they were prepared—and eager to go. This was not an unusual home. Many of my readers had the same experience in their childhood. Could not this same program be adopted today with profit? It was my good fortune to be acquainted with the wonderful mother of the Sister who described her girlhood home. Three of her children are now my friends. One is a counselor in a Stake Presidency. One in the Relief Society Stake Presidency and one is the Stake President of Primary. Relief Society's project is Bible reading in the home. This comprehends more than the number of chapters read by the Mother. It means teaching the children to know the contents of the Bible by telling stories appropriate to the age of the child. A delightful method of teaching the Scriptures is used in one of the mission homes which I have been privileged to visit. When the group comes to the dinner table, each person gives a favorite Scriptural passage; this makes an harmonious atmosphere for the blessing on the food which follows. The "Articles of Faith" or the Sunday School Sacrament Gem can be taught in the same manner. Respect for the General Authorities of the Church and an interest in their lives can readily be taught by remembering birthdays in the home. If on the birthday of the Prophet Joseph Smith or of President Grant, the mother would plan a special treat for dinner, flowers for the table or a birthday cake and the children who are old enough would be prepared to tell some incident in the life of the honored one, a lasting impression could be made. Before the baptism of one of the children or the young son becomes a Deacon, the whole family should be taught why these ordinances are performed and make a real event of the occasion. Prayer, tithing, the Word of Wisdom and many other important principles can be taught in the home when children are young. It requires care and thought, of course, but may we not find that "times" have not changed so much as the attitude of parents? Having a son or daughter interested in the Church or holding a position of responsibility is the most glorious compensation for any effort that parents make. My birthday wish for the members of the Relief Society is that we make the standards of our Church the foundation upon which we build our lives. They are our only safeguards in a world of doubt. HOW BIG? By Alberta H. Christensen I cannot tell how big I am 'Cause things have sort-of mixed me up. Suppose I take some doughnuts, Just three or four or so— My mother says, "Enough, my son, You're pretty small, you know." But if I scratch my elbow Upon the garbage can, Why then she says, "There, there, don't cry, You're mother's great big man." I cannot tell how big I am, 'Cause things have sort-of mixed me up! How Can We Strengthen Our Homes? By Counselor Amy Brown Lyman FOR convenience and clarity this subject will be presented under three topics—Preparation for Home Life and Parenthood; Organization of Home Life; Ideals and Standards: High standards of home life and high ideals are a great protection and a powerful aid toward righteous and successful living. They help to regulate our lives and our behavior, to furnish motives, to stimulate ambition, to govern our choices and decisions. They help us to resist temptation, evil and wrong-doing. Home standards are first set by the new home-makers or newlyweds, and depend, in a large measure, on their background and training. They are based largely on the standards of the homes which the young people have just left. As time goes on they may be raised and improved, or again, unless great care is exercised, they may be lowered. If high standards are set and maintained in the home and riveted in the minds and lives of children, they are apt to remain as a guide and influence throughout life. They will form the strongest weapon of defense, and will become as mighty armor in the battle of life. Latter-day Saints accept all of those excellent ideals and standards of living as defined and set up by social economists, educators and moralists, and considered by them as fundamental to the highest physical, mental and moral growth. This position is supported by the Thirteenth Article of Faith—"We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to ALL MEN: indeed we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul: We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy we seek after these things." They believe that homes should be clean, well kept and sanitary; that there should be the proper kind of food for growth and sustenance; that there should be opportunity for physical and mental health, for education, character development, recreation, moral and spiritual growth. They foster family solidarity, family pride and righteous ambition. They encourage cooperation and reciprocation in the home, also good ethics and good behavior. They strive to minimize friction, and lessen family tensions. But in addition to all this Latter-day Saints have the restored Gospel with its comprehensive plan of life and salvation as a guide to their feet and a light to their paths. Latter-day Saints agree with sociologists that the family is the most important of the social institutions. They believe, in addition, that it is a most sacred and holy institution and that family life is the most important of all human relationships. This conclusion is based upon their belief in pre-existence, in a future life, in the immortality of the spirit, and in the eternal and everlasting union of husbands and wives and of parents and their children. The Latter-day Saint standard of marriage is the Temple marriage ceremony. Simple and without ostentation, it is dignified, impressive, and comprehensive. In connection with it a vow of chastity is taken which is a glorious consecration, and a powerful influence in preserving the high single standard of morality for which the church has always strongly stood and which generally has resulted in good morals and in happy marriages. Tithing is accepted by Latter-day Saints as a law of God to man. To observe the law is to be obedient to our Heavenly Father. The law contains promises of rewards, but the greatest blessing is no doubt the satisfaction which comes from obedience to a law of God. Important among the guides to right living is the Word of Wisdom, a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith in the interest of temporal salvation. This document, which emphasizes the proper care of the body, condemns tobacco and alcohol, advises against the use of hot drinks and other stimulating foods, and promises unusual blessings to those who observe it. Other ideals and helps to spiritual development are family and secret prayers and the blessing on the food; the observance of the Sabbath Day, including attendance at Sacrament Meetings and partaking worthily of the Lord's Supper; the observance of Fast Day. Fast Day observance is most important and beneficial. It is a blessing to those who give and to those who receive, and is a most appealing and satisfactory opportunity of being a "good neighbor." The greatest asset to any home is spirituality. It is the most dynamic force for good that we know anything about. Real spirituality. However, does not just happen, it is not a thing separate and apart from our every day lives, to be had and enjoyed at will. It comes as a natural result of faithful, consistent, righteous daily living and obedience to God's laws. MY PRAYER Dear Lord, let me see life always as I do today, Keep Thou my footsteps, lest they go astray, Take away the indecision and the fear, Help me make the ones I love, each day more dear, Do not let my mind go back to miseries past, Or let mistakes I've made dark shadows cast; Help me to be a model mother, wife and friend, And keep me loyal and devoted to the end. —Alice Marie Stoddard. Opportunity By Counselor Kate M. Barker WHAT do men in this audience think today is the best gift that God on high could give a human being?.. "The best gift that I can conceive that God could give to one human life is opportunity. A man may be an excellent surgeon, and may have his work at his fingers' end, but if he never finds anyone who needs his help, he can never attain to success in life. Only the men to whom God gives an opportunity to do things can make a success of life.... "What was Christ's joy? It certainly was not in ease and comfort; it was not in long life or in the applause of men; it was not in riches and things of that kind. Who will question, when we come to really think of it, that those things are paltry things compared with the lasting joy of having done things?"— Sir Wilfred T. Grenfell. IN order to meet intelligently opportunities that come to us, we must have an informed mind, we must know the facts and understand their meaning, we must be able to think clearly. Much of the world's weakness and many of its wrongs come from lack of straight and honest thinking. We must know the truth if the truth is to make us free. But important as correct ideas are, they alone are not enough. Combined with these intellectual guides we must have right ideals, motives, loyalties—those motivating qualities which come from the heart. Mind and heart must work together: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. And with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind." Our educational courses in Relief Society have been preparing the women of the Church to meet opportunities for service intelligently. Perhaps never were a group of women better prepared. But are we becoming more concerned with our own self-development than with the service we can render others? Do we realize that a self-centered life tends to defeat its own purpose? Every single addition we make to our livesd Standards; and this is done without regard to sequence in subject matter and with a realization that topics necessarily overlap. Preparation for Home Life and Parenthood: In any discussion of The Home and Home Life, we naturally go back to some of the fundamental elements that go to make up the ideal home. We are reminded of what Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes said—that in order to have an ideal home and ideal home life and the right kind of children, we must start with the great-grandparents. He placed great stress upon the influence of heredity and background and upon the importance of proper mating. Dr. Edward T. Devine holds that if the home is to fulfil its proper function it must meet certain minimum specifications, material and moral, and of these specifications he says the fundamental ones, from the child's point of view, are "that the home should be founded on true love and marriage; that the parents should be healthy in mind and body, or at the very least free from transmissible defects and disease; that the father should be able and willing to provide an income, and that the mother should be able to manage a home and have the intelligence and disposition to give children the care which they need." It is being realized more and more that young men and women should have special training and education for home life and parenthood; that these subjects are far more important than Greek, Latin or mathematics. And it is gratifying that in some of our schools and colleges today courses are being given in The Family and Family Life. Miss Johanna Colcord, a student of family life, maintains that much of the family trouble today resulting in divorce and desertion is due to the fact that boys are not trained to work and make a living, and girls are not trained to be home-makers and mothers. Organization of Home Life: Our attention in this article is especially directed to our question, which amplified is—What can Relief Society women today do to strengthen their homes which are already long established and which have shown some weak spots? We cannot begin over again. Perhaps there is a way by which we can improve and strengthen them if we but give sufficient thought to the matter. Perhaps a survey of our own homes by ourselves, based on certain accepted standards and ideals, some of which we shall attempt to enumerate, might reveal some latent potential strength which we possess, as well as our weakness, and point the way to correction and improvement. Stocktaking is as valuable in personal and family affairs, and may be as profitable, as stock-taking in business. Social economists tell us, in the first place, that a home should cost no more than double the yearly income, or the income for two to three years, never to exceed three years: that people who go beyond this are sure to meet financial difficulties, unless rescued by a streak of good luck, which is rare and not to be depended upon. They tell us also that home life should be organized and regulated just as a business is organized and regulated; that income and expenditure should be formulated into a budget arranged by the family jointly—a budget which includes all of the receipts and disbursements. For either parent to have secret receipts and disbursements is not conducive to harmony and real efficiency. If there is a regular income, and it can be arranged, the wife, as a partner, should have an allowance for which she is responsible; each child should also have a definite allowance, however small. There should be a division of work and responsibility in the home; a lively sense of obligation; willing cooperation and reciprocation. There should be a sharing of advantages and sacrifices. In home operation there should be a definite weekly schedule, with certain days for certain work; also a definite daily schedule, a regular hour for doing the various daily tasks, regular hours for arising in the morning and for going to bed at night and for meals. There should be a time for every task and every task accomplished in its time— a place for everything and everything in its place. Ideals and Standards: High standards of home life and high ideals are a great protection and a powerful aid toward righteous and successful living. They help to regulate our lives and our behavior, to furnish motives, to stimulate ambition, to govern our choices and decisions. They help us to resist temptation, evil and wrong-doing. Home standards are first set by the new home-makers or newlyweds, and depend, in a large measure, on their background and training. They are based largely on the standards of the homes which the young people have just left. As time goes on they may be raised and improved, or again, unless great care is exercised, they may be lowered. If high standards are set and maintained in the home and riveted in the minds and lives of children, they are apt to remain as a guide and influence throughout life. They will form the strongest weapon of defense, and will become as mighty armor in the battle of life. Latter-day Saints accept all of those excellent ideals and standards of living as defined and set up by social economists, educators and moralists, and considered by them as fundamental to the highest physical, mental and moral growth. This position is supported by the Thirteenth Article of Faith—"We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to ALL MEN: indeed we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul: We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy we seek after these things." They believe that homes should be clean, well kept and sanitary; that there should be the proper kind of food for growth and sustenance; that there should be opportunity for physical and mental health, for education, character development, recreation, moral and spiritual growth. They foster family solidarity, family pride and righteous ambition. They encourage cooperation and reciprocation in the home, also good ethics and good behavior. They strive to minimize friction, and lessen family tensions. But in addition to all this Latter-day Saints have the restored Gospel with its comprehensive plan of life and salvation as a guide to their feet and a light to their paths. Latter-day Saints agree with sociologists that the family is the most important of the social institutions. They believe, in addition, that it is a most sacred and holy institution and that family life is the most important of all human relationships. This conclusion is based upon their belief in pre-existence, in a future life, in the immortality of the spirit, and in the eternal and everlasting union of husbands and wives and of parents and their children. The Latter-day Saint standard of marriage is the Temple marriage ceremony. Simple and without ostentation, it is dignified, impressive, and comprehensive. In connection with it a vow of chastity is taken which is a glorious consecration, and a powerful influence in preserving the high single standard of morality for which the church has always strongly stood and which generally has resulted in good morals and in happy marriages. Tithing is accepted by Latter-day Saints as a law of God to man. To observe the law is to be obedient to our Heavenly Father. The law contains promises of rewards, but the greatest blessing is no doubt the satisfaction which comes from obedience to a law of God. Important among the guides to right living is the Word of Wisdom, a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith in the interest of temporal salvation. This document, which emphasizes the proper care of the body, condemns tobacco and alcohol, advises against the use of hot drinks and other stimulating foods, and promises unusual blessings to those who observe it. Other ideals and helps to spiritual development are family and secret prayers and the blessing on the food; the observance of the Sabbath Day, including attendance at Sacrament Meetings and partaking worthily of the Lord's Supper; the observance of Fast Day. Fast Day observance is most important and beneficial. It is a blessing to those who give and to those who receive, and is a most appealing and satisfactory opportunity of being a "good neighbor." The greatest asset to any home is spirituality. It is the most dynamic force for good that we know anything about. Real spirituality. However, does not just happen, it is not a thing separate and apart from our every day lives, to be had and enjoyed at will. It comes as a natural result of faithful, consistent, righteous daily living and obedience to God's laws. MY PRAYER Dear Lord, let me see life always as I do today, Keep Thou my footsteps, lest they go astray, Take away the indecision and the fear, Help me make the ones I love, each day more dear, Do not let my mind go back to miseries past, Or let mistakes I've made dark shadows cast; Help me to be a model mother, wife and friend, And keep me loyal and devoted to the end. —Alice Marie Stoddard. Opportunity By Counselor Kate M. Barker WHAT do men in this audience think today is the best gift that God on high could give a human being?.. "The best gift that I can conceive that God could give to one human life is opportunity. A man may be an excellent surgeon, and may have his work at his fingers' end, but if he never finds anyone who needs his help, he can never attain to success in life. Only the men to whom God gives an opportunity to do things can make a success of life.... "What was Christ's joy? It certainly was not in ease and comfort; it was not in long life or in the applause of men; it was not in riches and things of that kind. Who will question, when we come to really think of it, that those things are paltry things compared with the lasting joy of having done things?"— Sir Wilfred T. Grenfell. IN order to meet intelligently opportunities that come to us, we must have an informed mind, we must know the facts and understand their meaning, we must be able to think clearly. Much of the world's weakness and many of its wrongs come from lack of straight and honest thinking. We must know the truth if the truth is to make us free. But important as correct ideas are, they alone are not enough. Combined with these intellectual guides we must have right ideals, motives, loyalties—those motivating qualities which come from the heart. Mind and heart must work together: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. And with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind." Our educational courses in Relief Society have been preparing the women of the Church to meet opportunities for service intelligently. Perhaps never were a group of women better prepared. But are we becoming more concerned with our own self-development than with the service we can render others? Do we realize that a self-centered life tends to defeat its own purpose? Every single addition we make to our lives increases our responsibility. Jesus, who set the example, had the greatest of inner strength and purity, but led a life remarkable for its objective interests. He "went about doing good." To those with whom He came in contact He brought joy and happiness. OPPORTUNITIES for doing good are on every hand. We were told by the Prophet to "assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to the highest level." Are we meeting this opportunity for service, or are we passively permitting the dollar value to take precedence over the value of human souls? Changes do not come by thinking fine thoughts or by forming good resolutions alone— changes come when these ideals and resolutions find their way into action. Perhaps, as never before, the world needs clear thinking, resulting in courageous action—not just daydreaming. We cannot shut our young people out from environmental influences, we can only try to improve those influences. In our smaller towns, where the majority of the population are people with the same ideals, surely if the women unitedly work for Gospel standards in community activities, great good can be accomplished. Opportunities do not only come in helping to solve the big problems of the world, but in all the little contacts of every-day life, and here is where most of us fall short. Any opportunity for kindness is a big opportunity. A British Prime Minister was asked: "How big is the under-secretaryship for B............ ?" "As big as the Under-secretary," he replied. How big are the seemingly little opportunities for service all about us? In their possibilities for doing good and increasing happiness they are as big as we make them. Perhaps the greatest contribution that most of us will be able to make is right where we are in our own home and in our own community. But most of the work of building a better world must be done in and through ordinary jobs, in the home and in improving local conditions. By seeing the opportunities there and meeting them, we contribute to the great work of building the Kingdom of God on earth. THE UNDERPRIVILEGED CHILD By Lucy Woolley Poor little one, you tried so hard to learn, Your eyes raised trustfully, with eagerness to mine; And o'er and o'er the word forms slowly traced, Your wee lips sounding each one, line by line. You finally grasped one—how your eyes would beam! "I know it ev'ry time—it's here, and here! I won't forget"—but lo, when morning came, 'Twas then as if that word you'd never seen. "I want to learn to read—the others can— Why can't I 'member what the words should be?" "It just takes time, dear, but together you and I Will climb this reading hill of yours and see What fun it is when all the words we know And we can read and read, so gay and free." Then you would smile, but in that smile I'd see A trace of yearning mixed with sadness, too. You'd tried so hard—some did not seem to try, And yet they rambled on—left you behind. Where have I failed that you can't journey on To realms of pure delight in Storyland? Is there some way to reach your meagre mind? Oh, God in Heaven, make me understand! The Dean of Auxiliaries By Judge Oscar W. McConkie to exhaustion, in aid of broken bodies, not your kin; and if you have moistened their fevered lips, and made their sorrows bearable; or, if you have buried their dead, and with bleeding heart have offered condolence, sympathetically; or, if, as in agrarian districts, you have traveled far, facing biting cold and blinding storm, cheerfully, in quest of desolate homes with barren floors, their boards acreak, and with cracked walls and dilapidated roof, and gaping and calcitrant disputants not infrequently the object of your search; or, if you have heard the wail and felt the sorrow of aching hearts, and have done something about it; or, if, as a devotee of divine excellences, you have been strong and of good courage; and have searched, eager eyed, for the demonic chains that enslaved a fellow being, and sought his release, being all the while aware of the ingratitude of the donee of your benevolence, and yet grew not disheartened nor contemptuous, then you are in some measure a comprehender of the A B C of Relief Society work. If your weary hands have worked THE Relief Society is the earth's most Christ-like woman's organization, to which membership virtuous women are eligible. It is a loyal supporter of Aaronic and Melchizedek authority. It succors the needy and by aimful and able-minded administration imparts its substance to the poor. It is the artery through which Church relief flows, but sums allowable out of its alms chest are secret, given thoughtfully. Although not faultlessly administered, we are adorers of its delightful purposes and exalted program. It exemplifies true religion: reflects a spirit of angeldom, and its unselfish neighborliness approaches the love of self. It "suffereth long, and is kind," and envieth not any. It invites both commoners, in their humble surroundings, and the wealthy, in their spacious palaces, to aid its cause. It "is not puffed up," but in humility seeks the Lord's purposes, reflectively. It "thinketh no evil," for its meditations are fixed upon the needs of the poor. It rejoices in revealed truth, to which it clings in preference to the conflicting philosophies of men, as it accounts God as wiser than all men. It "beareth all things" patiently, without murmuring, and "believeth all things" whatsoever the Lord has said. It "hopeth all things," with faith unwavering, and "endureth all things" because of Christ. It is a developer of affability; a cementer of celestial ties; an alleviator of sorrows, and an impediment before ruin. Because it has not shut its hand "from the poor," but has opened "wide unto him," the cry of the poor has not ascended unto the Lord against it. "Mercy and truth" are bound "upon the table" of its heart. "BLESSED are the poor in spirit who come unto me, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." To lead the poor in spirit unto the Lord is the socializing that the Relief Society purposes. It approaches the problem by satisfying the hunger, physically and spiritually, and by clothing the subject's body. Through excellence in planning, and understanding in execution of program, baleful influences are destroyed, and mischievous standards, wherever possible, are replaced with a more creditable course of conduct. This renewing of hopes, satisfying of hunger, and protection of the body against the elements, is accompanied by a devoted and sympathetic tenderness that is helpful to all classes of people. By such means the Society hopes to citizenize according to Church standards. It aids the socially, intellectually, and spiritually underprivileged, and therefore imprisoned, to rid their aching limbs of the chains that are forged upon them. Thus many stupid, blundering, or recalcitrant fellows, as well as humble honest souls, whose lives have been touched with adversity too heavy to bear, and who would be glad if they could find the grave, are the subjects of its mercy. Like unto Abraham, it first ran and fetched "a morsel of bread" to comfort the heart, and like unto Isaac and Jacob, through affirmative action, it has sought the favor of the Lord. Collectively it is an accomplisher of divine purposes, and teaches those whom it approaches to serve one another. In well doing its hands are not stayed. "Blessed are they who have labored diligently in his vineyard." In all its activities it collaborates with the priesthood, under direction of which all its activities are performed. Both its officers and members have great concern for the poor, and administer their work in humility, and with love and devotion. It is a benevolent institution, whose knees "have not bowed unto Baal." EVERY standard of righteousness, regardless of how trivial it may appear, that, directly or indirectly, leads toward God, is a standard of the Church, and is worthy respectful observance. Every standard, whether it be idleness, card playing, evil thinking, violation of the Word of Wisdom, dishonoring the Sabbath Day, or any act of commission or of omission whatsoever, whether committed or omitted regularly or intermittently, that tends in any degree to lead one from God is in opposition to the standards of the Church, and is at war with God. That there might be unanimity of comprehension the Lord has placed a prophet at the head of the Church, who, from time to time speaks agreeably to the will of the Lord, for the Church. The Relief Society is a helpmate to the Priesthood. It is the dean of auxiliaries, and is not an assailer of Church standards. It is an affirmer of them, and stands courageously for them, as interpreted by the Priesthood of the Church, which standards are achievable. Its belief in the Lord demands a wholehearted acceptance of the whole law, and it makes no segregation of standards based upon individual opinion. Therein lies its strength. Since God is unchangeable the rational conclusion is that He counts its belief "for righteousness." It delights in well doing, and rebels not "against the Lord," nor fears "the people of the land." "HE that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another." The Relief Society is peculiarly adapted to the promotion of peace, which seeds it has sown, and it "shall reap in joy." Its officers and teachers visit the homes of all the people of the Church, and artfully, having great delight in their peaceful expectation, teach discussable truths, as well as administer to the physical needs of the people. It discourages disputations, believing that contentions degenerate man, and leave him blamable, and that hatred is the goddess of ruin. By precept and by example, and by charities variously expressed, it adapts itself to the needs of all the people of the Church. It acts humbly, and not with greedy eyes, nor with stubborn will, nor with caprice, but simply, all the while motivated by love, and by the hope that it might free the people from the pains that afflict them. Surely, it shall "be weighed in an even balance, that it may know" its integrity. The Relief Society is in harmony with the plan of mercy. It is distinguished as an analyst of human needs. It understands that man ought not to "live by bread only but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." So it teaches, mercifully, precious treasures of knowledge, and pearls of great price. The Lord is its source of understanding, and its "shield and exceeding great reward." An outstanding virtue of the Relief Society is the opportunity it affords for the spiritual and intellectual development of its members. For they study and are taught, not only doctrinal themes, and to give of their substance to the poor, but current issues. Its course of study is not an amassment of facts materials, but is aptly adapted to woman's needs, and to entice the society heavenward. It stimulates a dailiness of desire for educative and spiritual attainment, and enlivens tastes for the exquisite. It gives all who will work, opportunity to become more capable mothers, and aids to society, and teaches and trains woman to assist man to "replenish the earth, and subdue it," and to have dominion in the field where God has placed her. SONG FOR MORNING By Katherine Fernelius I love the breath of the morning wind, Blowing so cool against my cheek, Whispering hope for the dawning day, Bidding me rise, go forth and seek! I love the tasks that the day brings forth, The trivial tasks that make the whole; Each, well-done, is a further step To the ultimate goal. I love the clasp of a friendly hand, Strong and true, as a band of steel Welding our fragile lives in one, Lasting through every woe and weal. I love a song on the lips of youth, The joyous song that comes from the heart, A genuine smile, a genuine tear, In Life's great mart. She Came to Scoff By Clara Perman MONOGRAMMED traveling bags lay open on the davenport; an array of silks floated from the backs of chairs; the floor was adorned with dainty slippers of every color and style. A knock at the door brought a girl from behind a large wardrobe trunk. Some might have thought her beautiful; but to the close observer Barbara's loveliness was spoiled by a certain hardness in the eyes, a cold defiance. Possibly it was because they seemed too brown for the silky soft gold of her hair. "Come in," she called, prepared to meet Don's surprise. In the profusion he appeared more sleek and immaculate than ever. "Got a job!" she announced. "Job? Where? What?" "Teaching school. Rural, I guess. Called Yates—up north somewhere." "Yates! Say, I've heard of that place. Why it's right out in the sticks and every family there is Mormon—you'll be ostracized—if not kicked out!" "I don't care whether they're Mormon, Methodist. Or Mohammedan. My application stated that I had no religious preference—so— they can kick me out for lack of religion; but I'd like to see them stop paying my salary!" "Why worry about a salary — your mother and dad both have scads of money—let's get married —we could keep it a secret till I'm out of school if you want to." He walked over to a little cabinet and started to mix a cocktail. "When I marry," Barbara returned, "I want to be so happy that I'll shout it from the housetops. I'll have to be very, very sure for I want a real home. It's something I never had—batted back and forth between mother and dad—dumped into fine schools—all the money I wanted—- but it doesn't satisfy. I'm hungry for something and I don't know what it is. I've heard work is a good tonic for that. One year of work and I'll give you your answer." AND so it was that in September Barbara was located in the little rural community of Yates. It was true, every family there belonged to the Latter-day Saints' Church. Their social life was closely allied to their church. Barbara's only religious experience had been one visit to Sunday School. Deeply impressed with the story of Christ Blessing the Little Children she had taken her picture home and asked to be taken to see this man. The laughter that followed had made her throw the picture away in disgust. It was a fake. There was no such man. Her later life had brought no further proof of his existence. Remembering Don's warning of ostracism she kept strictly aloof and fought the wretched loneliness with hard work. ON the third Sunday morning Mrs. Wright, with whom she stayed, joyously announced. "I'm having a family reunion here today in honor of my nephew Anthony, just home from missionary service. Barbara did not rejoice over the news. Not until a call for dinner came did she go down. Her eyes grew harder as she steeled herself for meeting this undoubtedly long, thin. Pious missionary and the cold shoulders of the others. Don's great wisdom, however, lost a little prestige when warm smiles greeted her and friendly hands were extended. The men were just coming in from outdoors. Above the heads of the others towered a crop of black unruly hair, two twinkling blue eyes, and the broadest smile of any. He was far from being thin. "What on earth, Anthony?" called his mother as she began to dust him off. "Well, they bet I'd forgotten how to tie a calf and I had to show them!" Barbara decided her previous picture was a little far fetched and found herself not minding it in the least when he was placed next to her at the table. The afternoon raced into church time and Anthony, taking it for granted that everyone went to church, said to her, "May I ride you over?" Barbara didn't want to sail under false colors, "Oh, I don't attend. I don't belong to your church. In fact, I'm plain heathen." "Well, if the church only admits members, it won't do a very big business, will it?" This hinted of sentimentality which she despised. "As a likely business prospect—I'm just not— that's final." "We've never yet forced anyone to take up our belief, Miss Barbara. You're perfectly safe in going, if you care to." In the end she went, smiling to herself when Anthony got up to make a talk; but it was not the talk of a boy—a serious well-poised man told of his travels. There was something about his eyes that reminded her of someone; she couldn't think who it was. Now what were they doing? It looked like a bottle of olive oil—they were blessing it—a laugh went up her sleeve. When Anthony took her to a dance in the same building the next Saturday night, she was amazed; when the dance opened with prayer, she openly showed her amusement until he explained, "We believe in taking our religion with us wherever we go." Barbara studied this a while then said, "I don't know but what you're right. The dances I usually attend are opened with a corkscrew." As the evening wore on she made other comparisons which were very favorable. When Anthony was leaving he said lightly, "Church tomorrow night?" "On one condition—no discussion of religion." It was agreed. The procedure was adopted for continuing Sunday nights. Barbara even played selections for special music occasionally. Anthony was true to his word. AT a service about the middle of December the bishop announced. "The funeral of the Jones baby will be held tomorrow afternoon. As yet I have found no one to play the organ. The trip will have to be made on horseback as the mountain road is blocked with snow. Will anyone volunteer to do this service?" There was no response. At last Barbara said, "I shall be glad to go." Anthony managed to squeeze her hand surreptitiously. "It's nice to feel that I'm a little part of it all," she thought to herself the next day as half frozen she had to be helped into the little house already filled with women cleaning. Cooking, caring for the children. Love—their eyes glowed with it— they made no exceptions but rubbed her hands and feet, poured warm milk down her—a motherly tenderness that she had never known. With no previous conception of what death meant, Barbara passed into the living room; saw the tiny homemade casket. It might have been a doll lying there asleep. Little waxen fingers rested daintily upon its breast. Slowly she placed her music—"Safe in the Arms of Jesus" —the words took on meaning — somehow she hoped it might be true. As the old organ responded to her fingers something began tightening at her throat, choking sounds came forth over which she had no control. Barbara had never been known to cry. She hated it; when the last note died away she fled from the room and threw herself upon a bed. Soon Anthony came to her. He took her hand, "We have to face these things, Barbara, it's God's will." "Oh, but a baby! I think it's terrible! How can these parents believe in a God?" "It's their belief that makes them able to endure it." "I know it," she cried impulsively. "I envy all these people—the joy, the comfort they get out of their belief!" "Yet you're determined to flounder around in nothingness," he said softly. How well he had expressed it. Nothingness. Could this be the cause of that yearning she had always felt? She made no answer. He went on, "Perhaps if you wouldn't oppose it so—would take time to really give it some study—this something in your life that has made you so bitter —-haven't you been fighting it with the wrong weapons? What has your hardness gained you?" Anthony could be so right with so few words. She decided to try the other method. The next day Anthony brought some literature—but Barbara took it to her room—and hid it. Perhaps she had just been an emotional fool after all. WHEN came Christmas and she was vacationing in the city. Don came. "Bobbie," he cried, "you're more beautiful than ever—you're different—something about the eyes" Just then the old gang rushed in upon her. Soon the drinks began to circulate. Barbara laughed hers away saying, "Oh, when I was young like you kids I thought it rather smart; but now I see nothing clever about it. Any moron could do it!" There was a chorus of, "Is she insulting us?" "Gosh, an old maid school marm after four months," and "Prunes, prisms, and persimmons!" Barbara didn't mind till she saw Don's look and caught his aside, "Why put a damper on everything ——where are your manners?" Possibly she had been rude. There were certain courtesies demanded of a hostess. She accepted a drink— the first in a long time—she could feel it to the end of her toes. Another one and she was saying, "Come on, let's go places and do things. I've been buried for four months." For two weeks they went places and did things. In a half daze Barbara packed her bags to return to the country. "I'll go with you to the junction where you meet the stage," said Don. On the train she confided to him. "I don't see how I can ever go back." "That's what I thought; so I bought a license. Suppose we can find a preacher in these dumps?" Barbara wasn't quite normal yet. The idea didn't seem bad as they stepped off into the lonely little station. There stood Anthony. He came toward her. One look, and Barbara instantly sobered. "Took it upon myself to come and meet you," he said, "the stage is slow and makes so many stops," Barbara introduced him. Don glared, recognized the introduction with, "What's the idea of butting into our affairs? What do you have to do with this anyway?" Anthony remained calm. His eyes held that serious kind look that reminded her of someone. She had never been able to figure out who it was. "Nothing at all," he answered quietly, "it rests entirely with Miss Barbara." "Forget it, Don, put the bags in this car here." "But you said—" "I didn't say anything. See you when school's out. Goodbye!" MILES of desolate land were covered; snow swirled about in the sand and dry sagebrush. Anthony said not a word. He was disgusted, of course. She didn't blame him. How she loathed it—even Don and all he stood for—she was glad to get back to the clean pure air of the country. Of one thing she was certain—she was going to climb out of this nothingness. Now she would have to do it alone—for she had lost Anthony. Before they reached her home he said, "Barbara, at first I was interested in you because I wanted to win you for the church; now I know that I want to win you for myself. But if it's this Don, I won't infringe.", At first Barbara couldn't answer. He had no idea how impossible she was. Then she told him truthfully, "Oh, Don and I have talked of it; but there's nothing definite. I—I care a great deal for you—but I must be very, very sure." "I won't urge you. I want you to be very sure. We'll let it drop till then." BARBARA knew it wasn't Don now. All through the next five months she debated with herself. Anthony stood for a worthwhile life; she could picture herself growing into a splendid womanhood like that she saw all about her—a real home. She wanted Anthony's love more than anything else in the world —but this dark curtain that was between them—her unbelief—she tried hard to overcome it—studied all the literature zealously—there were so many wonderful things about it— but the old stony barrier of the years refused to move. Marriage would not be fair to him. On her last Sunday in Yates they were alone in the living room. She must tell him it could never be. Just as she began there was a loud galloping of hoofs outside. A man swung off and rushed to the door. "Anthony, Mary is terribly sick, can you come over and administer to her?" Anthony reached for his hat. "Want to come along, Barbara?" Like a Doubting Thomas she accompanied him; found herself in a home where strained silent faces avoided each other; eyes flinched as moans and shrieks of pain came from the sick room. They were carrying in a bottle of olive oil. Barbara remembered the first service in the church when she had laughed. Now she began to marvel as the moans ceased and heavy regular breathing showed that the sick woman had fallen asleep. Anthony came out. There was that look in his eyes that had always haunted her. Suddenly she remembered. It was in the eyes of the man on her Sunday School picture. All doubt lifted. She seemed to float out to the car —she put her hand in his, "Anthony, I'm very, very sure." The Forum on Current Problems By Julia A. F. Lund ON October 15, 16 and 17, 1935, a very remarkable series of meetings were held in the spacious and gorgeous ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York City. Entrance was by ticket only, and came through membership in the women's organizations of the world. The Relief Society representatives were invited through the National Council of Women, and had box seats with the Council officers. More than sixty thousand women applied for tickets. This event of great national importance was the Fifth Annual Forum on Current Problems, sponsored by the New York Herald Tribune. The subject of the Forum was "America Faces a Changing World." The Chairman, Mrs. William Brown Meloney, Editor of This Week, assembled men and women from all over the world to discuss subjects upon which they were authorities. There were six sessions, each with a special heading, a part of the general theme. These were in turn divided into subjects which had a direct bearing upon the major topic. Both sides of many questions were presented, and diversified opinions upon world problems were expressed, but one statement was made against which there was not a dissenting voice, and that was "The Women of the World must present a united front against war." Mrs. Ogden Reid, vice-president of the New York Herald Tribune, welcomed the delegates. To her the vast audience assembled "represented a large portion of the thinking women—a still unrecognized supreme court—the Women of the World." Women will play an important part in the adjustments that must be made, and they are going to insist upon having a say as to what is right. The sessions of the Forum were in the following order: first, "Trade and Peace;" second, "Some Assets of the Depression;" third, "Some Safeguards for the Future;" fourth, "The Rise of Culture in the United States;" fifth, "Propaganda: a Force for Good or Evil;" sixth, "What Americans Should Know of the New Philosophies of Governments." Each session was of such absorbing interest, and so much material of immense educational value was presented, that to make a selection of what can be reviewed in a brief article, is as difficult as for the small boy in a toy shop to choose what he may have. There was a most distinguished and extraordinary group of men and women assembled for this Forum. They came from the world of art, music, literature and science; from the most celebrated centers of learning—the great universities; from the fields of business and finance, from the seats of great governments, from the spheres of radio and the press, the theatre and the opera; all with a vital and individual message! The selection of a few of the illustrious personalities will demonstrate this. During the first session, Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt spoke upon "The American Woman's Place in the World Today." She made a powerful appeal for women the world over, pointing out that we must think of our problems as a part of the great whole. American women have the best opportunity for thinking and acting, therefore they are in a position to assume leadership in the world of women. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State, in discussing "Trade and Peace" said that the business of maintaining peace is a very real and positive necessity, but the United States has the opportunity to exert a great moral influence. The development of international trade is one means of preserving peace. Peaceful arts are the dynamic arts. Norman H. Davis, "The Colonel House of President Roosevelt," sounded the warning that we cannot keep peace by simply wishing for it, we must work for it. Sir Samuel Hoare, then British Foreign Secretary; Sir Josiah Stamp, Director of the Bank of England; Lady Rhondda; Hon. Paul Reynaud, Deputy for Paris; Dr. Paul Van Zeeland, Prime Minister of Belgium, were some of the distinguished Europeans who participated in the discussions. All the speakers of this session recognized the imperative demand of people for the abolition of War. Political problems are the immediate symptoms of economic disorders, a malady from which the whole world is suffering. We must stand for a new world, a new order of human relationship. The musical numbers were among the most delightful features of The Forum. These 'included John Charles Thomas, whose father was a circuit minister in the South. The father preached and the son sang. His first music book was a collection of hymns, perhaps that is why he can lift one to such heights. Sydney Rayner, tenor of the Opera Comique, Paris, rendered a group of beautiful songs. The Negro Spirituals take on new significance when RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sung by the glorious tenor voice of Roland Hayes. Edward Johnson, one of the greatest tenors of the Metropolitan Opera, and now its Director, discussed the place of music in American culture. He traced the development of opera from the days when the French singers first came to New Orleans. This was followed by the Italian Opera in New York. He told the story of the buildings before the Metropolitan, and reviewed the artists and directors. This year gives greater promise to opera lovers than ever before. Rouben Memoulin, the producer of "Porgy and Bess," spoke on "The World's Latest Fine Art" — motion pictures. He said that all entertainment is not art, but all art is entertainment. The genealogical tree of the moving pictures is still but a shrub, but it has a glorious future. The development of the screen is away from the stage into a field of its own. Helen Hayes spoke to the subject "The American Theatre Comes of Age." The theatre has now become respectable, and acting is getting away from "'a job," and becoming a_ profession. The director has come to stay, and there has been a wonderful development in scenery. There are still some things lacking for its complete success, play-writing has not yet become a profession, the theatre is still metropolitan rather than national, but the future is promising. Jonas Lie, President of the National Academy, speaking on "Trends in American Art," said that art is international, but takes its type from within, or where it is conceived. By the work of our artists will our civilization be measured. It will outlive all other material things. The Depression has made people conscious of the need-for art. Truth is vital in art, as in all else. THE FORUM ON CURRENT PROBLEMS ONE of the most interesting sessions was on "Propaganda: a Force for Good or Evil." Some of the ablest speakers in the Forum discussed the various headings. It is the most dangerous weapon for evil that exists, with all the means offered today, notably the radio. All, no matter what the message, may present it to the world. This power is just as available to the evil as to the good. It may also, if directed in the channels it should go, be the greatest force for good and the most powerful agent for social control. Abraham Lincoln said, "He who molds public opinion goes deeper than he who enforces law or writes statutes." IRITA VAN DOREN, Literary editor of the New York Herald Tribune, and Dorothy Thompson (Mrs. Sinclair Lewis), International Journalist, were two of the outstanding women on the Forum program. Mrs. Van Doren is the first editor to bring foreign critics, as such, to America, and the only woman in America to edit a literary review. Miss Thompson is the best known woman journalist, and the most feared by corrupt politicians. She discussed "Government by Propaganda," and demonstrated its use by Hitler and Mussolini, whose Governments present the spectacle of masses of people held together by a fanatical belief in untried principles. MAYOR LA GUARDIA, of New York, spoke on the "Depression's Debunking of Finance." The mystery has been taken out of finance, and the practices of speculators revealed. There is not a lack of confidence in government, but lack of faith in finance. We need a large dose of good old-fashioned 155 honesty. The Government cannot legislate honesty, but it can jail the cheaters. SOME of the "Assets of the Depression" were "Better Housing," by Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, who explained the Government's program of housing; "Better Knowledge of Health Needs," by Surgeon General Warren F. Draper, United States Public Health Service. This has been a real blessing to the people. Dr: JOHN WARD STUDEBAKER, U. S. Commissioner of Education, in discussing "Modernizing Adult Education," said in the present time education is one of the best supports of morale. Education should make us see life as a whole, and the good life for all. JOHN ERSKINE gave a most delightful and informative address in the "key note" speech in the "Rise of Culture in the United States." The soil in America is rich enough, and there is an abundance of seed. We have ploughed, planted and reaped—we are the harvest. Culture is a result of the best that has been thought and done in the past, but we must go beyond that and create things in our own right, look inside —be ourselves! "THE Universities were represented by Dr. Glenn Frank, of Wisconsin; Dr. Harwood L. Childs, of Princeton; Dr. Bruce Hopper, of Harvard; Dr. Elliot, of Harvard; Dr. Frederick L. Schuman of University of Chicago; Dr. James T. Shotwell, of Columbia, and many others of equal fame. HE outstanding message of the Forum came in the words of 156 Dr. Arthur H. Compton, Professor of Physics, University of Chicago. In introducing him, the chairman said he was the youngest man to ever win the Nobel Prize, but his faith "that God rules the Universe' has brought comfort and peace to thousands of his fellowmen, and is a greater credit to him than to win the Nobel prize. His subject was "The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Safeguard of Religion." How to live in the civilization he has built is the greatest problem of man. Religion is the effort to meet the most satisfying solution of life, and is its only real standard of values. In the words of the Apostle Paul "The spiritual man is alive to all true values of life." I Love Old People By Caroline Eyring Miner NEVER had a grandmother or a grandfather of my own after I was old enough to know their worth. I wonder if many of us do have, for like most good things of this earth, their true worth is recognized only in their loss. In consequence of my loss I learned early the worth of old people in my adoption of grandparents for myself. Because old people so often become physically handicapped, with halting step and palsied hand, they sadly depreciate themselves and are often unappreciated by others as well. All too often they feel they are useless and dependent. Grandmother may break a dish or spill her food, and grandfather may need a cane or a crutch to get about, but spiritually and intellectually they are in their golden age. Of course there are exceptions to this rule. There are instances in which the mind and soul seem to grow tired and old and dead along with the physical body. Then grandmother and grandfather may become disgruntled or even violent, and wander off or come to other harm. Ordinarily, however, the words of the poet Browning are true when he says, "Grow old along with me; the best is yet to be; the last of life for which the first made." was IN the town in which I lived as a little girl an old couple lived in a convenient little brick house near the church building. They were grandmother and grandfather for the whole town of children, all of whom first became acquainted with them through class visits sponsored by the Sunday School or Primary. That was how I first met my adopted grandparents, and how I first learned to love old people. Grandfather had strange and interesting tales to tell of the early days of the church when he lay imprisoned and suffered countless other persecutions for his religion. It was an inspiration to listen to the words of wisdom, so fresh and vigorous, coming from the lips of this feeble and stooped old man. Grandmother was a virtual invalid with no children or grandchildren, save the many children of the town who had adopted her. She was a convert from some middle western town and was as cheerful, and tidy and neat as her freshly painted kitchen. She told. Me the story of her conversion and of her early life: taught me how to knit and gave me countless recipes, and best of all, I LOVE OLD PEOPLE allowed me to visit with her and help to make her bed-ridden hours a little less lonely. SINCE my first happy introduction to old people and the richness of their long lives, I have met and loved many of them. They are the great oaks in the forest of people, gnarled and covered with moss but full of experience and dignity. They have been tried in the furnace of life and so are tender and sympathetic to those of us who are just in the burning. When I am around them I want to keep still and just listen for they are so full of wisdom and experience that it just bubbles 157 over like a clear spring, too full to be longer restrained. So few people will listen to them, it seems, calling them 'Old Fogies.' I think often of the words of Ruskin when I think of old people. He said in effect, why waste your time on ten cent people when in books you can converse with kings and princes of wisdom? The old people of our homes and communities are the kings and princes of wisdom and experience. Why do we not value more our acquaintances with them? I count among my most valued acquaintances the grandfathers and grandmothers I know and have known. I truly love old people. A Case of Devotion By Superintendent Ralph B. Keeler ERE is a case of exceptional devotion to church work that I believe is worthy of a little recognition. Mrs. Maude Farnsworth, President of the Colonia Garcia Ward Relief Society, mother of thirteen children, rode twelve miles on horseback and forty-five on the fender of a Ford roadster, over unimproved mountain roads in northern Mexico to attend the Quarterly Stake Conference of the Juarez Stake which was held the later part of last November. The thirteenth child of this mother was held by another mother in the crowded car during the journey. The above incident is only typical of this good sister's interest in gathering information, and otherwise better equipping herself to direct Relief Society work in her little ward. She labors under many handicaps and surmounts many difficulties as this incident demonstrates, MAUDE FARNSWORTH Achievement 1842-1936 By Annie Wells Cannon BLESSED are the women of the Relief Society, as in retrospection they look down the corridors of time, and mark the progress of their great organization through the past ninety-four years. It was a courageous step, and a challenge to the world when on March 17, 1842, the Relief Society was organized, for at that time scarcely any privileges or opportunities of education were afforded women. It is a satisfaction to note that through this long period, nearly a century, the Relief Society has kept pace with the 'March of Time.' From a membership of eighteen women it has grown until today there are nearly seventy-five thousand and the Organization is both national and international in name and scope. It reaches into far lands until it spans the world with its band of organized womanhood. A telepathic circle of thought is created as almost simultaneously songs of praise, fervent prayers, and general programs are engaged in by this great sisterhood. So systematic is the work that the general president is in touch with the operations of each branch, no matter how far removed, and is able to send a call for assistance or give instructions and receive an answer within a very short time. PRIMARILY, as the name implies the aim of the Relief Society was to look after the needs of the poor and distressed, but from the inception of the movement it was evident that the Latter-day Saint women were entering upon an expansive program of development along spiritual and educational lines, scarcely dreamed of before for women. "To look after the wants of the poor; to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community; to save souls; to grow in knowledge and intelligence; to be merciful even as our Father in heaven is merciful; to be pure in heart; to be united and cooperate for good," were the words with which the "key was turned for woman" and the Relief Society launched on its philanthropic mission. These instructions by the Prophet Joseph Smith, together with a perfect lesson in parliamentary law and procedure, form the foundation on which the Relief Society is built, and proudly stands today, among the foremost organizations of the great women of the world. NATURALLY with such a beginning Leadership is a distinguishing feature of the organization; appointment to hold office and to teach, requires one to obtain knowledge and confidence. In the establishment of organized charity, it was early demonstrated that the better way was to help people to help themselves. The women realized the fact that "work was preferable to alms-giving, for the former drives out indolence, the latter industry." Direct and indiscriminate giving, save in cases of emergency, was discouraged. Also the policy has been to avoid institutional care and localize in small groups the disbursement of Charity. FACING the organization in the beginning there were innumerable problems to solve and many things to do. There was poverty, sickness, and also new converts arriving from other states and foreign lands, and these things were the first consideration. The membership rapidly increased and a corps of visiting sisters was organized to seek out cases of distress and report the needs. This was the beginning of the teacher's work which now engages the services of thousands of women. The people were striving to build a Temple and the Relief Society helped by furnishing board and room and clothing for men who were donating labor, and besides they raised a penny fund to furnish glass for the Temple windows. Because of the bitterness, and strife and threatened persecution these women prepared a memorial in behalf of their people and furnished the means to send a delegation to present it to Governor Carlin at Quincy, Illinois. In the forced exodus from Nauvoo the Relief Society women, though separated in different companies coming west, carried the spirit of the work through the journey, over prairie, plain and mountain, and ministered in the camps of Israel at Sugar Creek, Garden Grove, Mt. Pisgah, and Winter Quarters. In the rude temporary homes at Winter Quarters, meetings were held to comfort, encourage and keep up the morale of the women. From such women as these has come a heritage of courage and service to inspire the daughters of Zion to continue the good work. AS homes were built and wards. Established in the Salt Lake valley, it seemed time to reorganize the Relief Society. A few wards were organized from 1851 to 1857, but from 1866 on the work of organization was rapid and constant. To further cement the work, in 1887 ward units were formed into stakes until today there are over 1700 wards, 115 stakes and 30 missions, all functioning under the supervision of a board of general officers and directors along their different lines of endeavor as a great auxiliary to the Church. THE benevolent work of the Relief Society embraces different phases and a review of the various purposes for the outlay of means is quite enlightening. The first consideration always is the care of the poor and figures, though counted by tens of thousands, would fail to estimate the relief thus given. In the covered wagon days help was given to emigrate new converts, and care for them after arrival until they could establish themselves; funds were subscribed for the militia men called to protect the settlers against Indian attacks; by their industry and business sagacity, through sewing, knitting, weaving, holding bazaars, giving parties, entertainments, saving and selling Sunday eggs, means were raised to help build schools and meeting houses, buy land and erect Relief Society halls and buy wheat and build granaries. Home Industry, of necessity in this isolated region was religiously fostered and besides the sewing of clothing, quilting, carpet-making, the women made candles, soap, dried fruits and even braided straw for their bonnets. They also engaged for many years in Sericulture. Mulberry trees were grown and three silk factories were established. Many yards of silk cloth and beautiful ribbons were manufactured. The experiment, however, was too costly to compete with the imported article and after a few years was discontinued. The fine specimens of silk displayed at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893 were pronounced by experts to equal silk raised in France or Japan. The general officers of the Relief Society own a much prized banner made of Utah silk, which was made for, and carried in the Jubilee parade in 1897. At the State Capitol are some exquisite Utah silk portieres which were hung in the Woman's Building at the Columbian Exposition. A Women's Fair was opened in 1876 where the Relief Society exhibited their handiwork and many beautiful articles were sold. At the close of the summer season these displayed articles and the success of the Fair led to the establishment of a Woman's Store. This store besides being an exchange where handiwork could be brought and sold on commission, also included dress making, millinery and employment departments. Temple clothes were made here and rented or sold. When the store was discontinued the Temple clothing became the immediate concern of the General Board and evolved into the beautiful and successful Burial Clothes Department now conducted under their supervision. THE Relief Society women have always taken an active part in matters of government and worked with all women for the privilege of universal Suffrage. In Utah the franchise was granted by legislative enactment in 1870, and many of the western states had suffrage long before the 19th or Susan B. Anthony Amendment was passed. The women in these states gave much assistance to the women of the nation to bring about that victory. OBTAINING the suffrage brought about the establishment of a paper by the Relief Society women called The Woman's Exponent. This was one of the first woman's papers west of St. Louis. At one time it carried the caption, "The Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations." The Relief Society motto later was changed to "Charity Never Faileth." The Exponent reported the activities of the Relief Society, contained articles of historical and biographical nature, items of current interest, stories, poems and editorial instructions. It was a medium for the encouragement of women writers. In 1914 it ceased publication and was succeeded by the Relief Society Magazine, which follows the same policy and is of invaluable help and benefit to all its readers. Besides these publications the Relief Society has published a number of books, pamphlets and circulars. The most pretentious of these is The Women of Mormondom, written by Edward W. Tullidge. THE mission to gather and store wheat against a day of famine was given the women of the Church by President Brigham Young. This work was faithfully carried on for 42 years when the wheat was called for by the government of the United States during the World War. At that time there were 200,000 bushels of wheat, stored mostly in elevators belonging to the Church. The small granaries had long since been in disuse. During the years some wheat had been loaned for seed, when through drought crops had failed to mature. Once a carload of flour from Relief Society wheat was sent to the famine sufferers in China, and a carload was shipped to San Francisco at the time of the earthquake and fire in 1906. Since the purchase of the wheat by the government, the interest on the money has been and is being used for health purposes. ALWAYS alert to the needs of the hour it early became apparent in the making of new settlements there was a need of midwives and nurses. A number of women were assisted by the Relief Society to attend medical colleges and prepare themselves, not only to practice but to teach classes in obstetrics and nursing. This led to the founding of the Deseret Hospital, which for a number of years was conducted under the direction of the organization. Domestic Nursing and Midwifery were taught and hundreds of cases cared for. Institutes were also held in distant settlements that lives of mothers and babies might be saved and trained care given. Later large classes were trained under the patronage of the Relief Society. These nurses under the direction of a superintendent gave fine service in the homes at moderate prices, or if necessary, without pay. Now to the large modern Church hospitals the Relief Society contributes linen, fruit and other supplies. One Maternity Hospital is at present conducted by the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society. EACH period of time has its own demands on a community, but as its social, industrial and economic life changes, different requirements are made. Where the main incentive is to benefit others, methods and conduct must change if the course is onward and the vision clear. COOPERATION with other organizations in regard to public questions of service — Suffrage, Temperance, Red Cross, Peace, and others, social and humanitarian—led to an affiliation with the National and International Councils of Women. The Relief Society is a charter member in these Councils and regularly sends representative women, as delegates to the conventions and congresses which are held at stated intervals in different capitals of the world. These delegates hold responsible positions in office and on committees and their assistance. And judgment is much respected. THE Relief Society is legally Incorporated because of its extensive holdings; this does not, however change its status as a Church auxiliary. The untiring labor and daring enterprise of the pioneer women, prepared the way for the later ventures into the more cultural and educational programs. Means were raised by the establishment of different funds, to provide and furnish suitable Headquarters and Offices and for traveling expenses of officers and board members in their official visits to conferences and conventions. THE Adult Educational Program furnished the members is prepared by professionals and closely approaches a university course in excellence. Theology, Literature, Sociology, Home Ethics and Domestic Art, and Teacher Topic Training, are subjects printed in the Relief Society Magazine and given by selected teachers in the several wards. The fine art of Music is at all times encouraged. In the several wards are choruses or choirs of women, while the General Board maintains a choir of three hundred women known as the "Singing Mothers," who furnish music for the Relief Society conferences, are at times asked to sing at sessions of the general conference of the Church and occasionally broadcast over the air. THE women of the present generation maintain the high standards set for their organization by the Prophet Joseph Smith at the first meeting, nor have they forgotten the accomplishments of those who pioneered and carried on the work before them. Living Memorials have been established to the honor and in the name of the past presidents. While at Nauvoo a beautiful Monument in imperishable stone has been erected and dedicated on the spot where the Relief Society was organized and in memory of that occasion. A COMPLETE narrative of this magnificent organization—The Relief Society, were it possible, would fill a volume. Even in relating some of the outstanding accomplishments much is left unsaid. After all, the finest achievement is the spiritual and educational advancement of the members themselves, for through every period of time, through every endeavor, has reigned the glory of Spirituality— that golden thread of Testimony holding sacredly together this band of sisterhood, whose lives are enriched beyond price by this sublime humanitarian service. And Angels Shall Attend By Dorothy Clapp Robinson YEP. Twenty years I've driven the loop Star Route and never failed to get the mail through but once. That was on account of Margaret O'Connel. She's that southern convert who come west and bought Jake Quillian's dry farm. Paid him about what the improvements was worth and got stung at that. Outside the fencing there's nothing there but a straw stable and coop, and a shell of a house that stood, weather target, on a high knoll. There was three-four moist hollers where she could raise garden but the wheat land—well, you know what it is. One year you have a crop but most years you don't. The O'Connels was quality, as they say in the south. One look told you that. And they was the tightest-mouthed outfit ever struck these parts. They wasn't stuck-up, mind you. In no time they had made a place for themselves in the Cole Creek ward. Folks liked them, liked them more as time went by but nobody called her just Margaret. We belong to the Center ward. I've been taking mail to the folks in that valley every other day for twenty years. Off days I make the north loop. Mighty little happens I don't hear. I go within a quarter mile of their place so see the O'Connel's winter and summer. Jay, the oldest of the four youngsters, was sixteen-seventeen when they moved there. Odd thing, too, about their mailbox. They put one up right off. I brought them a paper every week, two magazines a month and twice a year a letter. It was always in the same handwriting and from the same place in Virginia. If they wrote letters Jay must have mailed them when he went to Caribou. Never forget my first sight of her. She was waiting at her mailbox to ask if I'd bring her some groceries. I usually was loaded, coming out so there's nothing about that to remember. It was HER, and my hat come off in a hurry. She was a little whiffet—with hair as white as snow even then. But when you looked at her you saw nothing but her eyes. Afterward as the team plodded along, me taking mail out of boxes and putting more back, I tried to figure them out. I was mighty near home before something popped into my head. Somewhere I had heard 'Woman Athirst.' Yes, sir. That described them exactly. They had that all-seeing, feverish look of one athirsting for something. But what she was waiting for neither me nor Cole Creek knew for many, a year. As I said, we belong to Center ward but Alice's sister, Jennie Woolf, was second counselor in the Cole Creek Relief Society so I heard from all sides when Emma West resigned and Margaret O'Connel was put in first counselor. Right then Cole Creek come to life. Yes, I am coming to the story of the mail. "I can't explain," Jennie told us more than once, "the influence Margaret O'Connel has over the women. She takes literally all the Prophet said at that first meeting. About strengthening virtues and raising life to its highest standards. Geography, she said, and numbers have nothing to do with progress. She leads but the women are good followers. In no time our organization was going ahead by leaps and bounds. It's a miracle how many opportunities we can find right here in Cole Creek for improving ourselves." That's the way she worked, and of all the women only Em West resented her. Em was jealous. As for the dry farm, they worked long and hard. Right off they had bought a few head of sheep—and they handled them right. They had some good crops, too, so folks wondered why they didn't get ahead more. There was no new clothes, no fixing that took money. And in all them years she never sent cash for groceries. It was butter or eggs every time. Jay wasn't more than twenty or twenty-one when he started going with Thala Hatcher. Right off folks reckoned they'd get married but as the years went by and they didn't it become just one more thing the O'Connels done different. Then this particular winter Thala begin stepping out with Carl Hansen. Jay only worked a little harder and talked a little less. The winter they'd been there twelve years was a record breaker. I kept twelve horses on the route, working them in relays. Then sometimes it took twenty-four hours to get the mail through. Naturally I wasn't doing much thinking about anybody but I did notice the O'Connels begin haunting the mailbox. Every trip the mother or the girl would be there huddling in the cold, eyes thirstier than ever, waiting, waiting for something that didn't come. Afterward Jennie told Alice about their January sewing meeting when Emma West came near starting something. They had been discussing things they'd read as usual when Em pipes up with something she'd read. "It's the funniest thing," she says, casual like, "about a man with the same name as yours, Mrs. O'Connel. He's been let out of Virginia state prison after being there thirteen years for murder. You wouldn't know him would you, Margaret O'Connel?" "Why should she?" Len Davis demanded. "Plenty of people have the same name." Now the women, Jennie said, was so busy glaring at Em they didn't notice Margaret O'Connel. But Jennie was standing close by her and she says her face went chalky and her hand shook so she couldn't thread her needle. That and the O'Connels getting a letter out of turn was all that happened that winter except weather. That and one other thing. One Thursday in March Mrs. O'Connel showed up at her mailbox and wanted to ride into Caribou with me. "What's up?" I says to myself. "There's a look in her eye that's different even for her." Aloud I answered, "You're perfectly welcome to go with me but hadn't you better wait until Saturday? There's some weather on the way." "I must be in Caribou tomorrow morning," she says, "I must be." And she climbed into the sleigh before I could help her. I give her a brick to keep her warm and tucked the quilts around her as best I could. She thanked me and asked about Alice but said little else. There was something about her voice and every once in a while she would draw a long sobbing breath like someone who's feeling so much they can't keep it bottled up. It was getting suspiciously warm. For a couple of days it had thawed and misted. Then that night the thermometer had dropped to twenty below, and everything was froze into glass. Now, unless I missed my guess, it was fixing to snow which wouldn't help matters any. At Aaron Ball's I stopped to change horses and while Aaron and me was hooking on the fresh team Ellen come out with some hot bricks. "For goodness sake, Bill," she says, "as soon as you get where you can, call the Doctor. John West was over awhile ago but couldn't get him. I told him I'd call for him but the line is dead." "Going to be some time before I get to a phone," I says. "Dear me—he's expecting me to get the Doctor. I'd go myself but —" "You'll get back in the house," Aaron told her. "You're hardly out of bed yourself." Sure enough. We'd hardly left Aaron's when the blizzard struck us head on. I had a cover over the bobs but what with the wind and all it made mighty poor protection. The horses crept along foot by foot. Margaret O'Connel had been sitting like a statue ever since we left Ball's and when we come to the crossroads where we turn north she spoke. "Let me out, please. I am going back to Emma West. The Doctor may not get there." "I thought you had to be in Caribou tomorrow morning." For a long minute she didn't answer. I could FEEL something going on. "Let me out," and her voice was soft as ever. "You'll never make it. It's a good five miles and getting dark." "Please stop." Now what could you do with a woman like that? I thought of my mail—of my record. Then I made a decision myself. And it was a relief for I'd heard what hard times Em has and with nobody there— "Alright," I says, "but I am going too. Catch me turning a woman loose in this." So I turned the team into the teeth of the storm and headed south for John's. It wasn't easy going I can tell you. Several times the horses slipped and fell and why they didn't break their legs I still don't know. We'd have been lost a dozen times if it hadn't been for the fences. Seemed like the wind and snow was racing to see which could do the most damage. Time after time I had to get out and tramp back and forth, back and forth through the fast gathering drifts until the snow was low enough for the horses to wallow through. "We'll never make it," I says. "Of course we shall." Dogged if I knew how but I urged my tired team on. The last mile was the worst. We had to go around a shoulder of a big hill on a dugway. With ice for footing and the storm tearing hellbent-for-breakfast around that point it would be crazy to attempt in the daytime. By now I couldn't see the horses. At the foot of the hill I balked. "It's plumb suicide to try it. Sheltered here in the sleigh we do have a chance of hanging out until morning." "I would start the team if I were you." And her voice had that softas-thistledown, unbending-as-steel tone it takes on occasional. "What for?" I shouts for I was dog-tired to say nothing of being cold and hungry. "Just to get buried at the bottom of the hill? We'll never get over that dugway without help." "We have help," I hear above the roar of the storm. "When we live up to our privileges we always have help." Privileges. And the way she said it. And to me—a seventy. Well, I didn't need more than one reminder. Right then I knew we'd make it. Then Margaret O'Connel begin talking about opportunities and development and how we 'often mistake the guise,' them was her words, of the opportunity. Sometimes I heard her. Sometimes I didn't but I knew what she was saying. We crawled ahead inch by inch. Seems like I lost all sense of time. I lost all sense of everything but the power that urged and suggested and refused to give up. If angels ever attended humans they did us that night. Just as we got to the most dangerous place where we had to make the turn old Baldy starts snorting and backing. For one instant I thought he was going to back us right off into eternity. I got to his head as soon as I could. Then I begin pawing around for whatever had scared him. There with the snow drifted over him was a man. I picked up the poor thing and in the sleigh Margaret O'Connel, feeling about, covered him with the quilts. At John's I drove right up to the kitchen door. Before I could stop John was there. "Thank goodness you've come." Then, "Oh, it's you, Bill." "Yes, but I brought Margaret O'Connel. Go into Em," I says to her. "We'll look after him." We left the team standing while we carried him in. We laid him on the cot they keep by the kitchen fire. Then John went to look after the team while I started working on the poor frozen creature when Mrs. O'Connel come back into the kitchen. She give the stranger one swift look and there come over her such a change I knew this was what she had been waiting for all these years. "David." Then again, "David." And I think the listening angels must have wept at the sound. She dropped to her knees and her fine lady's hands that was knotted and calloused by years of outdoor work, went over his face feature by feature as a blind man's might. There came a cry from the bedroom and the kneeling woman rose ready to help. So while the storm raged without the three of us worked, worked and prayed. We done all we could for both and just as dawn come sneaking over the now quiet snow little Margaret O'Connel West rewarded us with a good lusty cry. With the old man it was different. The shock had been too great. John and me saw it coming and finally the woman did too. Just before morning he opened his eyes and recognized her. We left them alone and when we come back he was gone. There was no outcry, no weeping, only a straightening of shoulders, a hard breath or two, and the work went on. I left as soon as I could for the mail was still on my mind, but later Margaret, herself, told me the story. Her husband, David O'Connel, had been convicted on circumstantial evidence. A neighbor they hadn't cared much for, had practically ruined himself financially trying to get the sentence changed. Above a bare existence they had sent every cent they made to repay the debt. Just before Christmas the neighbor had been stricken and on his deathbed had confessed to the crime. The old man had reached Caribou a day soon and knowing nothing of the weather had decided to surprise them. He had caught a ride most of the way but had mistaken the hill by John's for the knoll he had been told to look for. "And just think, Bill," she says to me. "Had I not gone to Emma I should have missed that last priceless minute with him." In April when Jay and Thala went down to get married she went along and come home more saintlike than ever. Well, there is the story. Only time I fell down on my job in twenty years. Sure, I'm proud of it but when it comes to records it takes a woman with the Spirit of Relief Society back of her to excel in all things. HAVE FAITH The darkest night of grief or pain, Though filled with countless fears, Will lighten soon with faith and prayer; He'll wipe away our tears. The darkest night the world has known Has never dimmed one star; The darkest night a soul can know May leave a lasting scar; But it never dims Eternal Love That bids us look to Him above. —Elsie E. Barrett. A Typical Case By Edna May Irvine CHARACTERS Mrs. GRANGE, Relief Society President. Her children: BETH, age fourteen. GEORGE, age sixteen. EDITH, age nineteen. Mrs. STAY. Mrs. BAKER. SALLY BAKER. PHIL MONTGOMERY. The action takes place in the living room of the Grange home. There is an outside entrance at the right, entrance to kitchen, left and to other parts of the house at center back. A telephone is just outside the center back entrance. SCENE I (The door bell rings. Mrs. Grange enters from left, dressed for washday, and answers door.) Mrs. GRANGE: Good-morning, Sister Stay. Come in. Won't you sit down? Mrs. STAY: I'm sorry to have to come to you, Sister Grange, but I just had to do something. My husband had some trouble at work and quit his job two weeks ago. When he came home and told me, I was so upset that I chided him for being so quick tempered in times like these. He got mad and we had a quarrel. He tossed me a five dollar bill, gathered a few things together and left, saying he might never come back. Of course I thought he would return when he got over his anger, but I have neither seen nor heard from him. The money is all gone and we just haven't a thing to eat, so I had to do something. Mrs. GRANGE: I'm sorry. Have you any idea where your husband may have gone? Mrs. STAY: Not the least. He has no relatives here and he hasn't kept in touch with any of his people, so I hardly think he would have gone to them. Mrs. GRANGE: Are your people able to help you at all? Mrs. STAY: They're all having a hard time to get along. In fact, most of them are on relief. Mrs. GRANGE: Well, I'll give you emergency relief and we'll investigate and find just what is best to do. No doubt your husband is hunting for work somewhere and you will hear from him soon. Mrs. STAY: That's what I think, but I just couldn't see the children go hungry. Mrs. GRANGE: Of course not. I'll call Smith's Grocery and arrange for you to get what you need for a few days. I know you are a good manager and I can trust you to get wholesome food for yourself and the children. Mrs. STAY: We've always had to economize, so I've learned pretty well how to get the best values for my money. (She rises.) I'm sure I appreciate this, Sister Grange, and hope I won't be a burden very long. Mrs. GRANGE: Wait a minute. (She goes off left and returns with a paper sack.) Here are a few homemade cookies for the children. (Goodbyes are exchanged, Mrs. Stay exits right, and Mrs. Grange, left. In a moment the telephone bell rings. Mrs. Grange is seen at the center back entrance at the phone.) Mrs. GRANGE: Hello. Yes, Bishop. Well, I'm sorry to hear that. Is she very ill? Well, well. Yes, I'll go over just as soon as I possibly can. Yes, I'll take care of it. Goodbye. (Mrs. Grange calls a telephone number.) Hello. Mrs. Maxwell? This is Sister Grange. The Bishop just called to say Sister Robbins is very ill. I told him we would go over as soon as possible. That's fine. How soon can you be ready? All right, I'll call for you. Goodbye. THE CURTAIN SCENE II It is 4 o'clock. Beth Grange is seated at a table studying. George comes in left, noisily, throws his books on the table, sprawls in a chair. GEORGE: Where's mom? BETH: Don't you know what day this is? GEORGE: Oh, gosh! Tuesday. I suppose we're going to have beans for supper. BETH: What if we were? Beans are good, nourishing food. I like them and anyone who doesn't has poor taste. GEORGE: Sez you! I hate 'em. BETH: A fine soldier you'd make. As it happens we're not going to have beans. Hurry and get some coal and fix up the fire. As soon as the oven's hot, there are some individual meat pies to bake. GEORGE: Oh, swell. But just let me rest my weary bones awhile. (He props his feet up on the table where Beth has her papers.) BETH: George Grange! Take your big feet off my papers and off the table. And hurry and fix the fire. It's after four and you know mother always likes us to have a good fire when she comes. GEORGE: Oh, heck. I wish mom would quit that Relief Society job. BETH: What for? So she could stay home and keep up the fire and so save you, I suppose! Maybe you'd like her to even get your wood and coal. I think she has a perfect right to go to Relief Society if she wants to. GEORGE: Well, who said she hadn't. But I don't see why she wants to. Messing around with poor folks and sick folks and dead folks. That's not my idea of enjoying life. BETH: Well, someone has to do it and mother seems to think it's her duty just as much as anyone's. I think she's doing a pretty good job, if you ask me. Now get out and do your chores, and leave me alone. I've got lessons to get and it's Mutual tonight. GEORGE: Guess I don't have to go to Mutual, and guess I haven't lessons to get, and hard ones, too, not those baby Junior High lessons. BETH: Scram. (She throws a magazine at him.) I know they're terribly hard. That's why you generally come to me at the eleventh hour to get me to help you. GEORGE: Oh, gee, I'm tired, Betsy. Why couldn't you get a little exercise by making the fire once in a while? I'll bet you don't even know how. Gosh! Girls have an easy life. BETH: Poor little over-worked Georgie Porgie. I'm to prepare the dessert and if you don't leave me alone, it'll be just too bad, for I'm going to get my lessons no matter what. GEORGE: What are you going to make? BETH: Applesauce! Clear out of here. (She goes after him.) GEORGE (keeping out of her way): Gee whilikins, Betsy, why don't you make lemon pie? BETH: If you'd be decent and help instead of bothering me so much, I might try. GEORGE: OK. I'm your huckleberry. I mean your lemon. (He disarranges her hair or something of the sort.) BETH: I'll say you're a lemon, and a bad egg, too, and also a pie face. GEORGE (Taking her by the wrist): Well, come on, come on, if you want me to help you. I'm a busy man. BETH: Oh, all right, all right! CURTAIN SCENE III The setting is the same. Beth and George are seated at the table, Beth studying and George reading the funny paper, but with his books before him. Mrs. Grange is seated, darning stockings. Edith enters from left carrying some folded clothes. EDITH: I'm sorry I couldn't finish the ironing for you, mother. Mrs. GRANGE: That's all right dear, I'll finish it in the morning. GEORGE: Did you iron me a shirt? EDITH: No, I didn't, George. I abominate ironing shirts. (Edith continues on her way, going out center back.) Mrs. GRANGE: You have clean shirts in your drawer, George. GEORGE: No decent ones. Look at this one. Sleeves nearly up to my elbows. Mrs. GRANGE: You are growing, son. I'll iron you one first thing in the morning. EDITH (who has reentered): Why don't you try ironing yourself a shirt, George? GEORGE: Say, what kind of sissy do you think I am? EDITH: That wouldn't indicate that you are a sissy. You are always saying you hate girls and are never going to marry, so it might be a good idea to darn your sox and iron your shirts as well as to make pies. GEORGE: Aw, cut the kidding. I didn't make the old pie. All I did was make the fire and read the recipe. I noticed you ate it all right. Mrs. GRANGE: Don't tease, Edith. I think it was lovely of George and Beth to make pie for us. EDITH: I'm not teasing. I'm just giving a bit of good advice. I thought the pie was fine, even if we did have to eat it with a spoon. It reminded me of some of my own attempts. (She goes to Beth and pats her on the shoulder.) Don't get discouraged, Bethie, you're becoming a fine little cook. (She passes to George and tousles his hair.) You, too, Georgie. (She springs lightly out of his way as he swings his arms above his head. Not catching her, he smooths his hair.) GEORGE: She's just feeding us bologna, Beth, so she won't have to do anything. So EDITH: Are you nearly through, Beth? It's about time we were going. BETH: I just have to finish this page. (Edith starts out center back. The phone bell rings and she answers.) EDITH: Hello. I'll call her. For you, mother. Mrs. GRANGE: Yes? Oh, yes, Bishop. Is that so? No, I hadn't heard. I was there this afternoon and I could see she would not last long, but hardly thought it would happen quite so soon. Do you think we should go tonight? All right. We'll go first thing in the morning. Very well. Goodbye. GEORGE: There it goes. I'll bet I'll have to wear this shirt tomorrow, or one just as bad. Mrs. GRANGE: Shame on you, George. BETH: Is Sister Robbins dead? Mrs. GRANGE: Yes, poor old soul. I knew it would not be long. EDITH (reentering): Mother, what became of that brown dress of mine, with the plaid collar? Mrs. GRANGE: Why, I gave it away. I thought you said you wouldn't be wearing it any more. EDITH: Neither will I be. I believe I did say that. Mrs. GRANGE: I'm sorry. I should have asked you first. EDITH: That's all right. I had just thought I might fix it over, but perhaps I wouldn't have bothered. BETH: That's one hand-me-down I won't have to wear. GEORGE: By the way, mom, you didn't give that green sweater of mine away, did you? I haven't seen it for a dickens of a while. Mrs. GRANGE: Yes, I gave it away, George. You hadn't worn it for so long, I thought you were through with it. I gave it to Mrs. Montgomery for Phil. I feel sorry for those half-grown young people who get so few of the things they want. GEORGE: Gosh. I saw Phil with that sweater on and I thought it had a familiar look. Mrs. GRANGE: Well, I hope you don't begrudge it to him, and of course you won't let on that you recognize it. GEORGE: Of course not. Phil's a fine kid. He's welcome, but I'll bet it hurts to have to wear cast off clothes. BETH (rising and gathering up her papers): Don't I know! Mrs. GRANGE: I'm sure it won't hurt you children to realize that. (Edith enters dressed to go out and bringing Beth's hat.) BETH: Don't hurt yourself studying, Georgie Porgie. GEORGE: Don't worry about me. Mrs. GRANGE: Have a good time, girls. (They exit right.) I think I'll make out my report while you are studying. Then you can take it for me on your way to school in the morning. GEORGE: You wouldn't be able to hold that Relief Society job if it wasn't for my help, would you, mom? Mrs. GRANGE (on way out): I'm afraid not, George. (The phone bell rings and George answers.) GEORGE: Hello. I'll call her. (Calls.) Mother. Mrs. GRANGE: Hello. Yes, Mrs. James. Yes, it's Union Meeting Friday. Will you please call Sister Brown and tell her? She has charge of that, you know. She'll probably appoint someone to go in your place. That's all right. Goodbye. (Mrs. Grange is not seated when phone rings again.) Mrs. GRANGE: Hello. Oh, yes, Sister Richards. How nice. Where are you going? That will be lovely for you, but we will miss you at meeting. Will you notify Sister Johnson so she will take care of the class while you are away? That will be fine. I hope you have a splendid time. Goodbye. GEORGE: Mom, I should think you'd train those dames to call the ones who have charge of the work instead of bothering you all the time. Mrs. GRANGE: They know, but perhaps they think I should also be notified, and of course I should know. (Mrs. Grange is just seated and starts on her report when the doorbell rings.) GEORGE: Are you having a meeting here tonight? Mrs. GRANGE: No, dear. GEORGE: Cause if a lot of women are coming here, I want to get out. Mrs. GRANGE: Answer the door, please. GEORGE: Oh, good evening, Mrs. Baker. Good evening, Sally. Come right in. Mrs. BAKER: Is your mother home? Mrs. GRANGE: Come right in. (The usual greetings are exchanged, chairs taken, etc.) SALLY: Where's Beth? Mrs. GRANGE: She went to Mutual with Edith. GEORGE: Maybe I can take her place. SALLY: Sure you can. We came to see you. GEORGE: How nice. Mrs. BAKER: I came to tell you that I have the play selected and also the cast, in my mind. I'm just around notifying some of them tonight. I want George to take a part. GEORGE: Me? Not me. I'm not going to be in any Relief Society play. Mrs. BAKER: Sally and I both think you're just the one for the part. I hope you won't refuse. GEORGE: Naw. I can't act. I don't want to be in any show. Mrs. GRANGE: Don't be contrary, George. GEORGE: Well, I haven't got time. I have lots of lessons, and besides —well, I just can't do it. SALLY: Come on, George, be in it. We'll have lots of fun. GEORGE: Are you in it? SALLY: Yes. You and I have to play opposite. Mrs. BAKER: Show him the part, Sally, and let him see how cute it is. (Sally and George go to the table and lean over it reading and talking. Sally points and laughs and gestures all in dumb show.) Mrs. GRANGE (to Mrs. Baker): How soon do you expect to put it on? Mrs. BAKER: Within a month. (The two older women continue to talk unheard.) SALLY: Isn't it cute? You'll do it, won't you, George? He will mother. (George doesn't get a chance to protest and besides has weakened.) Mrs. BAKER: That's fine of you, George. I appreciate it. We'll meet tomorrow evening for the first reading. Now we must go, Sally. I want to see two or three others tonight. GEORGE: Say, am I the only male in this thing? Mrs. BAKER: Oh, no. You'll have plenty of backers. Don't worry about that. (Goodnights are said and Mrs. Baker and Sally exit.) GEORGE (taking out pocket mirror and surveying himself): Gosh, why don't people let you know when they're coming. Just look what a sight I am. My hair all tousled, and this shirt. Mrs. GRANGE: You look all right, dear. Well, let's get back to work. CURTAIN SCENE IV Time—A week later As the curtain rises, George is holding a small mirror and putting something on his lip. Beth and Edith enter from the left and pass to the right exit. EDITH: Using lipstick now, George? GEORGE: No, I'm not. Can't a fellow doctor a cold sore? BETH: Oh, Georgie Porgie! Been kissing the girls! (George glares at them as they pass out.) Mrs. GRANGE (entering from left): Why, how nice you look, George. Having practice tonight, aren't you? GEORGE: Yes. Mom, is there any way of stopping a cold sore? Mrs. GRANGE: You might try camphor. That may scatter it if it isn't too well developed. I'm afraid you're eating too many sweets, George. I'll bring the camphor when I come back. (She exits center back. While she is gone, George primps. Mrs. Grange returns and hands George a bottle.) Mrs. GRANGE: Here you are. GEORGE (smelling): Will it make me smell like this? Mrs. GRANGE: No, the odor won't last long. You'll take me to Sister Phillips' and call for me, won't you, George? GEORGE (dejectedly): Call for you—what time? Mrs. GRANGE: We're having a short meeting and a social, so it will be about 10:30. GEORGE: Oh, heck, ma. Mrs. GRANGE: What's the matter, dear? You are usually so willing to accommodate me. GEORGE: Well, I had other plans tonight. Mrs. GRANGE: I see. I wonder how we can arrange it. I suppose I could walk, or I could miss the social part if that would be best for you. GEORGE: Oh no, mother. I wouldn't have you do that. We usually get through practicing about ten. I was going to take Sally for a little spin after, but I suppose her mother will tag along anyway, as usual, so we may as well make it a foresome. Mrs. GRANGE: That doesn't sound very gracious, George. I don't know that I want you if you feel like that. GEORGE (putting his arm around her shoulder): Now, mom, 'course you want me. You know I think you're the finest mother I ever had. Have I got halitosis? Mrs. GRANGE: Don't be silly. I don't detect it. GEORGE: Well, let's be off. (Door bell rings.) Mrs. GRANGE: Answer the door. I'll get my cake. (E-vits left.) GEORGE (at door): Hello, Phil. Come in. PHIL: Is your mother home? GEORGE: Yes, she'll be here in a minute. Sit down. PHIL: No, I'll have to go back. Going to the game? GEORGE: No. I've got a practice. Are you? PHIL: I was going, but mother's sick. I just came to ask your mother to come over. She seems to know just what to do when mother gets one of these spells. GEORGE: Another heart attack? (Phil nods.) That's too bad. Mrs. GRANGE (entering from left with cake box): Good evening, Phil. GEORGE: His mother's sick again. Mrs. GrancE: Is that so? One of her attacks? PHIL: Yes. I guess you were going out, Sister Grange? I'm sorry to bother you, but as I was just telling George, you seem to know just what to do for her. Mrs. GRANGE: That's all right, Phil. We were having a meeting, 174 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE but they can get along nicely without me if necessary. (Quietly, to spare Phil.) George, you take this box to Sister Phillips and explain why I won't be there. Puiu: I'm afraid you were going to a party, Sister Grange. Mrs. GRANGE: Not much of a party. Just light refreshments after a way George get me the Spirits of Ammonia. (George exits center back. Putt: Maybe mother will be better in a while so you can go anyway. Mrs. GRANGE (bustling about putting on her apron, etc.): I hope she will, but don't worry. I'll stay until I think it safe to leave her. Puiu: I'd better hurry back. Sis gets so scared. Or do you want me to walk over with you? GEORGE (reentering): I'll bring mother over. (Phil exits hastily.) Mrs. GRANGE: Here take these things, George. I believe that's all I'll need. GEORGE: Gee, mom, it's too bad you have to miss that party. I'll bet you're disappointed, too, but you wouldn't let Phil know it. Mrs. GRANGE: It can't be helped, George. Duty first, you know. Tell the girls where I am, if they get home first. And don't stay out too late, will you dear? GEORGE: I'll come right home after practice and see how things are. Maybe you'll need me. I guess if you can give up a party, I can do a little sacrificing, too. Mrs. GRANGE: That's very sweet of you, George. Turn the light out. CURTAIN Is Your Child Afraid of Storms? By Virginia B. Jacobsen F your child is afraid of storms you should meet the situation at its earliest manifestation with wise sympathy and a firm yet understanding determination to right the condition. Most children will show evidence of fear of terrific wind storms, electrical storms, or heavy rain storms if there is not a wise parent or some other understanding adult at hand to explain the phenomenon. Many children become afraid of storms through watching an hysterical mother, older sister, aunt, friend or maid. Most of us have known some foolish mother who has stuffed key holes, pulled down the shades, and taken the children into a dark closet during an electrical storm. Such mothers are engendering a stupid and senseless fear in the minds of their children who would otherwise be fearless of such things. We humans must face too many storms in, our lives to be harnessed with such a handicap as fear of the elements. One wise mother made it a practice of taking her children, while still infants, out into the storms. She would laugh softly, and clap her hands at particularly brilliant electrical displays. This taught her children that it was something to be enjoyed, not something to fear and hide from. Another mother armed herself with accurate yet simple explanations of the cause and action of storms. When the occasion arose she was prepared to allay any fears which might arise in the minds of her youngsters. A CERTAIN family was spending the summer high up in the mountains of one of our canyons. Everything had been delightful until one day dark clouds began to gather. One of the aunts of the family began to fret and worry for fear it would storm and make it impossible for her husband to come up the canyon that evening. This fretting and worrying had its effect on the children who soon began to stay close to their mothers. Finally the storm broke. A flash of lightning tore through the grey sky. The nervous aunt screamed. Children who never before had been afraid of storms started to cry. Surely there must be something to be afraid of when Aunt Clara was so frightened. The storm was terrific; one which taxed even the nerves of 'the bravest of mothers to keep fear out of the hearts of the seven children in the party. The children were gathered together by one of the windows. Elizabeth, mother of four of the youngsters, explained about the clouds, and the thunder and lightning. Gradually the children grew quiet and listened. They sang songs, and clapped their hands when the thunder rolled. Aunt Clara continued to scream with each clap of thunder and flash of lightning. It was explained that Aunt Clara was not well, and, that _she was nervous, and that everyone must help to make her feel better. This gave the children a sense of responsibility which pleased them and helped them to forget their own timidity. 176 Gradually the cabin on the side of the hill seemed to be floating in a dense mist. Mother Elizabeth pointed out that they were actually inside a cloud. "Just think, children, now you can tell your friends how it looks and feels to be inside a cloud." A thrilling thought to even the tiny tots! The storm cleared and the clouds floated down into the valley and left the little party high up on the mountain with a billowing sea of clouds below. It was a rare experience which most of the children will never forget because one mother was wise enough to understand and point out the beauties of the elements on rampage. But the story does not end there. One little three year old of the family did not come out of that experience unscathed. She was too young to understand all of her mother's explanations and stories. The vivid picture which remained in her little mind was the fear exhibited by her neurotic aunt. The strange thing was that at home she showed very little signs of fear of storms, but for years afterward the mere appearance of grey clouds in the sky, while she was in the canyons, would send her scurrying to her mother's arms for comfort and shelter. For three consecutive summers her weeks spent in the canyon were over-clouded with fear of a storm. Finally her mother decided that something had to be done about the matter. So, she suggested that the children put on a little play for the grown-ups. "We will call our little play, The Good Little Cloud. The upper half of the stairway will be the sky, and the lower half will be the mountain. John will be the Sun; Pauline, the Moon, Bonnie and Beth will be the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Flowers down here on Earth; Jimmie and Tom will play the part of the Raindrops; and Jean (the nervous child) will be the Good Little Cloud. I will tell you the story and then you can practice the play and we will have it tonight while there is a bright fire in the fireplace." The interested children gathered around to hear the story. "Once upon a time there was a Little Cloud floating around in the sky. She was lonesome because she: had strayed away from her family. She wanted to do something to make someone happy, but she could not find anything to do. She asked the Sun if he knew of a job she could do, but the Sun only laughed at the Good Little Cloud. "You help?" laughed the Sun. "Clouds are only a nuisance. You clutter up my clean sky, and keep the Winds busy sweeping you away. You spoil picnics down on earth, because the earth folk think you are going to rain on them. No, Little Cloud, there is nothing for you to do, but you will please me if you will get out of my nice clean sky." "The poor Little Cloud felt sad and lonely, but she was a happy Little Cloud and could not stay sad very long. After a while the big bright Sun gradually sank out of sight, and the sky was dark. 'The Little Cloud felt more lonesome than ever then. Finally the sky began to grow light, and then lovely Lady Moon came up over the mountain. She smiled at Little Cloud. "Little Cloud, what are you doing out alone so late at night?" "T cannot find my family, and I can't find anything to do. Lady Moon, isn't there something that I could do to make someone happy? I want to be useful," pleaded the Little Cloud. IS YOUR CHILD AFRAID OF STORMS? "Indeed I do know of something that you can do to be useful! Do you see that lovely garden down there on earth? The Flowers have not had a drink for days. Do you see how they droop their pretty heads because they are so thirsty? You could send some Raindrops down and save their lives." "Oh, Lady Moon, you are so good and kind. I will send my Raindrops down and save the lovely garden." Then the Little Cloud clapped her hands, and down came the Raindrops. | Down, down, down they went until they came at last to the garden. The Raindrops danced among the Flowers, kissing their drooping heads. Finally the Flowers began to revive and straighten up. Then they raised their heads and drank the cool moisture from the Raindrops. 177 Lady Moon smiled at Little Cloud in the sky. "See, Little Cloud, you were useful after all, for you have saved the beautiful garden." HE children were delighted with the play and spent a whole afternoon rehearsing for the evening performance. Little Jean was particularly delighted with the honor of being the leading character, and entered into the part whole-heartedly. The evening performance went off exceptionally well, and the little play had the desired effect upon Jean. She seemed at last to realize that the clouds were friendly after all, and that the storms were only doing good. Surely there is some such solution for almost every case of fear of storms if we will only take the time and patience to find it. FAITH'S COMFORT By E. Heloise Merkley God sent a tiny snowflake To whiten Earth's dreary mould; It fell where the sun was shining, And vanished, though spring grew cold. God sent a lovely flowret To blossom in summer's day; But winds grew cold, and the tiny bud Drooped sadly to fade away. God sent a cherished baby To grow in a home of love. Its smile turned into suff'ring. God called it again above. But somewhere the snowflake is falling again And somewhere the bud opens wide. And some day the parents, forgetting their pain, Will smile with the babe at their side. What Contribution Can the Home and Community Make for the Advancement of Music? By Adeline Rasmussen Ensign IRST, what is music that we should contribute to its advancement? We have been told many times and in many different ways that music is of "Divine origin," "The Speech of Angels," etc., but I am not sure that we know its true value in applying it to our own lives. Music accompanies life through all its stages from the soft lullaby a mother sings to her new-born babe, to the sorrowful, sombre funeral march indicating the close of life. The "Morning Stars" sang for joy. David, the shepherd boy, soothed the spirit of King Saul with song. Armies have marched forward to victory urged on by the spirited, stirring music of the martial band, and broken hearts are comforted by music's healing power. I' thinking of a definition of music I would say, Music is that gift from God which penetrates the depths of the heart, reachable by no other means, to purify and refresh it. It stirs that something within us to look about for higher and nobler ideals and assists us in attaining them. It calms the most troubled mind and can change the whole outlook on life. ' Now, as to the place that music should take in our homes, Robert Louis Stevenson said this: "To make a home out of a household, a good fire and good music are necessary, and inasmuch as we can do without the fire for half the year, I may say music is the one essential.' Music is the educator of the soul and its duty is to strengthen it and if it is the main force in making a real home, is there a sacrifice too great then that a home can make for its advancement? We often see parents who wouldn't deny their children anything when it comes to their material welfare and comfort, but when it comes to their cultural development, where the soul of the child is involved, it is quite another matter. There is a vast difference between a child who has had the advantages of a musical education and one who has not. "Poverty of wealth is easily repaired: Poverty of soul is impossible to repair." Think it over. PERHAPS some homes cannot afford to have the extra expense of music lessons added to their budget. These past few years have dealt severely with a great many families, but music in these instances ease the situation and should be encouraged more than ever. The great music educator and pianist, Guy Maier, said: "Contrary to the general notion, I feel that an intelligent musical parent is often the best beginning teacher for a young child." Some of the great masters of music were taught by their parents. I wonder where Mozart would have received his training had it not been for his father. Bach, who is known as the father of modern music, received his first training from his father, the same is true with Beethoven, Schubert, Liszt and many of the other great musicians. WHAT CONTRIBUTION CAN WE MAKE? Many parents think that their responsibility ends when they place their child in the hands of a competent teacher, but they are mistaken. A child that practices daily under the influence of an interested parent is fortunate indeed. That child will make rapid progress and practicing will be a joy instead of drudgery. It also strengthens the bond between parent and child. IT is an interesting study to watch a group of children listening to the rendition of a musical selection. Age doesn't necessarily mean a thing. Perhaps the youngest child of the group is the most attentive. Why aren't the older children more appreciative? Understanding makes for greater enjoyment in everything that we do. When the famous painter, Whistler, was asked why the need of art study in painting, he replied: "Take the guard in the National Museum. He sees great masterpieces from morning to night. He lives among them for years, but in countless cases he knows far more about prize-fighting than he does about art. Merely rubbing up against art can not make one an artist or an art critic. The only way to know art is to study art." Catherine Drinker Bowen in her book, "Music: A Friend for Life," says, "If only our children could discover music for themselves, and not be pulled into it, sulking under the harness! Verbal persuasion is unwise; exposure, repeated exposure, to good music is what turns the trick. But it must include more than listening." HE radio is a great mental and spiritual asset to the home, but it should be used as an addition rather than a substitute to the music created by the members of the household. Radio programs should be 179 carefully selected, for if we make the right use of the radio, it will not only be the means of enjoyment, but the source of education. Imagine hearing a great symphony orchestra and an opera direct from the Metropolitan Opera House, in your own home. The wise parents will see that the children take advantage of ' these programs so their 'taste for good music will be developed. It will be interesting to contrast the different programs that are broadcast and encourage the desire for the higher type. However, no matter how beautiful the programs on the radio, they must not take the place of the music created by the, family. Can you imagine a more beautiful sight than to see a family where all are taking part, some playing on instruments, maybe some are singing, each one in tune with the others; each one trying to keep in harmony with the rest. Don't you think that this unity and training reaches farther than their music? Don't you think that it is carried into other fields in life? USIC is a safe-guard in the lives of young men and women for it leads them to desirable companions, and it occupies their time that would otherwise be wasted. It leads them to the better things in life where the common and vulgar have no place. It cultivates self-control. It teaches rhythm. All life moves in rhythm. Music must have rhythm to live, and when we respond to the rhythm in music, we find we are in step with the world. Rhythm makes life flow smoother. Wit music taking such a place in our home life isn't it natural that it should spread into our community activities? Business men are being awakened to the value of music. They are not only turn- 180 ing to it themselves for recreation, but they are fostering musical organizations within their own institutions. Have you noticed how happy every one is when engaged in community singing? Presidents have been elected by a stirring song sung during their campaigns. Every one likes to sing, it buoys up the spirit and all cares are forgotten. Wise employers are using music as a means for better cooperation and unity among their employees. Music is the best bond of comradeship. William Green, President of the American Federation of Labor said, "Music is a friend of labor for it lightens the task by refreshing the nerves and spirit of the worker. It tends to make work pleasurable as well as profitable and adds to the enjoyment of leisure time." Many of our most prominent men have had musical training. Einstein, the great scientist, is a capable violinist. The great steel king, Charles M. Schwab, was a music teacher and organist. FR PUCATORS are realizing more and more the value received from music training in our schools. Some of our United States Commissioners of Education and our School Superintendents say, "The value of music in our schools can hardly be over-estimated. Probably after the three R's music is of greater value than any other subject." "Music has the greatest cultural importance of any other subject; it has a practical importance as great as reading, writing and arithmetic." ''Music is essential in the development of the aesthetic life and the emotional life, and is just as important in the school program as arithmetic." Realize that these statements were made by men who are not musicians, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE At the annual convention of School Superintendents, otherwise known as the Department of Superintendents, these resolutions were unanimously adopted: 1—That we favor the inclusion of music in the curriculum on an equality with other basic subjects. We. Believe that, with the growing complexity of civilization, more attention must be given to the arts and that music offers possibilities as yet partially realized for developing an appreciation of the finer things of life. We, therefore, recommend that all administrative officers take steps toward a more equitable adjustment of music in the educational program, involving time allotment, number and standard of teachers and equipment provided. 2—We believe that an adequate program of high school music instruction should include credit, equivalent to that given other basic subjects, for properly supervised music carried on both in and out of school. 3—Recognizing the great interest manifested at this meeting toward making music a more vital element in education, we recommend that this subject shall continue to receive attention of the Department of Superintendents, and be included in the discussion groups of its annual program. L® us make every day, music day. Let us not merely listen, but along with our children let us participate, for when we once know the joy and satisfaction gained by expressing ourselves in that great universal language, the "Language of the Soul,” then, and only then will we know the true value of music. "From the heart it hath come and to the heart it shall penetrate,' Mother Makes a Rag Carpet By Zipporah L. Stewart AUTUMN was a glorious season on the farm, when I was a child. I associate with it not only the lovely color and the days of Indian summer haze, but other memories, that have become richer and more filled with sacred meaning as the years go by. Fondest among these, is the memory of my mother's old-fashioned rag bee. In those dear old days when the kitchen and dining room occupied the same space in our farm home, it was customary to make a carpet every other fall. Preparations for this gala rag bee day began a week in advance. First of all a day was chosen that would not interfere with any other activity in the neighborhood. One member of the family was sent with a note inviting all the women who lived nearby. Those who lived farther away were invited at church on Sunday. No one, I'm sure, so far as my mother knew was ever slighted. THE rags were the next thing to consider. Rags that had been collected since the last carpet was made, were brought out and dumped in a pile. On the floor, ready for tearing. There were rags of every color and of every hue. Old outing flannel nightgowns, petticoats, calico aprons, skirts, dressing sacks, threadbare blankets, furniture calico lounge covers, and a variety of faded well worn pants, underwear and stockings. Mother with one of my older sisters prepared them and we younger ones did the tearing. Each article as it was pulled from the pile brought memories of its past usefulness or occasions associated with it in some way. Two or three evenings spent with the rag pile, and they were ready for the bee. NEXT the house must undergo a general clean-up. Especially the parlor and kitchen where the guests would be: The stoves were polished with black lead and the nickle parts scrubbed and shined. A brass boiler on the side of our "Home Comfort" range was cleansed with salt and vinegar and made to gleam like a mirror. Pots. And pans were scoured. Sunday dishes were taken from the top shelves of the cupboard, washed well and put back. Walls and ceilings were dusted and curtains were shook. The beautiful old brussels carpet on the parlor floor, with its bright red roses and shaded green leaves, was swept and sponged until it looked like new. Everything was in apple pie order and we children were begged to keep it so, at least till the guests arrived. THE real fun began the day be before the bee, when mother made the pies and doughnuts. A large crock jar of home rendered lard was carried in from the cellar. The bread pan full of mince meat, made especially for this dinner, was placed on our kitchen table. The pie making began early in the morning. By noon time ten or twelve were baked and cooling on the table. What beautiful pies they were. I say beautiful, because they were so 182 perfect, with their pretty open cut flower design on top, the krinkled edge and the golden brown color. Of course I need not tell you they were delicious. I shall never forget them. After dinner the doughnut making began. For hours mother would stand over an iron kettle of boiling hot, home rendered lard. She cooked the doughnuts while one of my older sisters, who had stayed from school | to help, sugared them. Dozens were made before they ever thought of stopping. Toward evening the chickens were brought in. After supper we younger ones sat around the table and watched mother and the older girls clean them, and cut them up ready for the chicken stew next day. WHEN bed time came everything about the house was immaculately clean. It seemed almost like the night before Christmas. Mother was tired but always a feeling of satisfaction and contentment radiated from her after a day's work like this had been accomplished. She loved to know that her pantry shelves were loaded with good things to eat and that her neighbors and friends were coming on the morrow to enjoy it with her. AT last the rag bee day arrived. We were always excused from school on this day to help mother and to care for the babies and young children who came, so the mothers could work. As soon as breakfast dishes were washed and chickens on to stew, the guests began to arrive. Mary Ann Egbert was so dependable. She was first to come and last to go. Then came Vickey, Rose and Ruth Layton. These three always came together, they married brothers, and lived in a row down our street. Next RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Aunt Flora and Aunt Zina came. Then Aunt Hattie Smith and dear old Sister Dibble. Soon Mable Flint came quietly walking in, with shy, timid, little Osmond by her side. A few minutes later Lizzie Day, Mary Phillips and Aunt Annie Layton could be seen strolling up the long path from the street. A stranger who had not heard of the rag bee, might have wondered what it was all about, for on all the country roads nearby these dear ladies could be seen strolling our way, with their sewing bags on their arms and their white tie around aprons, with tucks and crocheted lace at the bottom showing below their coats. An hour later the guests from far away began to drive in the lot with their small run about buggies, drawn by the old family horses. My father, or the hired man was always on hand to take care of these horses and put them in the stable for the day. By eleven o'clock they had all arrived and were busily at work on the rags. WHAT a picture they presented in our parlor on those occasions. They sat in groups around the outer walls of the room. Interesting, chatty groups. Discussing their own household tasks and giving plans and advice for the future of each other. Their faces all alight with the spirit of neighborly friendliness and cheer. How happy and contented each seemed in the act of helping a neighbor and friend. By noon a pile of neatly wound balls were in the center of the room. At twelve-thirty the first call for dinner came, as they could not all be seated around the table at one time the older ones went first. The younger ones and children were seated at a second or third table. MOTHER MAKES A RAG CARPET What a feast awaited them in the kitchen. Stewed chicken with dumplings, my mother's specialty and the guests rather expected this main dish at her rag bees. Then there were boiled parsnips with butter, cabbage slaw, mashed Irish potatoes, chili sauce, a variety of home-made pickles, mince pies, and doughnuts. The deserts were all on the table when the guests were seated, except the rolly polly pudding with potowatomy plums inside, another of mother's favorites. This was served last minute piping hot, with a delicious dip on top that smelled of nutmeg and cinnamon. How their busy hands did work during the afternoon. By evening every rag was sewed into large neat tightly woven balls. The guests began to depart. Their "good-byes" were so honest and sincere. Usually a few husbands called in the evening to give their wives a ride home: Of course they were always served hot mince pie or doughnuts before they departed. "THE whole affair seemed somehow to strengthen a friendship in the neighborhood that time has  183 never changed, but as the years go by, grows stronger with its memories. The rags were gathered up and placed in large sacks ready for the weaver. We children looked forward to a trip over to the Fort, where the rags would be taken to Mrs. Harvey's to be woven. In a few weeks the new roll of carpet was brought home. How proud my mother was, when it was carried into the house and rolled out over the floor for the first inspection. During the long winter evenings she spent her time sewing the long strips together. The younger children sat about her rubbing bees wax on the thread she sewed with, to give it added strength. How happy we all were when the last strip was attached and the rag carpet was finished and ready for the kitchen in the spring. It had been a rather tedious task from beginning to end. But the joy and satisfaction my mother felt when it was completed was worth it all. I think today few women experience such a thrill with a beautiful new Wilton rug. "I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence ' shall flow down from this time." "By union of feeling, we obtain power with God." "This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls.'"—The Prophet Joseph Smith. Why Was the Prophet Joseph Smith's First Vision the Vision of the Father and the Son? By Isaac B. Ball MAGNIFICENT monument to commemorate the first vision of the Prophet Joseph Smith has recently been dedicated on the summit of the Hill Cumorah in upper New York State. It is fitting to ask, Did the vision in the Sacred Grove possess a primacy of importance corresponding to its primacy in time. Does the first vision stand first because it is really first, logically and doctrinely, among the many manifestations to the Prophet? Order indeed is a high law of heaven, we are told. Did the Lord here, as we can see He did in so many other instances, actually place first things first? A list of the bed-rock doctrines of truths taught in this vision, and the correlatives that logically follow these fundamental truths is decidedly illuminating. The Son still has his resurrected body with which He ascended into heaven. The Father has a similar body, also in human form. In other words, both the Father and the Son have identically formed bodies in whose image man is created. Since the Son took His body with Him into heaven, and retained it, man also will take his body with him at the Resurrection and retain it. As the Father, so the Son, and so the other obedient sons. The vision, then, is a vision of man's origin, and also a promise of his destiny, the most interesting and the most important things in the world for him to know. Hence. Origins are fundamental for they point authentically to potentialities. See the tree whence came the shoot and the seed, and you see the future trees also. By learning what the Father and the Elder Brother have so far attained, the children of men may judge of their own possibilities. This vision illumines the Savior's admonition: be ye perfect even as your Father in heaven is perfect. The vision is a demonstration of exaltation, the summation of eternal progress. From it flows the world's loftiest doctrine of man's destiny: As God is so man may become. Implicit in that vision stands the Heavenly Mother with the Father, beside the Son, answering the query, In the heavens are parents single? Hence preexistence in the heavenly home. The eternity of the family relationship and of the marriage covenant follow logically. Therefore we conclude that this ineffably lovely vision that May morning in 1820 in the Sacred Grove, New York State, is first in foundation truth as well as first in sequence of time, for it epitomizes in its beauty and holiness the whole Scheme of Things, the entire Plan of Life: Fatherhood; Sonship; Eternal Progress; Exaltation. In very deed do we rightly designate it, The First Vision, for it stands everlastingly the Fundamental Truth from whence all other Truths proceed. A Welcome Visitor By Clarissa A. Beesley BERTHA ANDERSON HULMES THE Prophet Joseph Smith! Name revered among Latter-day Saints as that of one chosen of God—the Seer—the Restorer of the Gospel in the fulness of times. Those favored ones who knew him in the flesh loved him with a deep devotion, and those who have lived since have yearned with a great longing to be worthy one day to look upon his face and clasp his hand. Emma Hale Smith! Name also honored by Latter-day Saints as that of the loved companion who stood by the side of the Prophet during those troublous times of Palmyra, Kirtland, Nauvoo; who was close to him and even assisted him in the translation of the Nephite record; first to stand at the head of the great woman's organization, the Relief Society; and the woman to be designated by divine revelation as "an elect lady," chosen to compile hymns for the Church. IT was with full appreciation of this noble ancestry and also with love and appreciation of her for her own sake, that relatives and friends and members of the women's General Boards welcomed to Salt Lake City, during the Christmas holidays, Mrs. Alfred W. Hulmes, of Detroit, Michigan. Bertha Anderson Hulmes is the great granddaughter of the Prophet Joseph and Emma Hale Smith. Her grandfather was Joseph Smith, oldest son of the Prophet and first President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Reorganized, and her mother is his daughter, Audentia Smith Anderson, of Omaha, Nebraska. Mrs. Hulmes' son, Alfred, Jr., is in Salt Lake City, attending the University of Utah. While here Mrs. Hulmes was the guest of Emily Smith Stewart and was entertained also by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith and wife and others of the Smith family, themselves relatives and descendants of the Prophet and his brother Hyrum Smith. A BEAUTIFUL reception was given in honor of Mrs. Hulmes by the General Board of Relief Society. In the receiving line, besides the visitor, were President Louise Y. Robison, of the Relief Society, President Ruth May Fox of Y. W. M. I. A., Pres. May Anderson of the Primary Association, Mrs. S. O. Bennion, who had known Mrs. Hulmes intimately in Independence, Mo., Mrs. Emily Smith Stewart and others. The occasion was graced by the presence of President Heber J. Grant and others of the General Authorities, while many women responded to the invitation, proud and happy to meet the great granddaughter of their first president. Those of us who had met this gracious woman before were particularly happy to renew her acquaintance. We recalled—indeed we had been remembering it ever since—that important event in 1933, when, in Nauvoo, Illinois, a monument was erected by the Relief Society on the spot where the Prophet Joseph Smith brought into existence that organization. The ground upon which the monument stands is the property of the Reorganized Church, the leaders of that Church having generously permitted its placement there. ON the occasion of the dedication ceremony, July 26, 1933, conducted by President Louise Y. Robison and her counselors, members of both Churches participated in a service never-to-be-forgotten, of tribute and love to Joseph and Emma Smith and of gratitude for the great work they accomplished. To Mrs. Hulmes was given the honor of unveiling the monument. She was assisted by her own little daughter and the granddaughter of President Robison. Although our association with her at that time was brief we learned to love her dearly and to feel that she was our sister and friend. She and her husband, a man of fine character and personality, her mother and other members of her Church showed the delegation from Utah every courtesy and kindness. It is good to meet and to know such a woman as Mrs. Hulmes. She is not only beautiful in feature, but her spirit and influence are beautiful. Her voice is pleasing, her manner gentle. She is refined and educated. We could not help wishing that all of our women and particularly our M. I. A. Girls might come under the charm of her presence. Her outward graciousness is but the expression of the intelligence, sincerity and fine spiritual nature within. Something of her modesty and earnestness may be caught from these brief words, written since her return home: "That beautiful reception of the Relief Society was a wonderful tribute to the memory of my beloved great grandmother, Emma Hale Smith, and I can never tell you how much I appreciate the privilege of sharing the joy of that occasion." Our best wishes, our sincere affection, go with Mrs. Hulmes to her home in the East. We shall hold her in highest regard and look forward to future happy meetings. What to Serve at Our Birthday Party By Camilla E. Kimball WE look forward every year with pleasant anticipation to our anniversary celebration. The fine programs interest and stimulate us, but we are just children grown tall, and we do look forward to the refreshments. It is not intended that party refreshments should be substantial and filling—none of us are especially hungry for food—but they should be dainty and attractive. Quality rather than quantity should be the aim. Since March 17 is St. Patrick's Day and the beginning of springtime too, we may keep this motif in mind in planning the refreshments. A color scheme lends art to eating and green and white are especially refreshing. No birthday party is really complete without a birthday cake, and there is sure to be some member of your society who has a gift at making cakes and who would be delighted to make a birthday cake. A white cake adapts itself nicely to color scheme and decoration. Covered with snowy "Seven Minute" icing and then simply decorated with green tinted "Ornamental Frosting" it will be a thing of beauty and a joy. Serve a small piece of the birthday cake with Pistachio Ice Cream —"Emerald Fruit Cup" topped with a spoonful of whipped cream — Pineapple Sherbet or limeade and your green and white lunch will be attractive, dainty, and delicious. If you do not wish to make a birthday cake, try serving a variety of tiny open-faced sandwiches with pineapple punch tinted green. Of course cookies and punch are the easiest refreshments to serve and maybe just the thing. Try having the cookies very thin and crisp and perhaps shaped like a clover leaf and try a new kind of punch. Mint flavored lemonade with a leaf of fresh mint in each glass is very refreshing. Let me emphasize again that the success of your refreshments will not depend upon the quantity and variety of food you serve but the exclamations of appreciation will come for the dainty, attractive, even though very simple menu. RECIPES White Cake 1/3 cup butter 1 cup sugar 2 cups cake flour Whites of 3 eggs 2 level teaspoonsful baking powder 2/3 cups milk 1 teaspoon flavoring extract (3/4 tsp. Vanilla and 1/4 tsp. Almond) Mix same as plain butter cake, adding stiffly beaten whites last. Bake in round pans of graduated size for birthday cake. You will be more successful if you make only this amount at one time and repeat as many times as necessary to make the desired number of layers. Seven Minute Icing 1 cup sugar 1 egg white 3 tablespoons water 1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar Add sugar to the boiling water in top of double boiler. Then add unbeaten egg white and cream of tartar. Place over boiling water and beat with dover egg beater for seven minutes or until of desired thickness. Butter Decorative Icing Cream 4 tablespoons of butter until smooth and light, adding gradually 1 1/4 cups of sifted confectioner's sugar, alternating with a few drops of milk as it stiffens. Flavor and color as desired and use in pastry tube for decorative cakes. Emerald Fruit Cup 1 pkg. Lime Jell-o 1 pt. Warm water 2 cups mixed fruit, diced and chilled (pears, peaches, cherries, canned pineapple, grapes, etc.) Dissolve Jell-o in warm water. Pour into pan. Chill until it begins to set. Add fruit and mold in small molds. Pineapple Sherbet 3 cups milk 1 cup heavy cream 2 lemons 2 cups sugar 1 small can crushed pineapple Few drops of green fruit coloring Mix lemon juice, pineapple, coloring, and sugar. Whip cream and combine with chilled milk. Add fruit mixture to milk and cream, stirring vigorously. Freeze at once. Limeade 1 pkg. Lime "Kool-Ade" Juice of 2 lemons 2 cups sugar Water Mix to taste. Lemon Milk Sherbet Juice of 2 lemons 1 1/2 cups sugar 3 cups milk 1 cup cream Mix lemon juice and sugar and add milk and cream gradually. Freeze. Suggestions for Open Faced Sandwiches Minced parsley and lettuce in Mayonnaise on circles of whole wheat bread. Minced olives and cheese on toasted crackers. Peanut butter mixed with Mayonnaise and a little thick cream on small triangles of bread. Deviled egg mixture makes a tasty open sandwich. Tuna fish with chopped sweet pickles and Mayonnaise on whole wheat bread. Crisp Sugar Cookies 1/2 cup butter 1 cup sugar 2 eggs beaten light 1 tablespoon cream 2 1/2 cups flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1/4 teaspoon grated nutmeg Grated rind 1 lemon Mix in the same manner as for butter cake. Roll part at a time into a thin sheet, and cut with a cooky cutter. Dredge with granulated sugar, and bake in a quick oven. If you would like to feature the Relief Society colors of blue and yellow in your refreshments you might use the blue and yellow candles on your white cake, or the pure fruit coloring. Blue is not a food color and so is rather difficult to feature but the blue candles would be attractive and there are many ways of using the yellow. Orange Sherbet is always appreciated. Orange Sherbet 3 cups milk 1 cup heavy cream 2 lemons 2 oranges 2 cups sugar Mix strained orange and lemon juice with sugar. Whip cream and combine with cold milk. Add fruit mixture to milk and cream stirring vigorously. Freeze at once. If the weather is still too cold for the frozen dessert to be used you can always use hot chocolate or cocoa with the birthday cake, cookies or sandwiches. Or did you ever try making milk postum? Make a syrup of sugar, postum, and water as you do for making cocoa, allowing one rounded teaspoon of Instant Postum and a rounded teaspoon of sugar to a cup of milk. Use just enough boiling water to dissolve the postum. Many prefer Postum to cocoa and it is more healthful. Put a spoonful of whipped cream or a marshmallow in each serving as you serve it. Lima Bean Chowder (By Barbara M. Adams) Serves 24 2 c. Chopped green peppers 1/2 c. Diced carrots 4 c. Tomatoes, peeled 4 c. Lima beans 4 small onions 1/2 c. Rice, blanched 1/2 c. Thin cream Salt and pepper to taste. Soak beans over night, cook rice, cook vegetables until almost done, mix and finish cooking. Add cream. Serve. (This was served at Parowan Stake Convention.) Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon MARCH—Spring is here, for a blue bird shot across the sky today and the pussy willows peeped above the marsh. QUEEN MARY'S calm dignity in her hour of sorrow held the admiration of the world. True to the duties of her high office she sent a message of sympathy to the newly made widow of the poet, Kipling, when with breaking heart, she awaited her own widowhood. DAME CLARA BUTT, popular English contralto, died recently, age 63. During her career she was honored by royal commands to sing at the courts of Victoria, Edward VII and George V. PEARL S. BUCK'S book "The Exile," is a tender biography of her mother who was an American missionary in China. THE ROMANTIC REBELS, by Frances Winwar, is the dramatic story of Shelley, Byron and Keats. It is one of the most fascinating of recent books. ISHBEL McDONALD, daughter of former prime minister, is now running a fashionable inn near Chequers, county seat of her father. JOSEPHINE ANTOINE of Boulder, Colorado, is one of the youngest and newest metropolitan stars. Her western charm has captivated the east. MISS MABEL VERA SANES is directing the play activities of 5,000 boys from tenement districts in Chicago. She is said to be the only woman in the world completely in charge of a boys' club. GERTRUDE ATHERTON'S new novel, "Golden Peacocks," will appear this month. The author at 78 writes as vigorously as ever. MISS GLORIA HOLLISTER of the New York Zoological Society, when with the Bermuda expedition went to the bottom of the sea, sealed in a steel ball. She is now back home telling the interesting story. CARRIE JACOBS BOND while visiting in New York, was caught in the whirlwind of a celebrity furor. Of the 200 songs she has written she says her favorite is "Memory's Garden." The one more often sung, however, is "The End of a Perfect Day." MRS. HATTIE CARAWAY, only woman in the United States Senate, is elated over the appointment of Mrs. Long, widow of the late Huey P. Long, to fill the unexpired term of the fiery Senator. Mrs. Long's friends expect to elect her at the next Louisiana election next April for the short term. FASHIONS for women this season have shorter skirts and bolero jackets and are very colorful. Some say daring styles forecast war. MME. DE SAINTE OPPORTUNE of France, age 104, is keenly alive to the things of the present, reads the dailies and walks in the park every day. This modern French lady has brilliant rivals even in Utah—Mary Field Garner, age 100, of Ogden; Emily Lowder. 95, of Parowan; Tranquilla S. Jordan, 90, of Fairview, were very gay at their birthday parties this year. A Singing Heart (Eva Willes Wangsgard) By Ada Hurst Brown "O, give me the magic of singing heart, The music of rhythmical words, The wonder that quickens the tears to start For joy at the song of the birds! "O, give me the keenness of fairy sight, For flowers have hearts I would see, A spirit that follows a bird in his flight, Communes with the soul of a tree! "O, give me the sweetness that clovers yield, The gladness of butterfly wings, For I would carry the message afield Of joy in all beautiful things." THIS, the key poem of Eva Willes Wangsgard's book of verse, "Singing Hearts," is a fitting key to the author's personality as well as to her merry, cheerful poems. She, indeed, has the wished-for "magic of singing heart" and "keenness of fairy sight." She takes such delight in composing her verses that it is no wonder that they are so delightful to read. The story of Mrs. Wangsgard's success is almost like a fairy tale. Until two years ago, she had no idea that she could write poetry. She had been too busy being wife, housekeeper, and school teacher, as well as bringing two boys and a girl to splendid young manhood and womanhood to think of doing any writing. It was after married teachers were ruled out of Ogden City schools and she stayed at home with her housework, that the poems began to come "thick and fast, from nowhere," she says. At first she was almost annoyed. She had planned on a nice, long rest after her years in the school room, but these poems would not let her rest. They tugged at her constantly. If she relaxed they came faster than ever, as many as four and five in one day. It was as if something had been bottled up inside her all these years; something that must have immediate expression. Still she did not think consciously of becoming a writer; she simply expressed the things she felt. Her earlier poems were merry, happy little verses for children, personifying natural phenomena. The very first of these was a swing song, inspired by neighboring children singing in a swing. Some of these verses came complete with joyous melodies, while she was scrubbing floors or ironing. The next poems that came were adult love poems. She had never used a typewriter, but she obtained one now, and began typing her work. Her first poem for grown-ups sold to the Improvement Era; her second to Canadian Bookman. She sent things to other magazines, many of which were not accepted, but she almost invariably received a short note from the editors to whom she sent them. By this time Mrs. Wangsgard decided that it was not written that she should rest, and she went to work in earnest. She worked harder than she had ever done in her life, studying technique and spending infinite hours revising her poems. "I can carry them around in my head and polish them while I polish the silver," she says. A remarkable memory enables her to give, without notice, any one of her more than two hundred poems. A WRITER'S magazine for which Mrs. Wangsgard subscribed, carried a list of poetry magazines that she thought would make a good proving ground. She picked out ten poems that seemed suitable for certain magazines, and seven out of the ten were accepted. Of the three rejections, one said the poem was too long for their purposes, and another said they bought only from their subscribers. Since then she has had poems published in many prominent magazines including Expression, Cycle, Sonnet Sequences, All Story, Zion's Herald, Young People's Leader, Lutheran Boys and Girls, Driftwind, Bozart and Contemporary Verse, American Author, and Portland Oregonian, besides all the local magazines and newspapers. UP until May, 1934, Mrs. Wangsgard worked ceaselessly, but aimlessly, not knowing if she would ever do anything worthwhile with her writing. Then one morning as she awoke she said, "I know what the name of my book is to be." "Oh, are you going to write a book?" asked her husband. "I guess I am," she replied, "because the title is to be 'Singing Hearts'," and she recited the key-poem to him. Now came the task of selecting and publishing the eighty-one poems that make up the book. The love poems were eliminated because they didn't seem to fit in. Dr. Driggs, who wrote the foreword for "Singing Hearts," suggested that she also leave out her children's poems and make another book of them. This she did, calling it "When One is Small." This book has not yet been published. The problem of finding a publisher for her book confronted her next. She thought she would probably have to send it out several times, and she would start near home. She sent the manuscript to the Caxton Printers, Ltd., Caldwell, Idaho, and they accepted it, publishing it in September, 1935, with a cover that Mrs. Wangsgard designed herself. EVA WILLES WANGSGARD is of true pioneer stock. Her grandmother, Melissa Lott Smith, came to Utah with the second company of pioneers in September of 1847. Her grandfather, Ira Jones Willes, entered Utah by way of California with the disbanded Mormon Battalion in 1848. His brother Sydney was at Sutter's mill before the presence of gold there was generally known, and picked up a nugget from the mill race. Since their uniform buttons were mother-of-pearl and silver, it occurred to the brothers that they could be fashioned into interesting souvenirs. They removed the shanks, melted the nugget, and dropped a tiny ball of gold into the center of each button. Then, attaching pins to the under side of each, they had unique brooches. Mrs. Wangsgard holds hers as one of her dearest treasures. On her mother's side, her grandfather, James Munns, and her grandmother, Elizabeth Collis Munns, came direct from England to Utah in the seventies and settled in Lehi where the Willes family had been sent by Brigham Young among the first colonists to go there in 1849, soon after her grandfather and grandmother Willes' marriage. Her father, Lyman B. Willes, born in Lehi in 1858, met and married Sarah Ann Munns and settled in the home town where their seven living children were born, Eva being the fifth. She attended the public schools and the High School at Lehi. OF her early home training, Mrs. Wangsgard says that she and her brothers and sisters were guided, but no restrictions were placed on them except what came from within. Her parents seemed to take it for granted that their children would do the right thing, and they walked straight enough that she really doesn't know what punishment would have followed an overt act. When Eva left to attend the University of Utah, her father handed her a blank check book and merely asked her to be a little prudent. Although she was anemic and far from well, she finished her normal course in one year, and taught school in Lehi two years. Then she married David Wangsgard, and they moved to Mt. Pleasant, where her husband taught school for two years. At the end of this time they moved to Huntsville to take care of a store and farm belonging to Mr. Wangsgard's parents. They spent three years in Huntsville. There was a scarcity of teachers, and Mrs. Wangsgard was urged to teach. She had a small breast-fed baby at the time, but she went to work, leaving the baby in care of a neighbor's daughter while she was in school, and feeding it at eight, twelve and four o'clock. She taught two years in Huntsville, then her husband was asked to take the superintendency of the schools of Malad. They had sold the store in Huntsville, and had bought more land. Mr. Wangsgard was in business with his brother, so when they went to Malad his brother's family took over the management of the farm. After two years in Idaho they moved to Ogden to be nearer their property, and they have lived there ever since. Until 1933 Mrs. Wangsgard taught in various schools in Ogden, spending eight years at Lewis school. Most of the time she taught history and geography, but she has also taught English, sewing and mathematics. BESIDES composing all the poems she has done since she stopped teaching school, Mrs. Wangsgard has written two prize-winning ward plays. These are musical plays for which she wrote both words and music. The first is called "Yellow Roses" and the second "Evening Glow." They were used in the annual road shows during 1934 and 1935 in the Seventeenth Ward, Mt. Ogden Stake. Mrs. Wangsgard hopes sometime to write successful operettas. She has had many encouraging letters from song editors, but has not yet sold a song, since she has spent most of her time and energy on her book and her magazine work. One of the most impressive things about Mrs. Wangsgard, and one that other writers would do well to emulate, is her indefatigable industry. Since she started to write she has composed over two hundred poems. besides her songs, stories, and articles. One reason she has written poems instead of prose is that she can compose rhymes while she goes about her other work. She has written two juvenile stories, both of which she has sold. MRS. WANGSGARD has an attractive personality and an infectious laugh. She is thrilled about her work and about life, and the beauty of it is, she is interested not only in her own, but in other people's work and lives as well. So she makes a splendid friend. She takes no credit for the lovely things she writes. They just come to her, she says, and it is her duty and her pleasure to pass them on. "O, give me the sweetness that clovers yield, The gladness of butterfly wings. For I would carry the message afield Of joy in all beautiful things." "If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." "You should be armed always with mercy. Would have God have mercy on you, have mercy on one another."—The Prophet Joseph Smith. Notes to the Field Visiting Teachers' Attendance at Relief Society Meetings IN answer to frequent questions that come into the office as to whether the Visiting Teachers should attend regular Relief Society meetings or not, the following ruling was made by the General Board: "That where women do not consistently attend regular Relief Society and Visiting Teacher Training Meetings, they may be relieved of their duties as Visiting Teachers." We recall with pride the fact that the institution of the Visiting Teachers goes back to the very early history of our organization. The great good they have done has been the subject of numberless eulogies. Keeping in step with the march of progress, the General Board has been most anxious to do everything to aid the teachers in their fine work. They are the tie that binds the Society to the communities. They cannot carry the full message of Relief Society if they do not get the spirit of the work and make themselves familiar with the wonderful activity and educational program offered through the regular meetings. Socialized Lessons THE great success which is being realized in the lesson courses of Relief Society is most gratifying. There are reports, however, which occasionally reach the office, that lessons are not socialized, that the class leaders give excellent lessons, but do all the work. In some cases they read extensively from the works of the authors under consideration. We are most appreciative of the fine efforts of our class leaders, but realize that self-effort is the only thing which really educates, so to reach the highest degree of excellence, a leader must secure class participation. This may be by assignments, questions or various methods. It often requires careful, prayerful and persistent effort, but it can be done. There is something in every lesson which touches our lives directly or indirectly, and everyone, no matter how humble, can make some contribution. Literary Lessons DESPITE of all that has been said, we understand that some literary leaders still feel that they must cover all the material given in the Magazine. It is impossible to do this well. We feel that it is better to pick out portions of it than to give a smattering of everything in the lesson. However, there are times when the wise teacher will give a very brief review of a part of the lesson that she had intended to leave out owing to conditions; for instance, many teachers in Salt Lake City who intended to spend the entire time on Maeterlinck's Bluebird, when they knew that the Midsummer Night's Dream was coming to a Salt Lake theatre, gave a brief resume of this play to whet the appetites of the women to see it and so they would get more from it when they did go. Comment on Teachers' Topic for April ALL visiting teachers who faithfully present the topic in each home are becoming better versed on the Bible. By repetition of the Proverb they are increasing their "Mental furniture." "The ethical teachings of the Bible," (some of which we have in Proverbs), "are certainly as much a part of our national ideals as any expression of popular government by Lincoln or in the Declaration of Independence itself." Conference Reports at Union Meetings THE Relief Society is fortunate in being able to hold two general conferences a year—one in April. One in October. No effort is spared to make these conferences opportunities where help is given to the whole organization. The Stakes make great efforts to send representatives to Salt Lake to get information which belongs to the organization. Often no report of this is made upon the return of the visitors to the Stakes, and valuable instructions are lost. It is recommended by the General Board that a portion of the time in the first Union Meeting following the General Conferences be set aside for a report of the visiting representatives. TEACHERS' TOPIC Comment on Teachers' Topic for the month of May TITHING—Proverbs 3:9-10 THE law of Tithing is so just that it has received the admiration of many of those who make a study of it. It is interesting to note that in recent years attempts have been made by a number of other sects to adopt the system of Tithing. How do you pay your Tithing, monthly or yearly? It is recommended that those who receive a salary monthly, pay Tithing monthly. It is much easier to do this than to wait until the end of the year and pay the whole amount at once from the December allowance, which means the payment of one-tenth of the whole income from one-twelfth of it. Try the monthly plan. LITERARY DEPARTMENT OUR literary lessons suggest and inspire much enrichment from supplemental reading. The lesson for March seems particularly timely since the death of Rudyard Kipling has brought so much publicity concerning him and his great accomplishments. Near the same time seventy years ago, Rudyard Kipling and King George V, opened their eyes for the first time, and within three days of January 1936, each closed his eyes for the last time on earth. During the twentieth century three men of letters have been honored with burial in Westminster Abbey; Rudyard Kipling is the last of the three to be so honored. Through his honesty of purpose and expression, and his sympathetic understanding of human emotion, the spiritual influence of Rudyard Kipling continues. His own faith in the Hereafter is expressed in this poem: "When earth's last picture is painted, And the tubes are twisted and dried, When the oldest colors have faded. And the youngest critic has died, We shall rest, and, faith, we shall need it— Lie down for an Aeon or two, Till the Master of All Good Workmen Shall set us to work anew!" NOTES TO THE FIELD McGILL WARD ON HONOR ROLL THROUGH an oversight, which we deeply regret, the McGill Ward did not receive credit in our Magazine Drive Report. A telegram was sent from the Stake and this was filed and not put with the reports. We, therefore, publish the record of this Ward herewith. STAKE Nevada WARD McGill Enroll. 72 No. Sub. 76 % 106 Magazine Agent Loretta Baumgartner Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund Blackfoot Stake DURING the year 1935 so many wonderful achievements of the Stakes through their Bible Project were reported to the office, that it was necessary to summarize them and pay general tribute to all. However, the Project is still on the Bible, with a close correlation between that and the Teachers' Topic for this year, therefore we are happy to note again the lovely achievements in the field of our Project work. A pageant which was presented by the Blackfoot Stake Relief Society. The event was held during the latter part of last year, and was the feature of the yearly "Mother's Half Holiday." The costuming and stage setting were very artistic, and created a Biblical atmosphere. The happy event was under the immediate direction of the Stake President, Sister Mary S. Bills, and her co-workers. Appropriate music was arranged to accompany the scenes. The poems used during the presentation were taken from English classics and some of our own inspired L. D. S. Writers. Salt Lake Stake SOME of the very wonderful work undertaken and consummated by our Relief Society Stakes is a matter of constant joy to the General Board of Relief Society. Outstanding among the Stakes whose achievements are noteworthy is that of the Salt Lake Stake, where very careful planning insures a year of activity in which the fine blending of practical and formal educational work is in evidence. The book-binding project is so helpful that we take note of that. In outlining their project for Work and Business Day, January was chosen as the month in which to put this into effect. The thought was conceived of binding the Magazine, and this not only affords entertaining work, but is a most economical and valuable type of service. In the words of the Stake, "In book form the Magazine is twelve times more valuable than in twelve single copies." In this meeting the entire Stake Board participated, and each member bound a volume. In the Union Meeting the work was presented to the Ward Supervisors, who responded most thoroughly. With a little time and effort a volume can be assembled and covered at a cost of from ten to twenty-five cents, depending upon the choice of materials used for the cover. The most interesting thing about the project is that every Relief Society member, from the youngest to the oldest sister, enjoys the thrill of owning their own hand-bound volume. This project was so enthusiastically received that many volumes have been bound, not only of the Relief Society Magazine, but other useful periodicals which the organization and members desired to preserve. This event proved to be so successful that it has been made a part of the Annual Stake Projects. The materials used are: cord, flexible glue, tape, fly leaves, leatherette or oilcloth. The tools employed are: a home-made press, two slats two by nine inches, bodkin or darning needle, hammer, clothes pin, clamps. San Luis Stake THE San Luis Stake is one of our more remote stakes, and while there are many obstacles to encounter that are common to all of our stakes, the Relief Society forms a great part in the life of the sisters. The picture below is quite typical of Relief Society. It represents the Sanford Ward of the San Luis Stake, and included in the group are two elderly ladies, one ninety, the other eighty. These will be noted in striking contrast to the young mothers with their babies. This is an indication of the very general appeal of the Relief Society work. The experience and life of these older sisters is an inspiration and guide to the young, and the young find in Relief Society that which helps them to be better mothers and Latter-day Saints. Rigby Stake THE questions of Magazine subscriptions and Annual Dues are before the members of the Relief Society organization, and while the sisters all feel the great joy it is to contribute toward the maintenance of the general organization, they develop all sorts of ingenious schemes to insure the success of their work. The following scheme seems to be unusual and stimulating, and it may be of value to other Stakes in promoting their Magazine subscriptions and collecting Annual Dues. To quote from the Stake sending this in "In the search for the best methods to use in making a drive for our funds, one of the Stake Board members found a plate idea, suggested in a current magazine. From this suggestion the plans were developed." Paper plates were purchased by the Stake Board and designed as samples to be copied by the Wards. The paper plate was taken as a background and around the outside a series of circles were drawn. Above each circle was written the name of a holiday common to each month, in some cases two days in a month were suggested. The holidays were: New Year's, Lincoln's Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Valentine's, Relief Society Anniversary, Easter, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Twenty-fourth of July, Labor Day, Armistice, Halloween, My Own Birthday, in fact any days which make a special appeal to the individuals might be used. The following little verse was written in the center of each plate: At each holiday time Please place a dime Under the golden star. Stick them down fast, And when the year's past Turn in the plates, as they are. The plan involves placing a dime in each circle, and this is fastened by a gold sticker. The time of attaching the dime is in each case indicated by the name about the circle. The Stake Board was divided into two groups, one blue and the other gold. The leader of Work and Business was made captain of one group and the Magazine Agent captain of the other. The plan was presented to the Wards at Union Meeting day. Each Ward in turn appointed two captains and divided the Ward members into blue and gold groups. The Ward plates followed the sample supplied by the Stake. A luncheon was given by the Stake Board for all the Ward captains. The color scheme was in gold and blue, and was very attractive. Questions concerning the contest were discussed, and much interest was manifest in the beginning of the contest. At the end of the year all plates were to be turned in to the ward captains, who in turn would report to the stake captains. These constituted the judges of the contest. And the losers entertained the winning group. It is the feeling of this fine progressive Stake that when once the members of the Relief Society become familiar with the Relief Society Magazine in their homes, they will feel they can never afford to be without it. The contest furnishes material for entertainment, and is also instrumental in starting a good habit. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - - - - - - - - - President AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - - - - - - - - First Counselor KATE M. BARKER - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - - - - - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Elise B. Alder Inez K. Allen Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B. Knight Lalene H. Hart Lotta Paul Baxter Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Idazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Mary Connelly Kimball Assistant Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison VOL. XXIII MARCH, 1936 No. 3 EDITORIAL The Key Turned for Women WOMEN who have the freedom of the present day accorded to them without question can scarcely realize the conditions under which their sisters struggled at the time the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key for women. Not only were women of that time circumscribed and downtrodden, but a great many of them accepted their condition without protest. They could not be roused from their complacent lethargy and even protested when some of their number sought to throw off their shackles. Everywhere in the United States the English Common Law was in effect. It decreed: "By marriage, the husband and wife are one person in law, that is, the legal existence of the woman is merged in that of her husband. He is her baron or lord, bound to supply her with shelter, food, clothing and medicine, and is entitled to her earnings and the use and custody of her person, which he may seize wherever he may find it." In some states "married women, insane persons, and idots were ranked together as not fit to make a will." Politically the foreigner and drunkard were accorded the right to vote, while mothers, wives and sisters were refused it. A woman could not secure a divorce from a drunken husband. A drunkard could take his wife's clothing to pay his rum bills and the court declared it was legal because the wife belonged to her husband. If the wife secured a divorce on account of the infidelity of her husband, she had to forfeit all right to the property which they had jointly earned. The husband retained control of the estate. In 1852, the New York Herald, a leading paper of that time, in an editorial asked the question, "How did woman first become subject to man, as she now is all over the world?" and answered it by saying, "By her nature, her sex, just as the Negro is, and always will be to the end of time, inferior to the white race, and therefore, doomed to subjection; but she is happier than she would be in any other condition, just because it is the law of her nature." In 1876 when two women spoke in a church on temperance, an eminent clergyman declared that their appearance was "an indecency in the sight of Jehovah. He avowed that women were not allowed the right to speak in the church, and that it was positively base for a woman to speak in the pulpit." Even leaders of the reform movements of temperance and anti-slavery split regarding women's right to vote and serve on committees. A clergyman voiced the general sentiment when he said, "Wifehood is the crowning glory of a woman. In it she is bound for all time. To her husband she owes the duty of unqualified obedience. There is no crime which a man can commit which justifies his wife in leaving him or applying for that monstrous thing, divorce. * * * If he be a bad or wicked man, she may gently remonstrate with him, but refuse him, never." Little was said about women's political rights. The men were almost unanimously against them and women said little about them. Horace Bushnell, a preacher, in a book entitled, Woman Suffrage, the Reform Against Nature, pointing out the evils that would follow woman if she would secure the ballot, said, "The look will be sharp, the voice will be wiry and shrill, the action will be angular and abrupt; self-asserting boldness, eagerness for place and power will get into the expression more and more distinctly, and become inbred in the native habit." BY 1820 some improvement was noticed. Girls were beginning to enter public schools. Some institutions permitted girls to attend during the boys' summer vacation. In 1821 the Troy Female Seminary was opened, the first school in the United States to offer higher education to women. Oberlin College in 1833 admitted men and women on equal terms—the first institution to do this. In 1848 the passage of the Property Bill in New York allowed a married woman to hold real estate in her own name. Previous to this, all property which a woman owned at marriage, all that she might receive by gift or inheritance passed to her husband. He could sell it and dispose of it at her death. The rents and profits belonged to him. The passage of this law led thoughtful women to question why other unjust laws might not be repealed. From 1849 on, some outstanding women made heroic fights to break the shackles that had for centuries held women enslaved, but it was a long hard struggle. REALIZING conditions at this time, one can better appreciate what Joseph Smith did for women when he organized the Relief Society March 17, 1842. He accorded to women whole-hearted support in giving free vent to their God-implanted desires to serve. In speaking to the organization, he said, "It is natural for females to have feelings of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious. If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. * * * I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." His remarks and exhortations to the first Relief Society members show that he had a comprehension of woman's nature, her aspirations and possibilities far, far beyond the clergymen, newspaper writers and educators of the day. He instructed the members how to conduct their meetings according to parliamentary procedure. He urged them to work unitedly and support each other. His admonition is still vital—"Do not injure the character of any one. If members of the Society shall conduct themselves improperly, deal with them and keep all your doings within your own bosoms and hold all characters sacred." What a field he opened. He urged them to correct the morals and strengthen the virtues of the people, to seek out and relieve the distressed. He said every member should be ambitious to do good, that the members should deal frankly with each other, watch over the morals and be very careful of the character and reputation of the members of the institution, that they should have mercy upon one another and be pure in heart. WE see the fulfillment of his prophetic words, "knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." From 1842 until the present, women have steadily reached forward, growing in intelligence and power, accomplishing more and more in furthering civilization, ministering to the afflicted, upholding righteous causes and entering every field of endeavor. Many have marveled at the accomplishments of the organization. They have succeeded because they had "union of feeling" and so they obtained "power with God." We are proud of the achievements of the past. We look joyously forward to greater accomplishments in the future. Ninety-four years ago when the Prophet turned the key for women, well might they have joined angelic choirs in singing: "The morning breaks, the shadows flee. Lo, Zion's standard is unfurled, The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world." Leadership Week ANOTHER wonderful Leadership Week has passed into history. We extend heartfelt thanks to President Harris and the faculty associated with him for the joy and uplift, the openings of the windows of the soul to new vision, and the new avenues of endeavor it has opened to all who were privileged to attend. Those who were present will return to their wards and stakes to give the vision and information there obtained to those with whom they associate. Thus all the people will be benefited, for representatives came from Canada and as far south as Mexico. Every courtesy was extended to the Relief Society. We especially appreciate the fine cooperation and helpfulness of Brother Gerrit de Jong. Those in charge made it possible to have two sessions daily devoted to our work. We were greatly pleased with the attendance at these sessions and the interest shown by our officers. The pleasure of meeting relatives and friends from near and far, the joy that comes from getting a new thought or a new attitude were shown on the faces of those who attended day after day. President Harris started a movement when these Leadership Weeks were established for which he will ever be remembered. We expect them to continue as long as the institution which fathers them stands. The theme for this 1936 Week was most timely, "Promoting Spirituality Today," and in every section the speakers emphasized how spirituality may be increased. Again we extend our thanks for the hospitality, the kindliness, the scholarly lectures and all that made this Leadership Week so enjoyable. Modified Plan THE First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve Apostles have approved of a modified plan for the visiting of Stake Conferences. Hereafter one-half of all the Stake Conferences to be held on each Sunday will be visited by representatives of the General Board of the auxiliary organizations for the purpose of holding in connection with such Stake Conferences their annual convention-conferences. The remaining one-half of the Stake Conferences to be held each Sunday will be visited by the General Authorities of the Church. This plan will cut down traveling expenses of those living in the Stakes, as they will not be called to come to their Stake headquarters so frequently. For the present the Relief Society, the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association and the Young Woman's Mutual Improvement Association will hold their conventions in the last two quarters of the year. It is hoped by the Authorities that the plan will bring increased interest and larger attendance at all Stake Quarterly Conferences. We know that our officers of the Relief Society will cooperate to the fullest extent in making this plan successful. Relief Society Song WE are happy to announce a new song written for Relief Society is in course of preparation for April Conference. Sister Ruth May Fox, General President of the Y. W. M. I. A., has very graciously presented the following verses to our organization. Sister Fox has always been an active member of Relief Society, and ardently supports all its activities. We are indeed proud of her contribution. Words by Ruth May Fox On the bend of a winding river, In the temple-crowned city Nauvoo, Our sisterhood was established By a Prophet whose vision came true. "A new day is dawning, Ye Daughters, The horizon gleams golden and bright, You are called to the Master's service, Your robes, should be spotless and white." Chorus: O there on the bend of the river, Where the moonbeams dance on the stream; We received from the lips of the giver, The key which unfolded our dream. "Your light shall illumine the darkness, Your words like sweet music shall cheer The hearts of the lonely and needy Who'll rejoice your footsteps to hear. The spirit of Truth shall go with you, Affliction and doubt to efface, By gentleness, knowledge and beauty, And the love which comes from His grace." Pictures of Relief Society General Board Relief Society women will be pleased to learn that pictures of all of the general presidents of the Relief Society may now be had at Relief Society headquarters, 28 Bishop's Building. The complete list includes: EMMA SMITH ELIZA R. SNOW ZINA D. H. YOUNG BATHSHEBA W. SMITH EMMELINE B. WELLS CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS LOUISE Y. ROBISON The pictures are 4 1/4"x7 1/4" in size. The cost is one cent each, per dozen ten cents. At the price of one cent orders must be for at least ten pictures. If less than ten pictures are ordered, add 3 cents for mailing. Relief Society Presidents and Literary Class Leaders!!! The Texts which will constitute the Literary Course of Study for 1936-1937, are now available at the General Office— 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Class Leaders will do well to obtain these choice books and have the advantage of the vacation months for study. The following exceptional values are offered: At Post Office paid Julia Ward Howe........$1.85 $2.00 Alice Freeman Palmer 1.15 1.25 Abraham Lincoln........ .75 .90 $3.75 $4.15 Set of Three Books....$3.60 $4.00 L. D. S. Garments Our Specialty We carry a complete line in old and new styles. The following numbers will interest you. No. 1. New Style ribbed lgt. Wt. Combed cotton, an excellent Ladies' number..........$. 80 No. 2. Old Style. Ribbed lgt. Wt. Cotton, our standard garment.. 1.00 No. 3. Ribbed med. Wt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number. Men's new or old Style.......... 1.45 No. 4. Ribbed hvy. Wt. Unbleached cotton. Our double back Men's new or old Style.......... 1.50 No. 5. Light weight garment, Ladies' new Style................. 1.00 No. 6. Men's Balbriggan finish, an excellent summer number...... 1.25 No. 7. Ladies' Rayon in 4 grades, $.80, $1.00, $1.25............ 1.50 No. 8. Men's Rayon, in 2 grades, $1.25......................... 1.50 During Conference week we will mark the garments you buy of us free of charge, Make our store your headquarters. Nearest store in town to the Tabernacle and Temple. See our Virgin Wool Blankets, Men's Suits and Top-Coats, Ladies' Dresses and Suits. Factory to you. Keep this Magazine with our adv. For reference. Original Utah Woolen Mills 24 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah One-Half Block South of Tabernacle South Gate When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine From Canada to Arizona— L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS! Miss Nina Belle Tenney, Prescott, Arizona, enrolled here in June, 1935. Because of our individual methods of instruction, she was able to make very rapid progress, and is now secretary to the president of a large company in Arizona. Mr. F. B. Cooper, Cardston, Canada, specialized in accounting, in addition to the regular stenographic course. He now has an excellent position in a large company in Canada. He is enthusiastic about the training he received a leading business concern in Prescott. Here. The booklet, "Planning Your Future," will give you full information about the school. Write or call for a copy. LD. S. Business College Salt Lake City 70 North Main Street Wasatch 1812 You Get Double Value from your subscription to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, and other Church publications, when you preserve your magazines in permanently bound volumes. Send your back numbers to us now! During March We will return them to you postpaid, attractively and durably bound in cloth, stamped in gold. Relief Society Magazine $1.50 Improvement Era 2.00 Children's Friend 2.00 Instructor 1.50 per volume THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah "Pioneer Printers and Binders of the West" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine EASY TO OBTAIN When You Are Young. WILL PAY IN CASH TO a GREAT TO OWN John Doe A Dandy Savings Ac- $10,000.00 Ten Thousand Dollars count Always Available During Your Lifetime. AT MATURITY OF THIS POLICY WILL PAY TO THE ORDER OF on Be Jane Doe Beneficiary $10,000.00 Ten Thousand Dollars AT THE DEATH OF INSURED or $100.00 per month for Disability To Know That You Have Old Age—For Your Family's Future. Write For Particulars on our Proved Plan for a Definite Cash Estate. PREPARE NOW FOR BRIGHTER DAYS AHEAD. BENEFICIAL LIFE BENEFIARY, COMPANY JR., 1ST VICE-PRES. & DIR. DAVID O. MCKAY, 2ND VICE-PRES. & DIR. GEO. J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRES. & DIR. AXEL B. C. OHLSON, SECRETARY & DIRECTOR JOS. FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR E. T. RALPHS, DIRECTOR Made Provision for your — SALT LAKE City, UTAH STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR LEO E. PENROSE, ASST. SECRETARY VIRGIL H. SMITH, ASST. SECRETARY EARLE W. PIERCE, ASST. TREASURER EUGENE P. WATKINS, SUP. R. N. LOAN DEPT. WALDO M. ANDERSON, AGENCY SUPERVISOR DR. W. R. CALDERWOOD, MEDICAL DIRECTOR ASHBY D. BQYLE, ATTORNEY THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS From Factory To You—We Solicit Your Mail Orders New Style $.65 No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style $1.10 No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Rayon, Men's and Ladies' No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back $1.45 No. 88. Extra Fine Silk-Rayon Double Combed Yarn. Better Than Part Wool. This Comes Ladies' New Style Only $1.10 No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style, Double Back $1.50 Combed Yarn. Ladies' New Style Only $1.65 Short Sleeves, Ankle Length We Mark Garments For 10c We Charge 10% Extra For Extra Sizes. Please Specify When Ordering Your Bust, Waist and Length, Whether New or Old Style, and if Men's or Ladies'. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. THIS IS ALSO THE PLACE TO OUTFIT THE MISSIONARY WITH ONE OF THOSE FAMOUS RAMBOUILLETTE SUITS This is one of our Specials WE HAVE A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF HEAVY WORSTEDS AT Our Famous Ramboullette Serge. Extra Single or Double Breast. Pants, $4.00 Extra Pants, $4.00 WE ALWAYS GIVE SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO THE MISSIONARY 14 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH More than good products and helpful service... You get more than the best gasoline and oil —more than courteous, systematized service —at Pep 88 and Vico stations. You also get the satisfaction of knowing you are helping to advance the welfare of your own state and its institutions... For this company is an important factor in Utah's growth and progress. MOTOR OIL PEP 88 UTAH OIL REFINING COMPANY GASOLINE Hundreds of Service Stations and Dealers in Utah and Idaho Distributors of Atlas Tires, Batteries, Accessories... And Stanolind Products When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 88. Lt. Weight Men's and Ladies' No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' No. 86. Extra Fine Rayon and Double Combed Yarn, Men's and Ladies' No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles $. 85 Ladies' New Style $. 85 in Winter Weight Men's New Style $1.05 CRYSTAL PALACE Market 1st South at 3rd East—17th South at 5th East 1st South Temple at 2nd East We Are Proud to Serve the People of Utah with UTAH GROWN—UTAH PACKED FOOD PRODUCTS Service Above All SALT LAKE PROVO OGDEN PRICE PAYSON MANTI DESERET MORTUARY CO. When wholesale prices go down, we reduce our prices at once—we do not wait. When wholesale prices raise, we invariably buy heavily in advance and give our customers the saving. PIGGLY WIGGLY Efficient Service FOOD System STORES "A Surety of Purity" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints VOL. XXIII APRIL, 1936 No. 4 CONTENTS Easter...Bertha M. Rosevear 205 Teton Mountains—Frontispiece 206 The Challenge of Immortality...Dr. M. Lynn Bennion 207 Promise of Spring...Grace Zenor Pratt 210 I Wish You Could...Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy 210 Mrs. Benson Takes a Hand...Ivy Williams Stone 211 Gifted Children...Florence Ivins Hyde 216 Martha...Irene C. McCullough 219 The Little Things of Childhood...Caroline Eyring Miner 221 The Family Doctor...Drucilla Holmes McFarland 223 "And Some in Velvet Gowns"...Sibyl Spande Bowen 226 How Prayers are Answered...Nora A. Davis 229 Bulbs and Bloom in Holland 231 The Rainy Day Surprise Box...Virginia B. Jacobsen 234 The Littlest One...Olive Maiben Nicholes 236 What Are the Movies Likely to Do to My Child?...Eva K. Thomas 243 Happenings...Annie Wells Cannon 246 Asphalt Deposits Corroborate the Book of Mormon...E. Cannon Porter 247 The Complaining Teacher and the Homes That are Hard to Enter...Merling D. Clyde 250 Art at Eighty...Fay Ollerton 253 Calling Still...Elsie E. Barrett 255 Pussy Willows...C. Frank Steele 256 A Daily Storm...Eunice J. Gardner 258 Full Measure...Roxana F. Hase 259 Pine Ways...Linnie Fisher Robinson 261 Notes from the Field...Julia A. F. Lund 263 Notes to the Field 266 Laddie...Emma Rigby Coleman 267 Editorial 268 Arbor Day 268 A Benefactor 269 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Very likely you will entertain in your home VISITORS TO CONFERENCE Many of them will be interested in a Living Room Suite, a Norge Refrigerator, a Round Oak Range or a Dexter Washer at a new low price and a year to pay, with no carrying charge. EVERYTHING TO FURNISH THE HOME—BUY NOW AND SAVE GRANITE COMPANY 1050 East 21st South. Out of the high rent district. We deliver everywhere. NATURE'S MOST PERFECT FOOD AND ECONOMICAL TOO FOR HOME DELIVERY—PHONE ARDEN DAIRY PURE AT THE SOURCE L. D. S. TEMPLE GARMENTS SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE And sold at prices defying competition. When ordering from us remember we Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. FOR LADIES No. 708 Light Weight Ribbed $1.00 No. 735 Light Weight Cotton Ribbed $1.25 No. 703 Flat Weave Spring Needle $1.35 No. 750 Non-Run Rayon $1.50 No. 762 Non-Run Rayon $1.65 No. 792 Fine Quality Cotton Lisle $1.75 No. 734 Non-Run Rayon Super Quality $1.95 FOR MEN No. 608 Ribbed Summer Weight $1.00 No. 635 Ribbed Light Weight $1.25 No. 610 Light Weight Spring Needle $1.35 No. 602 Extra Fine Quality Lisle $1.50 No. 620 $1.65 No. 664 $1.75 No. 719 Ribbed Light Weight $1.00 No. 614 Medium Weight Extra Quality $1.50 No. 634 $1.65 Garments Marked Upon Request. 10c Per Pair Extra Prices Subject to Change Without Notice. 20% Extra Charge for Sizes Over 46. Do not fail to specify New or Old Style and if for Man or Woman. Also state if long or short sleeve, short or long legs are wanted. Give accurate Bust Measurements. Height and Weight. Samples Sent Upon Request. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah—OLDEST KNITTING STORE IN UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine FISHER'S Vitamin "D" BREADS Your Best Energy Foods Fisher's Vitamin "D" Breads— both White and Whole Wheat— provide energy food in abundance. Only in Fisher's Vitamin "D" breads do you get the extra Vitamin "D" all growing boys and girls need. Look for the name FISHER'S on every loaf. Baked by the AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY 100% home owned bakery Have newly-finished, colorful woodwork in your home this spring! BENNETT'S Gloss Interior Finish will transform the appearance of your walls and woodwork. It is a fine enamel-like paint in 16 beautiful shades and tints. Dries overnight to a hard, brilliant finish. At all Bennett Dealers, and BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. 61-65 West First South St. Salt Lake City Your Headquarters— The Deseret Book Company continues to be the official distributor for Relief Society books. The following books, which are the texts for the Literary Course of Study for 1936-37, are now available in this store: At Store Postpaid Julia Ward Howe $1.85 $2.00 Alice Freeman Palmer $1.15 $1.25 Abraham Lincoln $ .75 $ .90 Set of Three Books $3.60 $4.00 $3.75 $4.15 Add 2% Utah Sales Tax We are headquarters for all Church literature as well as for general books of all kinds. Come in and see us during Conference time. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Property Life Insurance Delight in Your Summer Study Intimate contact with great personalities on one of the loveliest of college campuses—this makes summer at Brigham Young University an exhilarating adventure. Here are some of the visiting professors who will augment the splendid regular faculty: DR. ADDIE M. CUSHING, Specialist in Child Growth and Development, and Parent Education. DR. J. O. ELLSWORTH, Chairman, Department of Agricultural Economics and Farm Management; Professor of Economics, Texas Technological College. EUGENE L. ROBERTS, Associate Professor of Physical Education, University of Southern California. DR. T. LYNN SMITH, Professor of Rural Sociology, Louisiana State University. J. CLIFTON MOFFITT, Principal, Provo High School. R. C. HEIDLOFF, Professor of Physical Education, University of Virginia. Among the brilliant lecturers who will appear: DR. EDWARD DAVISON, English Poet and Critic. DR. EDWIN D. STARBUCK, Professor of Philosophy and Psychology, and Director of Character Research, University of Southern California. A Full Quarter of Delightful Summer Study FIRST TERM: JUNE 15 TO JULY 24 ALPINE TERM: JULY 27 TO AUGUST 28 For Catalog, address Dean of Summer Session BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH You Get Double Value from your subscription to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, and other Church publications, when you preserve your magazines in permanently bound volumes. Send your back numbers to us now! During April We will return them to you postpaid, attractively and durably bound in cloth, stamped in gold. Relief Society Magazine $1.50 Improvement Era 2.00 Children's Friend 2.00 Instructor 1.50 per volume THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah "Pioneer Printers and Binders of the West" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Just turn the tap... And you'll get an immediate flow of hot water... At any moment of the day or night—when you have— Automatic GAS HOT WATER SERVICE No delays... No fires to build... No kettles to bother with. Gas water-heating service is entirely automatic. Gas offers the most economical automatic water heating service. Operating cost is surprisingly small. Cost of equipment, too, is remarkably low— and you can buy on liberal terms. Ask about our 60-day Free Trial offer MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY 36 South State Wasatch 1300 Serving 21 Utah Communities University of Utah SUMMER SESSION 1936 Send for a bulletin giving full particulars as to courses and credits, local and visiting faculty members, free daily lectures and other attractions. The President UNIVERSITY OF UTAH Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine EASTER By Bertha M. Rosevear Oh the joy of Spring! When the balmy breeze Whispers softly to the trees Awake, awake, put on your garments pink, and white Help make the earth a glorious sight When every little robin's throat Swells with rapturous stirring note And everywhere is seen The Easter lily Ah yes, 'twas in the Spring When nature, wakens from her Winter's sleep, And fragrant lilies bloom That Christ in majesty and power, Arose from out the tomb. 'Twas then that He whom men thought dead, Who was our ever living Head, Became Our Savior from the grave. Help us, oh God, to realize Thy love, and Thy great sacrifice. And as the birds return each year, When Easter lilies reappear We will remember The sacred joy of Spring. TETON MOUNTAINS The Relief Society Magazine VOL. XXIII APRIL, 1936 No. 4 The Challenge of Immortality Dr. M. Lynn Bennion EASTER DAY commemorates the resurrection of the Redeemer of mankind and certifies to the truths which He proclaimed while on earth and which He embodied in His life. The doubts and despair of Calvary were triumphantly dispelled when Jesus broke the bands of death and returned to His disciples in the fulness of personal life. Mary Magdalene and other faithful women received the joyful Easter message from the lips of an angel at the tomb. "Fear not ye: for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. He is not here: for He is risen, as He said. Come see the place where the Lord lay. And go quickly, and tell His disciples, that He is risen from the dead, and behold, He goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see Him: lo, I have told you." (Matt. 28:5-7) THE question of the resurrection is settled for the Latter-day Saints by the testimony of the scriptures, both ancient and modern. The doctrine of the resurrection is the very core and heart of our religion. Is this a reasonable faith which we cherish? If we postulate God, then it certainly is. Personal immortality is as sure as God Himself. The power of God is the fundamental argument for the truth of the resurrection of the dead. "God is not the God of the dead, but of the living." Socrates, several hundred years before Christ, said, "When death attacks a man, his mortal part dies, but his immortal part retreats before death, and goes away safe and indestructible." Another philosopher, Kant, indicated that belief in immortality was required in order to justify us to obey our consciences. MAN was created by a Being who has love as the foundation of His life. A life of love was beautifully exemplified in Jesus, who pled with all men to love God and man freely, and in so loving grow to be like God Himself. It is quite inconceivable that God would permit those who have been gaining such characters by the help of His spirit to die utterly. If righteous character is of value, we must suppose that that character will continue. Reason and memory shall continue, and the experiences of a future life shall grow out of and be built upon the experiences of the present life as a preparation. To think and love, remember and act, to be able to recognize friends and to enjoy beautiful things are among man's eternal blessings. The associations of the resurrected Lord among mortals confirms our faith in the reality of these things. THE doctrine of the resurrection exalts man as the offspring of God and the object of His most devoted love and affection. As the divine was manifested in the life of Christ, so in every man's life God may be revealed. The resurrection was a seal of divine approbation upon the life of Christ. His life is for us the exposition of God's way of living. The Savior brought life and immortality and light to the world, and to strive to live as He lived is our challenge today. It has been truthfully said that to be sure of immortality one must live like an immortal. When we are living as God has commanded us to live, our doubts vanish. Christ Himself suggested the pragmatic test to the doubter when He said, "If any man will do My will he shall know of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether I speak of Myself." It was the "come and see" invitation of the Savior that brought men invariably from darkness into light. We recall how the testimony of the risen Christ, bestowed upon the early apostles by the Holy Ghost, transformed their lives. They sought earnestly to bring their conduct in line with their faith, that they might be with their Master in eternal happiness. Traveling among the humble disciples of Jesus, the apostles observed the moral and spiritual power associated with true faith. "Every man who hath this hope in Him purifieth himself." THINK of the exalted faith of our Mormon pioneers who, out of the depths of suffering and privation, sang joyously, "And should we die before our journey's through, happy day, all is well." Human lives were lifted to new levels. Conscious that they were already living the immortal life, these folk sought passionately the things of the spirit. Moral uplift and spiritual power have ever been the consequence of that greatest faith that the human mind can hold—the faith that life may attain immortal quality and be assured of endless duration. I believe that a survey of the Church today would show that many of the saints derive from their faith in immortality that same incentive to live the higher life. It is not logic but a dynamic faith that most surely carries conviction. When the missionaries go out to win converts to the Church, a more potent force than their arguments is a challenge they offer: "Live here and now the life that deserves to live forever." Strange it is how the fear of death vanishes when people start facing the power of life. When life is lifted to the highest moral and spiritual levels the conviction of immortality is not difficult to obtain. This is indeed a great discovery. It means seeking God as a living quest. It means making the will of God the guide and inspiration of daily living. It invites a close and vital comradeship with him. Not as an abstract discovery or as a logical conclusion, but as a consequence of living a godly life does this testimony come. A fine old pioneer character is at the present time in a Brigham City hospital, waiting for the end to come. This man has a conviction of immortality born out of a life of devotion to the gospel. He said to his son-in-law a few days ago, "I am going to my exaltation." "When God wants to carry a point with His children," says one writer, "He plants His arguments in their instincts. This, it seems to me, is what Jesus recognized when He described the issue of immortality in that singularly simple but suggestive statement, "If it were not so, I would have told you." By this statement the Master sought to place our confidence in the persistence of personality, not upon some dogmatic utterance, but upon the deepest instinct of humanity, which instinct, in the last analysis, is for better than head knowledge. YOU cannot X-ray love, hate, envy and other emotions, nor locate them in the human anatomy, but there is nothing more real and powerful. The very best things in life we feel. The best testimony of God and man's divine relationship to Him is our own experience in the midst of living. God is always to be found through personal experience. Those who fail to recognize this truth and limit themselves to materiality are in my humble opinion missing the whole secret of life. I have many unanswered questions about the details of life after death, but I have no doubt of the reality of that after life. My desire is to have a quality of experience so rich and radiant, so full of meaning, that it will make each approaching year to the door of immortality more worthwhile. Easter invites us to "Life Eternal" through a knowledge of Jesus. Eternal life may become a present possession. It is for us, then, to cherish our faith in Christ and immortality, to fan the flame of it until it shall make our lives stronger and more beautiful. As the years pass we shall grow in courage, in buoyancy, in faith in ourselves, in life, in one another, in the world, and in God. We shall value human life for what it is, the highest and finest work of God, and we shall aspire to make that life a thing of beauty and of joy. He who was raised on Easter Day has given us this faith and this vision. He has assured us that we shall meet again after separation and shall enter into endless peace and progress. Thank God for this joyful message —this happy truth. PROMISE OF SPRING By Grace Zenor Pratt I watch the distant cottonwoods turn silvery green— The wheat fields like an emerald carpet spread; The glorious promise of another spring When winter has betokened all things, dead. The hyacinths along the garden wall Thrust up their waxen blossoms from the earth— Blue, rose and lavender and purest white;. A daffodil springs golden, from the turf. A wild rose now appears on swaying stem, The sky is blue with fairy floating clouds; An orchard, fragrant in its rosy mist, A field with upturned sod, but newly plowed.. So many springs beheld with wondering eyes, So. Many miracles of sun and shower. With each new promise, we behold anew— And faith returns in God's creative power. I WISH YOU COULD By Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy I wish you could see the sun on the hills, As he sets in the golden west; And the moon come up o'er a land at peace, And the eagles in their nest. Oh, the night is filled with the crickets chirp, And the call of the Whip-poor-will; As the spruce trees sing in the Autumn breeze, And rich scarlet is on the hill. Oh, I wish you could see that orange haze, As it rests on the mountain-peak; Or the snow-storm clouds, o'er the canyon there, As they play at hide and seek. EARTH'S RE-BIRTH By Emma Rigby Coleman Have you seen a fresh-plowed furrow In the spring? A teeming, steaming furrow In the spring? How it tells of resurrection! Of the earth's own genuflexion To man's hope, that's heaven sent, In the spring? Mrs. Benson Takes a Hand IN WHICH SHE ROUTS A RACKETEER By Ivy Williams Stone MRS. BENSON wakened at seven o'clock with a sense of guilt. Breakfast, lunches to pack, dishes, dinner; then, fully conscious, she sank back upon her pillows with a wry smile. Except for herself, the house was empty. The youngest Benson had married a month before, her husband, commonly called "Judge," had gone for a long-anticipated exploring trip on the Salmon River. There was no need for Mrs. Benson to rise early. No one needed breakfast, nor lunch, nor dinner in the evening. She was unnecessary. The life of the little town could continue to flow smoothly without her. And this knowledge was not pleasant. "At least," she said to the canary as she ate a solitary breakfast in the too quiet kitchen, "I can pack my grandfather's collection of firearms, and send it to the state museum. I've been going to do that for a long time. It will save me from boredom, or ennui, as the French say it." In the rear of the Benson house lot there stood an old adobe plastered building. Its squat, square shape was not improved by the two small deeply recessed windows, whose tiny panes of glass were covered by iron bars. The padlocked, weather beaten door finished the picture of an old pioneer jail, from which no criminal had ever escaped. In the early days this jail had been a necessity; gradually it became a curiosity, then an heirloom, now it was a valued town landmark. Grandfather Pace had been a very efficient and very thorough pioneer sheriff; he had equipped his jail with the comforts of a stove and a bed. He had boasted that many a confession had been prompted by a night's good rest on a real feather bed, reinforced by a tick of clean straw! A bronze tablet now marked the building, telling of Grandfather's exploits, and the state museum was clamoring for the collection of firearms which Grandfather Pace had gathered, mostly from his personal experiences. There was the muzzle loading, long barrel rifle he had brought from the backwoods of Kentucky; the slide gun repeating rifle, with the two nicks on the stock which had saved early settlers from a raid of murderous Indians; a single shot, smooth bore blunderbuss or horse pistol which Grandfather had laughingly described as the gun "that roared like a cannon and kicked like a mule;" there were numerous powder horns and bullet boxes; a bayoneted relic of the Civil War; a single barreled shotgun, and a double barreled muzzle loading shot gun that had kicked Grandmother backwards, the only time she had ever essayed to shoot a firearm; a cylinder revolver which had seemed the last word in gun manufacture which Grandfather had invented himself. And finally, a tiny "vest pocket," pearl handled pistol that seemed strangely out of place with its warlike neighbors. Mrs. Benson remembered that pearl handled pistol very well. Grandmother had always laughed over that firearm. Once when Grandfather had gone to town she had hoped he would bring her a present of a hanging lamp, but he purchased that tiny pistol instead! It was called "a suitable weapon for a refined lady;" she had never used it, but always carried it in her voluminous pocket to please Grandfather. THE packing of these relics of a by-gone age proved fascinating, and while she ate a hasty lunch Mrs. Benson felt tempted to ignore the insistent ring of the telephone. "That you, Mrs. Benson?" a tear choked voice almost cried into the receiver. "Well, this is Lettie Mack. And I'm in trouble. I bought a knitting machine, and the man made it go beautifully, but I can't seem to get the hang of fitting the wool on the hooks, and the yarn is all snarled up. Yes, I paid him cash for it, sixty dollars, and I am afraid—" "Where did you get the sixty dollars, Lettie?" Mrs. Benson was all business, alert and keen. "Well," the voice became less coherent, "I took the tax money and the money for Henry's second semester of tuition. He won't need it until January, and I figured I could make enough by selling my finished socks by that time to more than pay him back. And I can't—" "I'll be over," the receiver clicked, and immediately Mrs. Benson knew that she was again necessary. "I knew it," she muttered to the good little old car that speeded along under her urgent foot. "I knew Lettie couldn't be trusted. Here I got her all set up as a beautician, making good money too, and along comes some high powered salesman and fleeces her of all the money she has in the world. I'll bet she even told him she had sixty dollars, right there in the house, before he set the price on his machine." Mrs. Benson's anticipated fears were fully realized. Lettie Mack, crippled since babyhood, had built up a paying clientele of regular patrons with her beautician work. Her marcels never turned white hair yellow, and she was so careful not to burn fine hair. The Bensons had sent her to beauty school, and she and her orphan brother Henry were living nicely. Henry was even in school. Now, a suave, smooth-tongued salesman had departed to places unknown with Lettie's treasured sixty dollars, and left in its stead an intricate, hand-power knitting machine, with pages of puzzling instructions, ten balls of wool, and a beautifully engraved contract, signed by the agent, in which the Company agreed to purchase all the perfectly made socks which the purchaser could produce. "But I can't make a good one," sobbed Lettie, as Mrs. Benson scanned the contract, and knit her brows over the intricate hooks, levers and needles that were all a part of the machine. "And you never can either," small comfort came in Mrs. Benson's voice. "Nobody can make a perfect sock on this machine. That's the catch. And nobody can prosecute the swindlers for they agree to purchase all you can make. Such people are as bad as the old sharpsters who used to sell gold bricks. You bought a useless machine, Lettie, and the county could sell your little home for taxes, and your brother Henry can stay out of school for the rest of his life, and it will never disturb the sleep of those scalawags. Which way did that slick tongued salesman go?" "He asked me for a list of other likely purchasers, not too close, and I told him about your brother who runs the store at the other end of the valley. I told him to ask at that store for names. He was so polite and well mannered and said he didn't mind my crippled foot at all." "That," mused Mrs. Benson, "is the one bright, intelligent thing you have done, Lettie. I'll phone my brother." MRS. BENSON was puzzled how to capture and punish a racketeer of this type. He had done no tangible, unlawful act. She knew full well how her grandfather would have acted. There would have been no hesitancy or indecision. The undesirable visitor would have been taken to the state line on a rail, with a touch of tar and a few goose feathers for good measure. It was thinking of her grandfather that gave Mrs. Benson her great inspiration. A woman of fifty-five, clear brained, healthy, able to drive a car, with the blood of pioneering forbears in her veins must outwit a pale faced city bred imposter! Mrs. Benson packed the offending machine in its original box and took it home with her. She telephoned her brother. "Tell him," she emphasized, "that your sister is contemplating converting an unused building in the rear of her home into a knitting factory, to offer employment to the young women of the town. Tell him to come tomorrow afternoon. Certainly, Russel, I am contemplating such a factory. But it is not definite as yet." SEVEN o'clock the following morning found Mrs. Benson hard at work. Encouraged by a good wage, two women were busily helping her renovate the old jail building. The stove was thoroughly cleaned, blackened, and a supply of fuel filled the wood box. Even the rusty old reservoir had been scoured and filled with water. The table and two chairs were scrubbed, the undulating mirror lost its coat of fly specks and grime, the windows were polished, and the old bed was once more fluffed up and covered with clean linen. The floor was washed with a broom and scrubbed with lye. The odor of disinfectants sent all tiny insects elsewhere for safety. The firearms were packed in a substantial wooden box—all save the tiny pearl handled pistol which had never been discharged. A can of flour and a bread mixer were set on the warming oven. Mrs. Benson's last act was to put a new padlock through the clamp and hook on the outside of the old door. To the curious questions of her two helpers, she only smiled indulgently. "I'm making plans," she answered vaguely, "and it's best not to tell them 'till you're sure." That afternoon she extended a cheerful welcome to the young man who arrived with six knitting machines in the rear of his car. Certainly his polished manners were disarming. In spite of her resentment, even Mrs. Benson felt herself weakening before the onslaught of his courteous manner. But the memory of the swindled Lettie and the matted yarn on the hooks of the reboxed machine steeled her sympathies against his tactics. "Your telephone call was most opportune," gushed her visitor. "I was about to leave the valley. This is a marvelous idea of yours, Mrs. Benson! Think of the hope you can inspire in the hearts of these young women! By their own efforts, sponsored by your kindness, they can become self-supporting, self-respecting, beautifully clothed! To them, the depression will be non-existent!" "Come out to the little shop which I had rather thought might be used for the factory," invited Mrs. Benson, patting a little bump in the right hand pocket of her voluminous apron. "Perhaps you might suggest some improvements. I will want to reach maximum production and to make the most perfect socks." "What a charming, unique, atmospheric building!" exclaimed the young man. "It is positively enchanting. Another window here, a flood light from the ceiling, two tables where the bed stands, another to replace the washstand, a gas heater in the place of the stove, glass in the door,. And the room will be a modern factory! Dear Mrs. Benson, you can use more than six machines. Several more. Let me write up your order for twelve, at least." With quick deft movements, he produced more of the engraved contracts and a fountain pen, which he proffered to Mrs. Benson with a deep bow. He stooped to spread the papers on the table and when he rose up, he was looking squarely into the tiny muzzle of a small pearl handled pistol. "Walk over to the far wall," commanded Mrs. Benson. Her voice sounded strange even to herself. She felt the blood rushing to her head, but her hand was steady. "Put—put up your hands," she ordered, "and lean against the wall. This is truly loaded." Mrs. Benson backed to the door, never taking her eyes from the astonished, blanched face of the nonplussed, suave salesman. With an agility that belied her years she backed out of the door, pulled it shut behind her and snapped the new padlock. Then she sank weakly down on the deep recessed doorsill. "Let me out! Let me out! This is an outrage!" The debonaire prisoner pounded futilely upon the heavy door. Mrs. Benson walked around to a window and tapped sharply with the butt of the pearl handled pistol, motioning for the prisoner to raise the sash. "Can you make bread?" demanded Mrs. Benson with apparent levity. "Certainly not," snapped the prisoner, minus all his politeness, "and I would thank you to let me out immediately! My time is valuable." "I'll let you out when you have made me a perfect batch of bread," countered Mrs. Benson. "You'll find paper, matches, kindling, and coal in that box behind the stove. You'll find flour, salt, sugar, yeast and a good bread-mixer on top of the stove. Detailed instructions on how to make bread are pasted on top of that pretty sheet of paper you gave Lettie Mack, telling her how to operate a knitting machine. It's in the warming oven. I'll buy every loaf of perfect bread you can make. No imperfections, however. Just as your company won't accept socks with dropped stitches, nor broken threads, I won't accept bread that is soggy, burned, or underbaked." "No modern man is expected to understand culinary arts," countered the man on the inside of the solid old bars. "I couldn't perform such a feat in a thousand years." "And Lettie Mack couldn't learn to make a perfect pair of socks on your stupid machine in a thousand years, either," retaliated the lady on the outside of those old substantial bars. "It's too complicated. The wool won't travel through all those hooks and gadgets. The yarn snarls and breaks, and you know no hand operated machine could possibly compete with power operated ones." "She signed a legible contract. I gave it to her to read. She didn't have to sign, and if she is persistent and mechanically minded she can learn to operate it. I CAN OPERATE IT." "And I make bread," answered Mrs. Benson simply. "Been doing it for 27 years." "If you don't let me out, I'll have you sued for concealing firearms, and arrested for unlawfully retaining a person against his will, and for inducing me here on false pretenses." "The sheriff is my youngest brother, and the judge is my husband," smiled Mrs. Benson. "And you'll learn to make pretty good bread before Dad comes home from his river trip. I will compromise. That is, I'll let you go on your way unmolested provided you pass sixty dollars through these bars to me. Then I'll put your machine in your car with the six you already got there, and let you go. Provided the money doesn't look counterfeit," she added as an afterthought. "It was a legitimate sale," stormed the prisoner, all suavity gone from his voice. "You should make your fire first," counseled Mrs. Benson, "so as to have luke warm water for the bread. Cold water kills the yeast." The woman who had borne and reared six children, whose grandfather had never failed in his duty as protector of the peace of the community, looked unflinchingly into the eyes of the metropolitan youth who had felt the gullible people of the west were his legitimate prey. Slowly his hand moved upward to his inner coat pocket; slowly he extracted a wallet and pushed six ten dollar bills through the bars of the window. Mrs. Benson, never loosening her grip on the pearl mounted revolver, inspected the bills carefully; held each one to the light to locate the tiny silken threads that mark the genuine currency of our land. "Looks all right," she admitted grudgingly. "I'll put your machine back in your car. You bought it back you know. Then I'll start my own car, and I'll follow you to the state line; it's only thirty miles, and I'll enjoy the ride. It won't be healthy for you to try to sell any more machines in this state." THAT night Lettie Mack slept the peaceful sleep of a forgiven child. The six ten dollar bills were safely tucked in a small glass jar, which reposed inside a two quart jar, with the intervening space filled with small, innocent looking brown beans. Mrs. Benson, weary but elated, wrote to the state museum that she was retaining one small pearl handled pistol, as it had personal memories. As she stuck the stamp on her letter with a vigorous thrust, she muttered, "The words boredom and ennui should be stricken from the dictionary. There are no such words in my vocabulary!" Gifted Children By Florence Ivins Hyde SINCE Sir Francis Galton predicted, many years ago, that it would be possible someday to measure a man's intelligence, many of the world's finest minds have been at work on the study of mental testing. This study has grown to such an extent that the term "I. Q." is as familiar to the average housewife as the words "vitamin" and "endocrine." That there are vast differences in the intellectual endowments of individuals has been shown conclusively by psychological tests. They show that there are as many children far above this average as there are far below, and yet, very few are accelerated while many are retarded in school. The tremendous waste involved in re-teaching these retarded children has become a real problem, out of which grew the use of the intelligence tests in the schools. If it could be determined whether they fail because they are not capable or because of bad health or poor instruction, the problem could more easily be solved. The validity of the tests was demonstrated during the World War when the soldiers were observed to turn out in action just about as the tests predicted they would. It was so that "parents and teachers everywhere might have a true knowledge of the signs and symptoms of exceptional ability, and how children of this sort compare with average children" that Dr. Lewis M. Terman of Stanford University, in 1921, began his study of gifted children. If we believe that the nation's most precious assets are its intellectually gifted people, too much importance cannot be placed upon a survey of the type he made, for instead of guessing as we had done in the past, we now have the facts of his study of one thousand children to guide us. This study was a tremendous task, extending over four years. The published report covers 650 printed pages which had been condensed from an original of 100,000 typewritten pages. A still later volume contains the results of a re-test made ten years later. Both volumes make fascinating reading for anyone interested in the subject of gifted children. DR. TERMAN went into the schools of California—Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Oakland— where all types of children could be found. Only those were chosen who could pass a psychological test at or above 140. According to Dr. Leta S. Hollingsworth, 130 I. Q. is required to go through college with good grades. About one out of every two hundred in America reaches this standard. The study presents a certain amount of evidence that superior children come from families who are above average in height and weight, whose infant mortality is low, and the longevity of whose grandparents is above average. Among their ancestors there are fewer divorces than in the general population. An attempt was made to determine what relation exists between the children and their social groups. The groups were listed in the following manner: Professional Group Lawyers Physicians and Surgeons Engineers (with college degrees) Teachers Clergymen Writers Dentists Musicians Architects Inventors Commercial Group Executives and Managers Salesmen Insurance Agents Retail Dealers Clerical Workers Wholesale Workers Manufacturers Druggists Editors and Publishers Public Accountants Industrial Group Carpenters Mechanics Tailors Painters Contractors Barbers Florists Photographers Farmers Unskilled Laborers Public Service Group Postmen and Clerks City Firemen Army and Navy Soldiers Mayors, City Councilmen, and other City Officers Policemen Civil Service Clerks THIS data showed surprising and interesting results. The largest number of gifted children did not come from the professional group, as might be expected but from the commercial group which furnished 42.6% of the subjects. The Professional group furnished 29.1%, the Industrial group 20.2% and the Public Service Group only 4.5%. Children who test high in intellect appear to be more interested in abstract than in practical subjects, doing exceptional work in subjects which require "thought" but poor work, as a rule, in penmanship, sewing, games and sports. A marked characteristic among them is their sense of justice. They crave it above all other things, even kindness. Teachers never rated these children as high as the tests indicated they should be rated. Age was an important factor in the survey. It was observed that the youngest child carrying the work of his grade, usually passes the highest mental test of the group. Terman considers this his most important finding for it "indicates that it is not so much what a child can do as the age at which he can do it which indicates his intelligence." In testing their play interests it was found that these children have most interest in games that require thinking, and in their reading interests, that they read books of a far wider range than average children and many more books of information. ONE of the most interesting tests made was that made to determine the character and personality traits of brilliant children. Quoting Dr. Terman: "The gifted child of nine has reached a level of character development corresponding to that of the average child of 14 years"— an astounding fact, for after all, character development is the desirable thing in education. Girls appear to rate higher in these tests than boys but boys surpass them in the test of honesty. Between twelve and fourteen years of age, boys show a decided drop in moral development, indicating that at this age they need special sympathy and understanding from parents and teachers. Girls as a group do not show this drop. In every test made, except in a few mechanical tests, the gifted groups rated higher than the unselected groups. Of a large number of children selected by their teachers as having special ability in music, art, manual training and domestic art, only three possessed I. Q.'s high enough to qualify for the survey; and yet people with talent seem to get farther in the world than people of intellectual capacity. THIS new data gathered by Dr. Terman indicates that ability must be an original endowment for it appears in early childhood, and that with proper education and training many more eminent people might be developed. The $40,000 which the survey cost was fully justified for it substituted facts for the opinions of the past. For ten years longer annual reports of these children were kept, then a re-test was made to determine what changes, if any, had occurred. These adult boys surpassed girls on the tests at every age, and yet they dropped in their achievement scores. Girls average higher marks in all school courses. The gifted children were superior in social and moral traits just as they were in the original survey. Character problems were very few—5% among boys and 2% among girls. In the unselected group the proportion was twice as great. 38% of the boys and 47 % of the girls state that their lives have been greatly influenced by a person, book, philosophy, or religion. The type of influence most often mentioned is that of one or both parents. This fact has tremendous significance in determining the obligation of adults to the young. PROFESSOR TERMAN was not satisfied to study only the ultra bright children of the present but went back in history to try to discover the factors which contribute to eminence. Galton had long before concluded that "no man can achieve a very high reputation without being gifted with very high abilities and few who possess these abilities can fail to achieve eminence." To test this problem Terman used the available records of 301 of the most prominent men and women of history who lived between 1450 and 1850. The group includes scientists, artists, musicians, philosophers, poets, historians, soldiers, politicians, statesmen, etc. THIS survey could not possibly be so accurate in its results as that made of living children, but there did appear to be a correlation between the estimated I. Q. and the rank of eminence. In other words, those of greatest eminence showed the highest I. Q. Young philosophers rated higher than any other group, scoring above scientists and writers. Soldiers scored lowest. Artists were also low but were higher than soldiers. Available records indicate that in their youth these eminent people of history rated high in the desirable traits, particularly the intellectual traits. They possessed to an unusual degree forcefulness or strength of character and persistence of motive. It is to be regretted that intellectual endowment appears so early, for it complicates the problem of social adjustment. Brilliant children, as a rule, are not leaders in their groups because by being pushed ahead they are from one to two years younger than their school companions, are often small for their school rooms and as a result are not so active in school affairs. One great problem in the past has been that teachers and parents have failed to recognize ability in children and mistakes of training and discipline, as well as undesirable circumstances, have often starved or warped or killed the genius which might have developed. It seems almost imperative that we provide special classes to fit these children or to in some way enrich their curricula. It takes responsibility to bring out the best in anyone. Without it individuals cannot become creative. In some N. Y. Schools, the problem is being met with what are called Terman classes. 219 No one knows what might be de-developed with proper training. SURELY the hope of the world lies in the people of exceptional ability. Difficult problems are not and can never be solved by mediocre or even average minds. These gifted children may not become famous— eminence may not be an adequate measure of success, but with proper handling the gifted should be superior in adult life just as they are in childhood. They should become the leading physicians, teachers, business men, lawyers and scientists. The more of this stable group we can develop, the higher will be our social group generally. No more important problem confronts us as a nation or particularly as a church, for we try consistently to develop leadership. Martha By Irene C. McCullough MARTHA stood in the little stone doorway gazing out absently over the low rolling hills. The sun was lazily saying farewell to the world for another day and was pulling home the last few golden streamers that flitted in and out of the tiny valleys. "He seems tired, too," she mused. Martha was more tired than she cared to admit and also rather out of sorts. The day had been a long and strenuous one. The huge stone steps leading down to the flower invested arbor were immaculately clean. Two beautiful white pigeons were making love in the gnarled old olive tree. Several others were still arguing over a plentiful supply of bread crumbs Martha had thrown out to them a few moments ago. She glanced back into the kitchen. Everything there was spick and span, even the smooth boards on the floor shone like polished wood wherever they chanced to peep between the silky sheepskins. The brightly colored earthen vessels were setting proudly on the shelves and the copper and iron kettles were resting in their respective places, quite aware of the fact that the last rays of the setting sun were making their polished faces shine like silver and gold. The room did look enticing. Martha had the satisfaction of knowing that every nook and corner was painfully clean, but that did not seem to cheer her tonight.: "A clean hearth is the least of her 220 troubles," she said half aloud. "Tomorrow it will be the same, rush through her work, just half doing it so she can go and listen to him. I would like to go also but what kind of a house would we have if I rushed away too. The neighbors would soon cease to praise and follow our example as worthy housekeepers." Martha sat down on the wide old steps of the terrace. The sun had at last gone to rest, leaving the little village of Bethany to the evening shadows. The low rock houses with their flat roofs looked like small fortresses as they climbed to the top of the rolling hills. From here one could see the Mount of Olives which hid the city of Jerusalem from view. "That must be them now just coming over the top of the hill. Yes, I'm sure it is. Mary's hanging onto His arm as usual and drinking in every word He has to say as if it were the breath of life." Martha stopped, her last words startled her for a moment, but only for a moment, for the aroma of hot bread ready to be turned out made her hasten into the kitchen. The huge iron kettle hanging over the red coals needed stirring. It was steaming forth its savory story also. LEISURELY Mary and this man Jesus climbed up the steps to the wide open terrace where was set a dainty table all ready for the belated evening meal. Four places were made ready, for Martha loved Him very much and always had a place at the table for Him and a bed made ready for His coming. The two were so earnestly engaged RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in conversation that they did not notice Martha until she interrupted their serious interview with, "Lord, dost thou not care that my sister has left me to serve alone, clean the house and make ready for your coming?"" "Sister," exclaimed Mary, "pray let the house work wait for a short while. The days are few and far between that I can sit at the Master's feet and learn. I beg you be not angry, I will make amends as soon as he has to leave us again." Martha by now was too angry to heed the pleadings of her younger sister. Again she appealed to the Master. "Lord, bid her mend her ways and help me more." Jesus raised his sad eyes to Martha's angry face and said, 'Martha, Martha, thou art careful about many things but one thing is needful; and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her." The deepened flush faded from Martha's beautiful face and a look of tenderness gradually took its place. Jesus continued. "Man can not live by bread alone but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God." Night had settled over the little town of Bethany. A large white moon was trailing across the starlit dome. Under the gnarled old olive tree hung with spring blossoms sat this man Jesus, and kneeling at his feet were Mary, Martha and their brother Lazarus. Asking and receiving eternal truths. The food on the little stone table was still untouched. It had long ceased to send forth steaming, appetizing odors. The Little Things of Childhood By Caroline Eyring Miner MY childhood's happiness was measured out in little things. Was yours? I bless my mother who knew so much about children and their joy in little things. Perhaps, too, I should give thanks to poverty and a large family which made only simple things possible. I shall pick at random from my memories of childhood the bright spots polished with the joy of little things. And first will come birthdays—so simple their joy and yet still so bright and sparkling. On my birthday I was the queen of the day—mother saw to that. I could play to my heart's content without the responsibility of a single odd job to worry me. I was allowed also to make a batch of Boston Cream candy—so simple to make that no one needed to help me. Father always gave us nickels on our birthdays, one for each year of our age, and the mission of little nickels was never more happily fulfilled. CHRISTMAS was memorable in so many little ways. To me Christmas days were the pivots on which the years were fastened and they seemed to be eternities apart. Nevertheless when they did come they were worth all the waiting; all traditions of the day were so real to me that I have actually thought I heard Santa's sleigh bells and the hoof clicks of his reindeers even in the sunny Southwest many and many a Christmas night. Santa never saw fit to over-indulge us but the little things were loved just as much. The largest doll I ever had in my life was only eighteen inches long and had only a cloth body but it was none the less loved and cared for as well as any big doll could have been. The happiest Christmas I remember was the one on which we made even our Christmas tree. It was impossible to get any kind of an evergreen tree so we found an old leafless tree, put it in a can of rocks and tied bunches of mistletoe all over it and then decorated it with popcorn, red and green paper chains and cotton. It was really a beautiful Christmas tree. STORE candy" was a real treat to us. Mother used to drive the horse and buggy to a neighboring town ten miles away to shop about once a week. When we could expect her back in the evenings we would run for a mile to meet her to hang onto the back of the buggy and suck the long sticks of chocolate stick candy which she brought. No candy I have ever eaten since has remained in my memory as such a delicacy. WAS twelve years old when I saw my first picture show—and that was in these so-called movie days, for I am not old yet. We simply had no money for such things. But what a thrill that first show was! I had had the pleasure of anticipating it for months as it was the prize to be attained for perfect attendance at Primary for the summer months. Incidentally, it was difficult to keep up Primary attendance in our ward during the summer but not to get me to go, for it was one of my greatest pleasures. I don't recall all that this first show was about but among (bias other things there was an educational reel on fish hatcheries and I have ever since had a warm spot in my heart for the unromantic things. MY mother's happy smile and appreciative and endearing words at finding the house all cleaned up when she returned from Relief Society meeting or from some duty connected with her office of president of the Relief Society, were little things that filled my childhood with real joy. What did it matter that every loose thing had been tucked in the machine drawer out of sight or that innumerable out-of-place things crouched shamefully beneath the bed, when mother knew that the important things for her little girls were her smile and praise. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE BOOKS I received in childhood, Black Beauty, Heidi, The Little Shepherd of Kingdom Come, I still prize as my choicest possessions— little things that have: grown bigger with the years, HEY were little things, these brightly polished moments of my childhood and perhaps yours are also. I venture, too, that my children and yours will treasure and value the little, the simple things of their childhood. Like the boy who was given an extravagant plaything and spent the afternoon playing with the box and the string that it had come in, our children will pass over the artificial and complicated experiences, to polish and brighten, and relive the simple little Joys of childhood. HERE COMES APRIL B. M. R. Here comes lovely April, In her emerald gown, Trailing fleecy cloudlets From her diamond crown. Smiling through the raindrops, Coquetting with the hours, Coaxing out the little leaves For future shady bowers. Mother Nature, radiant, Sings a happy song, Wooing with warm breezes Flowers who've slept so long, Spilling gold on daffodils, Scattering choice perfume, Waking all the songbirds To join her merry tune. Lovely lady April, Tripping down the hill, Caresses all the pussies Growing by the rill. Then, with graceful curtsy To her sister May, Who has come to meet her, She hastens on her way. The Family Doctor By Drucilla Holmes McFarland ONCE upon a time a good queen sent her family physician into a humble cottage to bring back from the doors of death, a little child. She hoped to spare the anguished parents a heartache, to relieve the suffering of the babe, and to-save a soul for an earthly career. All this she accomplished, and more. As the story goes, the good queen, who telegraphed her family physician at London to make the long trip to the cottage on the Braemar Estate in North Scotland, was rewarded by seeing the little child of her beloved and long childless old servant, restored by the physician's constant attention until the crisis was past. An artist was inspired by the act, to paint for humankind a picture of that noble deed, a picture which has come down through the ages, touching with a finger of reverence, the hearts of countless thousands of people who see it, the world over. I first saw the picture when but a child. It was in the waiting room of our family doctor. I hardly knew the-value of art but the pathos there portrayed gripped me, as did something else which I could not then have named. Nearly half a million people surged and milled at the exposition grounds of the Century of Progress in Chicago. The traffic officers and fairground officials found themselves the victims of a situation beyond their power to control. On the carnival side of the grounds congestion was so dense that there was danger of a stampede on slight provocation and a steady call for ambulance and nurse service. We sought breathing space in another direction and so came to the Hall of Science, and there was disclosed the picture with its interpretation. Among those wonderful discoveries and inventions of genius to which man has conformed, a maze of medical research and accomplishment paid tribute to the doctor's profession, relative life and death, through its masters: Pasteur, Lister, Mayo Brothers, and others. On a side avenue, in a thatched cottage, we found the keynote—the heart throb of appreciation. It was a life-size, life-like replica of that famous painting by Sir Luke Fildes which was inspired by the good Queen. (This new art form of "Sculpticolor" was a part of the Petrologar exhibit.) We were invited to enter the cottage. Once within the portal, a curtained alcove suggested to us, "quiet." We tiptoed inside, then stopped in awe. The men in the party removed their hats. The ladies drew forth handkerchiefs and furtively wiped their eyes. Before us lived the characters of the picture. Dawn is breaking and sifting eerie light through the geraniums in the curtained window of a forester's humble home. The picture defines the figure of a woman prostrate across the wooden table. Her husband stands beside her, his face registering convulsive sobs barely under control, his hand outstretched to her shoulder. A little stronger light from an oil lamp across the room reveals the cause of their despair: a stricken child, lying upon pillows on two chairs. The rounded brow is fevered; fringed lashes arc over darkening eyes; a weakening pulse relaxes little hands lying so pathetically helpless. As the father instills into his suffering mate a little of his tender strength through 224 the hand upon her body, his eyes remain intent upon the Doctor, watching at the side of the child. The Doctor—Ah! There is the real light in the picture—not the oil lamp's fitful glow, not the dawn, but the hope to which the father clings by his trust in a fellowman. Now, see the intent solicitude of that good man. He realizes the potence of his position with the destiny of this bit of humanity in his hands. He feels the trust of the loving parents in his skill. He prays that God will be merciful to His medium. HE fair is over, with all its splendor, its education, its inspiration, leaving a memory of color and glorious lights, colossal accomplishments in science and industry interspersed with art and religion and the carnival element, and withal a great deal of respect for the splendid intelligences that have produced an almost unbelievable development in man's sphere during one century. Much of this panoramic film will fade. The significance of some will be lost entirely, as urgent material responsibilities again take possession of our minds. Much, however, is real gain. That part which we have taken time and trouble to absorb will be permanently rooted in our gardens of thought, there to develop the fruits of knowledge. We have profited most by those contacts which have stamped deeper, our earlier im- ' pressions. Just so, I find my mind reverting to that vivid portrait of "The Doctor," and I see that it has always been outlined on my mind, however faintly. The colors have deepened gradually and the features have become more and more distinct until now the imprint is complete. In our school day career, our picture was begun. You had out-dared all the following line of comrades RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE by sliding head first down the straw stack. But you won your laurels at high cost. Children do. You were awed and a little afraid of the big brusque Doctor when he came to set your fractured limb. How you trembled at his touch. He did hurt you and you cried, but when he had gone you wished him back again to ease your pain and to bolster courage with his presence. That was the first stroke of the brush that was to portray the hero. Time went on and he was nearly forgotten. The blurred canvas waited long for the artist's touch again. Finally, the most important event of life was at hand and your days were filled with fine aspirations for your coming child, and with resolutions to make of yourself a perfect pattern. Again you were afraid—this time of yourself: inexperienced, incapable; so you sought your family doctor, and he did not disappoint you. His own pleasure at a family reunion could not hold him against your imperative call. And when, after the travail through which he so patiently led you, he presented you with that symbol of your happiness, your first baby, was there not a hint of triumph in his tone as he said, "Well done, my girl, excellent indeed." AME a day of real need of all' your strength and stamina. The family Doctor was one of us throughout a seemingly endless night. Our vigil was his, and when our efforts were over, he pressed down those darkened lids and smoothed the lines around the fading mouth and moulded dimpled waxen fingers naturalistically above the silent form. And then he went out to you, broken and sobbing in your corner, and said, “Come and see her now, my dear. Look at the smile gathering to take the place of yesterday’s THE FAMILY DOCTOR suffering. She is at rest." And he led you out again. I loved him then, for doing for you, what none other had the power to do at that moment. And later, when your child had gone astray, in anguish of spirit you sought your family doctor. Remember his words? "Don't scold this child, my dear. Yours is the sin, not his. You are mature—you know the pitfalls of mortal life and you did not guard him well enough." Cruel words? No, after the first sear of censure, you were willing, even anxious to bear his blame. Your eyes were opened farther to your responsibility in parenthood. You would not make that mistake again. Tears fell because of the love in our hearts when we recognized in the Filde Masterpiece the characteristics of our own doctor. Was there also one of regret that this good old-fashioned type might be passing? The modern physician marches to the tune of progression in the uniform of the specialist. Life is changeable and fleeting but as long as the "human touch" endures, wholesome paintings will adorn its Memory Hall. Filde's "Family Doctor" is not extinct. You and I are as fortunate as Royalty in that the doctor's profession still gives untold opportunity for Christ-like service. Our pioneer doctors found it imperative to obey this impulse. Some of them are still here. They are deserving of a bouquet exhaling the fragrance of appreciation. My family doctor answered the call to service in the 80's when an accident—it was a fractured bone— showed him the crying need of professional skill in a new country. Intense suffering followed the clumsy first-aid of friends and a resulting crippled limb brought him to a decision to do his part to end the unnecessary torture and inadequate facilities encountered in the frontier towns. A true pioneer, he hewed to the line with little thought of self. It was the same determination that possessed the plucky rail-splitter who finally brought freedom to the entire colored race. IKE the Pony Express, the pioneer country doctor depended upon fast horses for transportation. Spirited animals were necessary for emergency calls into outlying districts. Deep mud, often to the hubs of his carriage, was encountered during the wet seasons of spring and autumn, as was heavy snow in winter. There were no improved highways then, no snow plows unless it were the farmer's steers or horses, driven from one farm-stead to another to trample down a trail. If the trip was too long to be made by team, an engine was chartered from the railroad yards and with the engineer, the fireman, and the doctor with his satchel aboard, it raced out alone to save a life. Once arrived at the nearest point of his destination, he was met with a sleigh or buggy and often a long cold ride was ahead. Finding need of an operation, the doctor must improvise a hospital, in which case all furniture was removed from the room to be used. That there might be no break in technique, he supervised the washing of walls and table with disinfectant and sterilized his own equipment. Frequently at night by oil lamp or candle light, he undertook the hazardous task, praying silently for Heavenly guidance of his hands. I know one of these white-haired "young" doctors, who has accompanied woman-kind down into the Valley of the Shadow of Death five 226 thousand and two-hundred times in the position of her champion. Utah, justly proud of her lovely children, might join in his praise, for if no other service were accredited him than his accomplishments in obstetrics, that would stand as a monument. Perhaps another can equal or even excel this record. Because your family physician does not advertise his score of maternity cases or his major operations, is no proof of his insignificance. Most truly great men do not hire press agents. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Busy with his calling, our hero has little time for meditation. Only you and I may see his reflection in life's fountain: on his countenance the strength of conquering and the benignity that comes from serving God, through fellowman; but though his deeds are unportrayed and his praises unsung, he is enthroned with reverence within our hearts. Such blood will supply the stream. That trends upward through another century of progress. "And Some in Velvet Gowns" By Sibyl Spande Bowen RS. SMITH is a devoted M garden worker. From early March until late October she spends several hours a day in her garden planting, digging, weeding, watering, culling and all the thousand odd duties it takes to produce a lovely garden. You can tell, even if you've never seen Mrs. Smith's backyard fairyland, that she is a real, dirt-digging, sun-loving gardener, because otherwise Mrs. Smith would never, never possess those broken, blackened fingernails, that deep red burn on the back of her neck that no beauty parlor operator can ever rid her of. Nor would she have that permanent sun-squint that has made a fine network of wrinkles about her eyes. And if Mrs. Smith was of the age or disposition to wear rolled hose, doubtless you might notice that her knees bear that pecular earth stain that never seems to disappear completely during the gardening season. Mrs. Smith will tell you laughingly if she catches you looking askance at those nails that she "just can't abide gloves'"' when she's working in the garden. She likes the feel of the warm earth on her bare hands, even if it does do queer things to her nails. Also, she usually works in an old, short-sleeved jersey dress. It never shows the dirt, you know. (But you know that too without the telling. Those arms have that peculiar, sunburned-potato hue that is more eloquent even than Mrs. Smith's explanation.) No, she seldom wears a hat. All her old dress hats are the small kind, and she doesn't like to buy one just for the garden. Later on she'll spend two or three times the price of a garden hat on creams and lotions trying to get rid of her ultra tan, but when one is fortyish sunburn is more easily acquired than lost. All in all, it seems a pity that Mrs. Smith should be the only discordant note in the loveliness of her flower garden. Summer gardens are full of Mrs. Smiths. Grotesque enough figures they are sometimes. An otherwise well-dressed lady spends hours digging in her garden attired in an old "AND SOME IN VELVET GOWNS" pink satin skirt and one of those things designed for boudoir wear we used to call a '"saque." Her entire garden isn't behind her house, either. Others appear in motley ensembles of old bedroom slippers (pompoms still attached), college son's old athletic sweater, the white letter looming large, and a topping of somebody's discarded golf cap. High fashion in head gear seems to be dad's old felt hat. It has at least a semblance of a brim, even if it does have a habit of perching high and lightly as a summer's cloud upon the feminine head. Garden dresses can be and are "just anything handy." The result of this hit and miss garbing is that the mistress of the garden quite frequently looks as though she were subbing for the family scarecrow. All of which is quite wrong. Gardening is an activity which occupies much time and costs considerable money for at least six months of the year. It is work that is done in semi-public, and in the full path of wind and sun. Gardeners should be sightly to the first and protected from the second if they are to continue to be classed as lovely ladies. Hence a special garden wardrobe is quite in the way of being a necessity, as well as a pleasure. First of all there should be a suitable dress. Some gardeners wear overalls, and some wear beach pajamas, but unless you are quite in the willowy class, skirts are better. A smock, just as gay or quiet as to color as you wish, is quite as useful to the gardener as it is to the artist. Not any kind of smock will do. It must be one that comes well up on the back of the neck and has sleeves to the wrist to protect white arms. A smock has the advantage that it can be slipped on over a housedress without loss of time for odd moments in the garden. Big patch pockets are convenient for stray packages of seed, and such. A garden hat is a prime necessity. A big hat that spreads over the back of the neck and casts ample shadows on that "v" in the front of the dress. Opening is the kind to have. The brim must be stiff enough not to flop, however, or the wearer will be at the mercy of every teasing breeze. Big hats can be so decorative, too. And then the gloves. There are gardeners who claim they simply cannot become used to working in gloves. They can, if they start with the softer, smaller kinds, and keep them on persistently through every kind of work. Low-heeled oxfords are best to wear in the garden. Your old high-heeled shoes may be perfectly comfortable, but they do just as much damage to your lawn as they would to a golf green, and they are never tolerated there. Bedroom slippers are out. Like the camel's pad, they do not sink into the sand and loam, but they are hard on the arches as well as unsightly out-of-doors. Cotton stockings do not snag on rose thorns as easily as do silk. Other garden accessories include a thick rubber sponge mat to kneel upon, a substantial basket to hold trowel, shears, seeds, and small tools, and for those with sensitive eyes, a pair of sun goggles. Simple things, these, but they make all the difference between gardening comfortably and attractively, and the absolute opposite. Go out into your garden dressed for the occasion and you will come through the season unweathered and unbegrimed, with no mark upon you but the added sparkle to your eyes and skin that fresh air and exercise can always give you. Photo by D. W. Green MEXICAN POPPY How Prayers Are Answered By Nora A. Davis NSTINCTIVELY we human ] beings turn to prayer because we can't help ourselves. Prayer being so natural we do not often analyze the process, but when we do, we can observe how securely it is based upon some of the laws of life and the universe. By careful consideration we can see that when we pray we unwittingly subject ourselves to a great principle, "There is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven before the world was upon which all blessings are predicated. And when we obtain any blessing from God it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. "This being" an unyielding law, it is evident that prayers are efficacious when they are in harmony with this controlling force, as all laws work under certain bounds and conditions; so as we proceed, let us treat some of these basic elements in their relationship to prayer. One of the mighty powers of this earth is the law of faith. It is fundamental in prayer, and is visible throughout all the handiwork of God; therefore, prayer to be answered must be vitalized by an abundance of faith in God's power, love, and wisdom. We must also believe that when we pray in the name of Jesus Christ we connect ourselves with another governing law of this earth. The greater our faith, the surer our prayers are to be answered, as the stronger our faith the better the laws of prayer function. Another basic law of prayer is humility. All nature submits to the divine will, so a praying person should say, "Thy will, not mine, be done." We reach out and harmonize ourselves with the great plan if we subject our personal desires to those of God's. When we insist on having our Own way, we cease to cooperate with divinity and get out of accord with the other forces for good in the universe. However, such determined prayers may sometimes be answered, but instead of bringing joy they often produce sorrow. A fundamental requisite in the law of prayer is obedience. We have been commanded to "pray always." If we faithfully pray we have that far kept the law, all the universe needs to obey or chaos and confusion would soon reign. So man is no exception if he wants his prayers answered, he too must obey. Among' the essential laws of prayer we find the law of action. Prayer is never a_ substitute for work, but a guide for it; consequently, the Lord can help us most by our helping ourselves under His divine influence. This is as it should be as nothing is static in nature; everything is struggling upwards under the directing influence of God and His powerful laws. So we would be insincere and out of harmony with the other laws of God, if we prayed for a thing and failed to make every honorable effort to get it. For after all, our real prayers are our actions. Only after we have done all in our power can we ask the Lord to use super-human agencies in our behalf. Gratitude is another one of these laws. For only the thankful person can appreciate or realize the full answer to his prayers. Ungrateful individuals cannot respond to the mercies of God, and get the spiritual joy out of the blessings they receive through their prayers. Observe the plant and animal world, how they express gratitude by responding nobly to the mercies of God. Then when we see man refuse to admit gratefully his blessings, we know to 230 a certain extent he is not really praying to God. How much happier we would be, and how much more beautiful and beneficial our prayers would be if we gave the Lord more praise and thanks instead of making our petitions just requests. When man prays he also employs the great law of free agency. Because there is good and evil in the world, man must choose continually between the two. When he prays he appeals to his better self and reserve power, and calls his spiritual nature to enlist in the cause of righteousness. While he prays to God, he also prays to his higher self. As no man dares ask the Lord for evil, the very act of praying is uplifting. Therefore, we may say prayers are answered if a man rises from his prayers a better man. The spiritual and moral benefits come to him, even though his specific request is denied. From the great, unseen world he receives the courage and strength he needs. WE observe that the prayers of the brethren holding the priesthood are more efficacious than ordinary prayers. Evidently the power they hold to act in the name of God makes it possible for them to employ more powerful and effective agencies, and because of this increased command of laws their prayers are more efficient. May it not be that that is the reason Enoch could command mountains to be removed and it was accomplished? It seems personal contact makes prayer more powerful. A notable example of this type of prayer is that of the woman who touched the Savior's robe in a crowd, and was instantly healed. This kind of prayer is advised by James as follows: "Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the Church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord; and the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up." Why does this prayer of personal contact make the elder's administration more influential? It could be that it closes the spiritual circuit between the sick and the elders so that a more potent law is enlisted in behalf of the afflicted one. Also the psychological effects could more logically follow. How can one question that family prayer in the home wields a mighty influence for good? A group sincerely praying together are blessed abundantly. It may be compared to lighting a furnace fire on a cold day. Before long by the law of radiation, the home is warm and cheery. So prayer in the home invites the mighty laws of God to warm, purify, and safeguard the members of that family. No home can well afford to fail in making these great benefits available. All our lives we have been taught to pray for the authorities of the Church and government. But even then sometimes we wonder what benefits our little prayers are to men so capable and well blessed already. At least, we feel our prayers keep us loyal, so we continue to pray for them. However, it is not our prayers alone, but the great accumulation of prayers of all the Church that sustains the authorities. The grand total of petitions mobilizes a spiritual army of laws to uphold, support, and strengthen them. We also pray for the missionaries while they are in the field, and they pray for themselves, and as a result, they almost always succeed in their labor. SUPPOSE we have all wondered how the Lord could hear the petitions of the two billion people of the world. Since the day of radio we can understand how He can actually hear our prayers, Himself or by His organization; but does He physically hear all the supplications of the world? Of course He hears and answers our prayers, but He does it in a Godly way. When we know more about the Supreme Being, the more convinced we will be that prayers are surely answered. It could be possible for God to hear and answer our supplications through His divine, mighty, and universal laws. He would know when we prayed to Him, and our prayers were answered by the functioning of His laws. Having a perfect knowledge of the laws of prayer He would be aware when they were obeyed, and by His consent the blessings predicated on the laws would come in answer. We may say in conclusion that when we obey the laws of prayer our prayers are answered. We obey the laws of health and we receive health; we obey the laws of education by our study and constant effort and we secure an education. Just so prayers are answered as a result of obedience, for they are invariably and wisely answered even if the answer is not always in the affirmative and immediate. Bulbs and Bloom in Holland Dear Mina, When I caught my first glimpse of a Dutch windmill and a thatched roof and bed of tulips from the train window, my mind went racing back to the days I spent with you in your grandmother's clean kitchen eating her good Dutch cookies and listening to her stories about this country. I almost felt guilty to be here while you who have always wanted to visit the land of your people were so far away. Do you remember the dramatic story, "The Black Tulip," we read, about a rare bulb that was worth thousands of guilders and was constantly disappearing in spite of the careful guarding of the grower who had supposedly produced it, and how excited we were over the mysteries and intrigues involved. Do you recall that your grandmother told us she was sure there never had been a truly black tulip, but that away back in the sixteenth century after tulip bulbs had been brought from Asia where they grew wild, and were cultivated in Europe, they became so popular among the aristocracy of some of the countries that they caused panics? I recall that she said men speculated in rare bulbs that didn't exist and that many people, as I recall some of your own ancestors, lost "houses and lands, diamonds and pearls, cows, horses and carriages," in exchange for "rare bulbs." Some of the bulbs may have been faked. But surely there must have been truly precious ones even in those days to produce the glorious blooms in Holland now. There are other beautiful flowers besides the tulip in these great beds of bloom that look like magic carpets stretched upon the earth. The colors range through all the tints and shades of blue, red, pink, lavender, purple, orange, gold, cream and white. I wish you could have gone with me to the fields at Haarlem, not far from the lovely city of Amsterdam, the Venice of the North where your grandmother used to live. You would have loved the ride out past the little Dutch village with children in wooden shoes playing hop-scotch in clean swept yards; past green meadows with cows and little flocks of sheep feeding peacefully along little winding streams with trees in clumps or rows, just bursting into leaf. You would have loved the wonderful breath of the hyacinths and narcissus that filled the air. You would have enjoyed walking along the little paths between the beds, stooping to examine the exquisite shapes of the lovely clusters or the individual blossoms as they swayed like bright butterflies on their long stalks. You would have liked, too, the information the genial bulb-farmer gave so graciously and would have responded to his genuine affection for his flowers. He talked of the beauties of some of his favorites as a fond mother talks of her children. Because you are so interested in flowers and are eager to add to your own beautiful bulb plots I'm going to relay some of the information I received. You may know much of it already, but you'll listen again. Because this comes from your beloved Holland. There are nearly 2,000 varieties of tulips in cultivation. If you are interested to become acquainted with them by name you may do so by procuring an 80 page booklet published by the Royal Horticultural Society of London. About 17,000 acres of land are devoted to the growth of bulbs and the annual amount received from exporting them is nearly 17 million dollars. Some varieties of tulips are very expensive, single beds are valued at thousands of dollars. Some of the most exquisite tulips that have been produced by the long careful work of bulb-growers are the Rembrandt with striped cups, reminding one of the painter's flower pieces; and the Darwin, lovely gold blossoms on long straight stalks. New varieties are produced by crossing old types, as you know, hybridizing. In this manner many new and startling blossoms have been produced. I saw tulips as large as hollyhocks and of colors from deep purple—almost black—through all shades of red, rose, orange, pink, cream, to snowy white; and some the most astonishing mixtures of colors. The grower told me that these Mendel tulips, as he calls the hybrids, are giving marvelous satisfaction to all tastes. You know, of course, that hyacinths are also grown from the bulb as well as from seed. I didn't know that the normal development of young hyacinth bulbs from the mother bulb takes so long—from five to six years—nor that to increase their quantity "cutting" is used—making incisions in the lower part of a large bulb, in which by careful treatment young bulbs grow to maturity in three or four years. They also hollow out the roots of a bulb and in the hollow left, young bulbs develop. I was informed that the development of young bulbs can be speeded by artificial heat. The parent bulbs are placed in heated storehouses where a proper temperature is kept. The bulbs grow better if the flowers are stripped off as soon as they appear. It seemed terrible to see great heaps of lovely blossoms lying in some fields. An interesting fact to me was that diseased hyacinths cannot be detected in sunlight. At intervals men go through the fields holding huge umbrellas to shade the beds from the sunshine in order to detect by the appearance of the leaves if a plant is diseased. Such plants are removed and destroyed. In this flower-land all the bulbs meant for sale are carefully inspected as soon as they are dried. A piece is cut off at the neck of the bulb under the root crown. The inspector can thus tell whether the bulb is healthy or diseased. Planting time for bulbs starts in September. They are placed in carefully manured soil. Here in Holland they never plant the same kind of bulb twice in the same land, but alternate hyacinths with tulips. The narcissus is also a favorite of the Holland flower grower. These plants have been repeatedly crossed also, so there are many novelties. I saw a wonderful flower show while I was in Holland where there were not only these ordinary bulb flowers, but lovely iris almost as beautiful as orchids, anemones—one of the most perfect bore your name, Wilhelmina, the name of the Holland princess, now her majesty the queen, for whom you were christened. It looked like a butterfly resting on a slender green stalk — I wished I might pick it and send it along in this letter. There were stately lilies and gorgeous peonies and amaryllis—forced of course for the exhibition, but making such a wonderful array of form and color and exhaling such perfume, that I felt I must have stepped into paradise. And how I wished, my dear, that you were there with me, doubling my happiness as sharing pleasures with loved ones always adds to the joy. My hotel is near your queen's royal palace. When I passed there yesterday I kissed my fingers toward it for you, but I said in my thoughts, "You may be a queen, your majesty, and sit on a gilded throne, but you can't be any sweeter or dearer or truer than your little namesake far across the seas who loves your lovely country though she has seen you both only in her dreams." Good night, my dear. Sometime you'll see it and enjoy it too. Neleh. The Rainy Day Surprise Box By Virginia B. Jacobsen "WHAT can we do, Mother?" sighed three young voices on a rainy morning. It was too stormy to play outside, but little hands and minds must be kept busy or they are apt to get into mischief. What could I give them to do? I was frequently confronted with the same question on rainy days, convalescent days and other stay-at-home days. In dismay, I looked around for an answer to this perplexing, yet oft recurring problem. The children had an abundance of toys—as witness the confusion in the living room. From beneath the davenport peeked a small, red-cheeked, china doll; under the table was a bright blue ball; a half dozen marbles lay scattered hither and yon; a whole fleet of small cars and trucks threatened pedestrian traffic from front door to back. I can hear some of you say, "Why let the children scatter their playthings all over the house?" If you live in as small a house as mine, where the only possible play room is dreary and dark on dull stay-indoor-days, you are forced as I am to permit the children to play in the family living rooms. What a blessing it would be if every home could have a big sunny room in the most cheerful corner of the house where the children could play without upsetting the rest of the family. As I looked in dismay at my erstwhile tidy living room, an idea came to me—why not a Rainy Day Surprise Box? It would serve three purposes: First it would help to keep this scattered array of underfoot impedimenta from messing up my otherwise clean home; it would answer the oft recurring question, "What can we do?"; but more important to me at the moment, it would take care of my present urgent need. Preparing the Rainy Day Surprise Box would keep three little minds and six little hands busy this inclement day. MARSHALLING my young forces together, we went to work. It took but a moment of tactful explanation to completely win their whole hearted support. While I hunted up a good stout box to hold numerous smaller boxes, the three engrossed children started a systematic search for scattered toys. Everything was brought into one room. Each child brought his personal drawer in which he kept his own playthings. Toys of every description were all brought to the clearinghouse for the big event. Each child was given a choice of a few things he could keep out to play with at any time. There was much choosing and rechoosing before little minds were made up. Of course, doll beds and other large pieces of doll furniture, tricycles, scooters and such things did not enter into the program. Just the multitude of small toys were to be put into the Rainy Day Surprise Box. Drawers, cupboards, and the neighborhood grocery yielded a goodly supply of small boxes of tin, wood, and cardboard, of various sizes and shapes. After everything was gathered together, each child was assigned a collecting job. Even the two year old baby took great delight in picking out all the marbles and dropping them in a small screw-top can. (I was careful to use only those tin cans which did not have sharp edges to cut little fingers.) Paper dolls, valentines and such things were put in manila envelopes and properly labelled. These were then all placed in a flat box together. The large fleet of automobiles and trucks were stored in a stout cardboard garage. A bevy of small dolls were tucked cosily in a cheery Christmas-box-bed by two loving little hands. Perhaps the most interesting of all would later prove to be the miscellaneous box. In this box were stored odds and ends which really had no relationship to each other. But each article was something which the children loved to play with occasionally. There were little bottles, an aspirin box (empty of course), a ring box, a horn, a set of jacks, a ball or two, several small mechanical toys, and a few things never meant for toys but which were liked for some unknown reason. After everything was stowed away in its particular container, all of the boxes were neatly packed in the large box. The large Rainy Day Surprise Box was then placed on a closet shelf with the definite understanding that only Mother or Daddy would open it to take out a smaller box. What a difference this clearance made in the looks of play-drawers, and floors. There was no longer a multitude of small toys to be scattered around and left when interest in them waned. Even the children remarked how good it was not to have so many things around to make a mess. THE Surprise Box was soon forgotten as other interests presented themselves. But the first rainy day brought a joyous remembrance of the boxful of toys put away for just such an occasion. Each child was given a choice of one box. Two year old Tim was thrilled once again with his fleet of little cars. Five year old Nancy later said she had never had so much fun playing with her little dolls, and the paper dolls brought a new joy to the heart of seven year old Sally. AS each child neatly replaced his toys in the Rainy Day Surprise Box for another rainy day, Sally said, "Mother, we don't mind wet days when we have something new to play with. These things were new to us because we haven't played with them for so long." Games, puzzles, sewing sets, hammer-nail sets, spelling boards, and modeling clay took on new interest when they were brought forth on a sick-a-bed-days and rainy days. And so our problem of "What can we do" was answered in this simple little plan of the Rainy Day Surprise Box. COMING By Lydia Hall Cold winds are blowing 'round my home, The sun's forgot to shine, There's still some snow upon the ground But hope and joy are mine. For robin redbreast came today And sang a song of cheer "Cheer up, cheer up," he said to me, "Springtime will soon be here." The Littlest One By Olive Maiben Nicholes LINDA TALLIFER looked searchingly at her own haggard reflection in the mottled depth of the old mirror. She had been awake since three o'clock, turning the idea over and over in her mind; but at last she had come to the one conclusion—the only reasonable way out. She had thought of it once or twice in a vague sort of way but that had been before she had known for sure. Now she knew as she should have known in the past four months—she who had been a mother ten times in twice as many years. If she had only been sure at first! How was she to know that a woman of forty-seven who hadn't borne a child for six years was to begin all over again. But now she knew and her knowledge would set her free! She crushed the shabby, brown hat down over her faded hair and gathered the black, cotton gloves into her shaking hand. Tom was still asleep; she had made sure of that. Poor, dear Tom! The decision strengthened within her as she looked at the pale lids closed over the sightless eyes. He had been so handsome and strong when he had courted her. She had waited each night at the crossing to wave at him when the Flier thundered through Brighton with Tom Tallifer at the throttle. They had married with every prospect bright for the future. The children had come along with the regularity of the seasons and life had been sweet and strong. Then the fearful wreck ten years ago when Tom had become the tragic victim of another's carelessness. To be sure, Donelly had paid with his life, but to Tom there had come no such swift respite. He had been doomed to a living death that seemed to intensify with the years. She carefully drew the shade as she slipped by him into the adjoining room where her two boys lay stretched out in the deep untroubled sleep of childhood. These two boys must have their chance—selling papers was no way out for them. She could hear the little girls talking quietly in the front room where the three of them shared the big couch together. She turned back and went out at the side gate and crossed behind the old round house. She was more than anxious to avoid Dan who would be coming home now from his work as nightwatch at the shops. Well, he wouldn't be there much longer. Helen would be ready to teach next month and together they would send him to Law School. SHE walked rapidly on with fresh determination until she reached the big elm beside the Doctor's gate. That Dr. McGan was "in" was borne out by his horse and carriage at the hitching post. The drowsy horse and mud-spattered wheels told her he had just returned from an all-night ride. She hesitated an instant, a little fearful to disturb him, but the insistent tapping beneath her heart forced her through the gate and up the path to the door. Old Jessica, who had been the Doctor's nurse and then his housekeeper, opened the door with a belligerent glint in her eye. "The Doctor's not for seein' ye this mornin'," she announced. "I won't be long," Linda murmured, twisting the cotton gloves; and trying not to break down before the austere gaze of the old woman. "Why, Linda! It's Dan Steven's girl, isn't it?" The doctor had heard her voice and had come in to the vestibule that opened out from his office. "I wanted to see you for a minute," she began apologetically, feeling all at once very tired and futile and heart-sick. He waved the stony-eyed Jessica aside and took Linda's hand and led her into the office. "Tom worse?" he asked kindly as he settled her gently in his great leather chair. She shook her head and looked at him tearfully. She had meant to be brave and commanding, to win him over by the sane logic of her request. But somehow she could not find words to begin. Her tongue seemed paralyzed, her brain numb, her voice dead. "In trouble, Linda?" he asked searching her tortured face for an answer. Then she seemed to find speech all at once and poured out the entire, unhappy story:—her plans for the children, poverty, hard work, and then the new baby's coming that spelled nothing but disaster to all her hopes. He must help her; he could if he would. She couldn't let this intruder ruin all their lives. He listened to her in silence, his heart torn between pity and despair. "I couldn't, Linda," he said huskily when she had finished. "Even if I had no fear of the law, I could never face Alice and the boy—over there. You must let me help you in some other way. Help your children to help themselves. You mustn't let Helen foist her ideas on Dan. You would let her make a poor lawyer out of a good mechanic. Have you really wondered why she wanted to stay on to school all summer after her graduation?" "Why, she needed another course to get into a high school position; it will pay better than the grades," she retorted. "Helen will never teach school, Linda; she is too busy planning her trousseau," he answered kindly. "How dare you say that?" she demanded, all "mother" at once. "You mustn't be hard on her, Linda; love is selfish as well as blind. She couldn't leave and come home last spring with Charlie Kennedy still so uncertain as to his matrimonial inclinations. It's a good match, Linda. He has ability—to make money. Helen has the brains to spend it." She was crying wildly now and he waited a moment before he pulled the little table between them and placed the tray of hot food, the repentant Jessica had left outside his door. "Come now," he demanded with his best operating-room voice. "Let's thrash this thing out. Here you've been planning your children's lives and ruining yours and Tom's. Do you ever realize you are giving them all you have and asking nothing in return?" "They will help me out when I'm old and done for," she bridled. "Every one of them will pay me back 'heaped up and running over.' If Helen doesn't now, she will. You just wait and see." He offered her the bowl of hot soup and bided his time. At last warmed by the good food and the gentle tones of his big voice, she began to relax and smile a little. "I guess I have spoiled her," she admitted. "Losing the first two made us so careful of her." "Too careful," he affirmed. "Parents often confuse their motives. But you can use your experience to advantage with the others. Let's count them." She leaned back against the cushions, tired, but at peace. "Dan's nineteen, with his job in the shops. Jeanne's seventeen, clerking in Gibbon's; Ben and Craige—selling papers. Irene and Chloe just turned eleven and eight—still in the grades, and little Beth—she begins next week." He tabulated their names, ages and occupations neatly. "Now for inclinations and ability," he said severely. "I couldn't bear to have Dan an engineer," she protested. "Pretty good mechanic," he reminded her. "This new automobile business might amount to something some day. If he ever takes a notion, don't squelch it." She twisted her soggy handkerchief about her calloused finger. "I'd like Ben to be a Doctor, though." "Good," he affirmed, and wrote, "Physician and Surgeon" beside "Benjamin Tallifer, age 15, newsboy." "Craige loves to read. I thought maybe he'd be an author," — she dared not look up until she heard his assent. "Might be a newspaper writer," he smiled as he wrote the word beside Craige's name. "We'll rig up a news stand; let him sell magazines as well as papers. Ben can come with me and go to high school. I need an office boy. If the treatment I'll give him 'takes', I'll help—mind you help—him into the medical college." "Jeanne loves art; she's like me,— though I've never had a chance. I was married young and the babies came along," she sighed. "I'd like her to be an artist." He wrote the word beside Jeanne's name, but added, "In her own home." "Irene can sing and Chloe loves to act. She's always saying pieces," she smiled, reminiscent of the home-dramatics on the back porch. "And Beth loves to dance. She's always dancing." "Well, we'll let the prima-donna, actress, danseuse grow up before we give them a rating. Meanwhile," he said, taking her rough hands between his big, sensitive fingers, "we must look out for the 'Littlest One'. You have no right, Linda, now you have called his body into being to send his spirit hurtling out into space. He, too, must have his chance. You won't go to someone else, will you? I trust you to put up a good fight. When Dan Stevens went into a burning building, he never looked back, Linda. He was a brave friend, and true. I'll never forget the day the warehouse burned down. He went up and came out fifteen times with a man or boy. Then someone shouted about Hegenson's dog. It was there in the window two stories up. He went up the ladder and tossed the dog down into the blanket and then the floor sank and he went down. Linda, you can't fail your father now. He'd grieve to know you were a quitter." "I'll stand by. But you must give up the long hours in the restaurant kitchen. You're a good cook, Linda, but you're a better mother. And Tom needs you, too. When Beth starts to school, he'll be alone unless you stay." "I promise," she whispered, as she passed out into the September sunshine. LINDA kept her word as best she could. Helen's letter, two days later, confirmed Dr. McGan's suspicions, so she smothered her heartache and wrote a happy letter and sent the paisley shawl and the bronze andirons that had been in the family for a century or more. She had meant to use the thirty dollars for some other purpose now Helen no longer needed it. But Dan had come in jubilantly that morning with the big news that Bert Jones was selling these new automobiles and wanted to start a shop in the City—a "garage" he called it—where they mended and repaired. Bert wanted Dan. He said he'd need twenty dollars to start on and some clothes. She gave him the money and he kissed her awkwardly and went away as happy as a prince. LINDA stayed on at home for weeks, the fifty dollars pension and Craige's and Jeanne's stray pennies helping to keep the home expenses up. She asked nothing of Ben. He lived at McGan's and saved his wages toward that rosy, medicated future he was so anxious to attain. Jeanne was taking art, although she had little to show for it. She went out a great deal with a boy from the shops—a good boy, Linda thought, but not quite good enough for her Jeanne. Irene's vocal lessons and Chloe's "elocution" came high, and now Beth wanted ballet slippers for the "Toddlers' Dancing Class." So it was that Linda went back to the cafe kitchen—for the night shift. She could be home by seven in the morning and help the girls and Craige off to school. Jeanne saw to their breakfasts and Linda and Tom ate alone. She read to him and filled his morning with the breezy gossip of the kitchen, slept and tidied up the house and left at six o'clock for work. She had meant to quit before Christmas, but the management had urged her with increased wages to stay on for the festivities and she, tempted with what the money could do for her children, had yielded. So it was that the tiny boy had come, gasping for breath through little, blue lips, two months before his time. A sleety morning, a frozen apple paring on the sidewalk had sent her headlong into the slushy gutter. She had managed to get home and to bed without help, and lay there alternately sweating and shivering until Tom had wakened and sensing a danger he could only feel had called Jeanne and Craige for help. Doctor McGan had shaken his head over the poor little mite, but Linda had set her Steven's mouth in a firm, hard line and fought for him day after day. All the bitterness of his coming was burned away in the intense fire of her love—and after weary weeks, love triumphed. The twisted knee called out all the skill and tenderness her hands and heart could give. She studied and read and asked for information. To the other children she gave scant attention, so it was with little opposition Jeanne married the boy from the shops and settled down in a home across the railroad tracks. She and Tom took Tommy for long walks. The father pushed the carriage with a new assurance in his step, Linda's hand resting lightly on the handle to give him direction. At last Tommy learned to walk and went hobbling off to school, his knee braced and stiff. Then Craige went away to College, and they planted a garden to help along. With one small hand clasped around his father's finger, Tommy guided the older Tom about the garden and amongst the flowers. The father was happy, and Linda coming out often to watch them working saw the old Tom revive and live again. WHEN the War roused the world to ominous activity. Ben—just ready for his internship—went to the training camps, and Craige went into the front line trenches with notebooks and pen. Jeanne and John and their three little boys went back to the farm, for crops were needed and the prices were high. Tommy saved his pennies for the soldiers; Irene and Chloe sang and read for the Red Cross and little Beth danced her way right into the soldiers' hearts. Then, before anyone was aware of the menacing scourge, the plague was upon them. Thousands went down in the holocaust. In training camp, in schools and homes the devastating sickness raged. Little Beth danced on, and then, the little dancing feet were stilled forever. The rest were somehow spared, and Tommy played through the long spring days, strangely untouched. Chloe found her soldier lover, and followed him to France, but the shrapnel that took his life, shattered her own, and Death rung down the curtain on the last act of her little drama: No word came from Craige. He had last been seen before an attack. She refused to hang a gold-starred flag in her window; she never gave him up as lost. At night she listened for his step on the walk, and a knock on the door brought her heart fluttering into her throat. Many a late delivery boy or hungry tramp wondered at the radiant face that looked out at them from the doorway. To Irene success came fluttering on butterfly wings. At last Linda's hopes seemed to be fulfilled. This child would fill her mother's aging years with comfort. But love, too, came singing, and before the golden voice had reached its destiny, Irene was married to the "first violin." LINDA told herself over and over again that everything would be all right. Even when the panic swept their meager savings away and Irene and Ivan came home for a year, she kept up her courage. There was no work for Ivan; "canned music" had crowded his kind out, and he was glad to work at anything. They found work at last, and she helped them on their way with her last ten dollars and her tenderest prayers. Life that had seemed to crawl suddenly found wings, and she was an old woman past seventy, and Tom was seventy-five. He suddenly seemed to shrivel within himself, to spend long hours dozing before the fire, to talk of earlier years, and his "sun" on the road. Younger men came into the offices. They had never known Tom Tallifer, and the pension was often a long time coming. Tommy was working in Gibbons and but for him there would not have been bread in the house. Jeanne sent crates of vegetables and fruits —there was no sale for them—and Tommy paid the postage. Sometimes Linda turned off a rug or two and bought small shoes at the sales to send to Jeanne's youngest children, for there was no money on the farm. ONE day Tom called to her, but before she had reached him, his sightless eyes had opened upon another world. Helen sent roses—she was going abroad and couldn't come. Dan drove down in his big, gray car. Business was bad and his wife was ill. Dan's wife had spent weeks at a time in the hospitals for everything under the sun. "Lucky Tommy's got a steady job. He'll be able to keep things going," he said, proffering a five-dollar bill. Linda accepted it, secretly planning to buy shoes and hose for Jeanne's youngest children. Jeanne could not come, but sent five-dollars "to help with expenses." Linda knew what sacrifices had gone into the worn bill. With wool and cattle down to "bed rock" and eggs and butter going for a song, it was worth ten times its face value to the struggling family in the country. Irene and Ivan sent regrets. A new baby was coming and they could not afford a trip. They wrote at length about Ivan's work—small pay at the Broadcasting Station but one could manage with no further expenses. Linda read the letter through hot tears. Well, she would never bother them, nor Helen and Dan neither. Jeanne's hands were already too full to carry any extra burdens. There were only Ben and Tommy left. Ben had remained in France doing wonderful things to distorted faces and broken bodies. By now he would be somewhere in Africa searching for the cause and remedy of the fever that was cutting down the Foreign Legion. It would be months before the news of his father's death would reach him. "But Tommy'll have his chance," she muttered fiercely to herself. "His painting is all he's got to take him along in the world." SHE was sitting alone before the little heater two days after the funeral. The canary hopped dejectedly from perch to swing. The flowers in the windows shrank away from the frosty glass. Icicles that fringed the roof glittered like steel in the waning light. "I'll sell the house to the railroad; they want ground back for a spur to the main line, and they'll be glad to give me eight hundred for the house. I'll give Tommy five and the other three will get me in at the 'Home'. I'll see Mrs. Finny about taking the canary. She'll be real kind to him. I guess they wouldn't want him at the 'Home'. Maybe I can take my ivy geranium and the white rose, but I'll let Sam Brown's Emmy have the rest. No doubt, she'll let 'em die or get aphids or run out; but I'll try to remember them as I saw them last." She heard a familiar, halting step on the porch and rose hastily to tie on her clean, white apron. She wouldn't let Tommy know. After he got away to the art school, she would pack her things and leave. She opened the door with one of her sunniest smiles. "I've watched out of the window for you, but missed you, somehow," she chided happily, unwinding the scarf from about his neck and ears. "Cold as Greenland!" he laughed, stamping his feet. "The reason you didn't see me, Mums, was that I came in our car." She blinked up at him, "Car? The cold's addled your brain, lad." He led her to the window. There in the shelter of the old round house, was a little green roadster. "Why, that's old Doctor McGan's," she protested. "Ours now. He says he wants to end his days riding round with his horse and buggy, so when he dozes, he won't end up in a ditch. Says he'll sell it to me on time." "Time?" she reiterated. "But, Tommy, your education, your painting. You forget you'll be leaving for the big city soon." "I'll be staying right here, my young lady," he laughed, struggling into the big apron he always wore when they got supper together. "Haven't told you of the promotion I've had either, nor of the night classes I've taken on the sly." He stood erect and beat his chest with a clenched fist, "I, Thomas Stevens Tallifer, Window Decorator for Gibbons & Gibbons, assistant floor manager and buyer in the arts goods department—all for 150 iron men per month." She gasped and sat down abruptly. "But, Tommy, your education, your painting?" "I'm at it every day," he answered, spreading butter on the crisp toast. "I've a studio in the top of the store —free heat, free light and free air. Out on the drive by the Park I've rented a bungalow for you. There's a patch of grass—under the snow at present—a flower garden and a place for my prize bunnies; besides a garage for our car and a bit of a place for your hens." "Does the Doctor know?" she demanded weakly. "I'll say he knows. In fact he's 'egged' me on for ten years or more. Poor old fellow, he's getting childish of late. Says the queerest things." "Childish? Queer?" She visualized the big white-haired man, alert and active at eighty. "Yes, ma'am—childish and queer. Why just tonight when he handed me the keys to the car he patted me on the back and said, 'Tommy, I knew you were going to be a good lad to your mother, I knew it for weeks before you were born'." HIS FAVORITE FLOWER In fairest Nauvoo there lived a sister, Who owned a garden of flowers rare. And in the days of our beloved prophet, His footsteps sometimes wandered there. His tender gaze on the flowers did linger, But brightened with love as he gazed at me. For of all the choicest of fair spring blossoms, I was his favorite one, you see. The moss rosebud is the humblest of roses, Hiding its head in a leafy bower Until, at God's bidding, its petals unfolding, We read of His love through the glad summer hours. A spray of asparagus next caught his fancy, To wave o'er my head seemed most dainty to him. And thus on his coat with love's fingers he placed me, To reign there, his choice, through the glad spring. So great was his love for the rose that, in music, His favorite song breathed warm words for me. For of all the sweet strains that gladden the heart, The Last Rose of Summer was his loved melody. And so from the East to fair Zion transplanted, To blossom in peace for the Saints that he loved. As flowers without number, in that beautiful garden, Are blooming for him in the heaven above. Note: —Lena B. Price. The facts of this story were given to me by Sister Sarah M. Kimball, owner of the garden in Nauvoo. She said she had a bush of pink moss roses, and near it some wild asparagus grew. Whenever the Prophet came there he would select a partly opened bud and a tiny spray of asparagus to put in the button hole in the lapel of his coat. What Are the Movies Likely to Do to My Child? By Eva K. Thomas IN a general way, most of us are aware that the motion picture is a boon to mankind. So vast and far-reaching are its possibilities for the instruction and entertainment of humanity that did it not exist, we should, if we possessed enough imagination, pray for its invention. Dr. John J. Tigert, former United States Commissioner of Education, declares: "For the purpose of making and influencing public opinion and thought, the motion picture in its present stage is the most powerful influence now known. And as its use increases and its field of operation develops, its power to influence the public will increase." A good motion picture that travels throughout the country, penetrating into the smallest town, represents a social force which may be described as nothing short of a Godsend. The history of the movie in education has scarcely begun. Though educational films have been made and are being made, the domain of the text book is still largely unimpaired, but its monopoly is disputed. DEAN HOLMES of the Harvard School of Education announced the discovery that where talking motion pictures supplement the text book in class, knowledge of the students increase from 20% to 40%. Children have been found to retain an average of 70% of what an adult would carry away from a dramatic film, and in many cases after a lapse of months, the children actually remember more than they remembered directly, after seeing the picture. Obviously the film must emerge as one of the most potent of all educational instruments. With facts and implications like these, it can surprise no one that the wealth of motion pictures poured out annually from the studios shown to an audience conservatively estimated at 77,000,000 weekly in the United States alone should produce effects upon the conduct, behavior patterns, morals, and even upon the health of the younger spectators, that is those in their formative years, since these youngsters make up a little more than one-third of our audiences. In a survey made by M. M. Willey and S. A. Rice and issued by a Hoover commission in 1933, we find this statement: "Although the motion picture is primarily an agency for amusement, it is no less important as an influence in shaping attitudes and social values. The fact that it is enjoyed as entertainment may even enhance its importance in this respect. Any discussion of this topic must start with the realization that for the vast audience the pictures and films have tremendous vitality. Pictures and actors are regarded with a seriousness that is likely to escape the casual observer." Editors of popular motion picture magazines are deluged with letters from motion picture patrons, unburdening themselves of an infinite variety of feelings and attitudes, deeply personal, which focus around the lives and activities of those inhabiting the screen world. One editor receives 80,000 such letters a year. These are filled with self revelations which indicate sometimes deliberately, more often unconsciously, the influence of the screen upon manners, dress, codes, and matters of romance. In other words here is evidence of the influence of motion pictures and their impersonations upon the character, conduct, and behavior of vast numbers of our nation and especially upon our younger people. SOME years ago the Motion Picture Research Council realized the vast influence of the motion picture and succeeded in interesting the Payne Fund—a foundation devoted to the welfare of youth, in financing a nationwide research into the degrees of influence and effect of films upon children and youth. A group of social scientists, psychologists, sociologists, and educators, representatives of their fields in various Universities of the country under the general direction of Dr. W. W. Charters began that body of research which covered a four year period from 1929-1933. So much of the general notion concerning the movies consisted in surmise or guess work that the need for carefully collected data unbiased and free from prejudice became virtually imperative. Who, for instance, has not heard the assumption that movies stimulate to crime, to sexual misconduct, to imitation of crime technique, of patterns of loose living, of vulgar conduct and so on. Upon the one hand we know that some excellent pictures have been made and are still being made and that pictures in general supply entertainment and knowledge to audiences not hitherto reached by dramatic presentation. Yet upon the other hand we have men of the standing of Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler asserting that "The daily broadcasting of the passions and caprices and adventures of men and women in plays and on the screen, interpreted by ill equipped authors and directors, cannot but be destructive of ideals that have proved to be wholesome and worthy of preservation." Or as Professor Ernest W. Burgess of the University of Chicago concludes, "It is quite evident that the boy comes into contact with influences in the motion pictures that are in conflict with the standard of the home, the school and the Church." Dr. Herbert Blumer of the University of Chicago who has conducted a series of studies for the Payne foundation, finds that "the movies have helped to direct 10% of the boys and 25% of the girls into delinquent or criminal careers." DRS. RENSHAW, MILLER AND MARQUIS have conducted a series of studies on the effect movies have on the sleep of our children. They concluded, "that children from the age of six on exposed to the flood of movies pouring across the screen, even just one a week, seeing film plays loaded chiefly with the well known movie trinity of love, sex, and crime, with all the violence, vulgarity, and false values that so many movies have, become so excited as to lose sleep for a week, or that the other child will be so drugged and exhausted by emotional fatigue, that his sleep will be a kind of stupor. Which ever of the two happens, the price we pay is exorbitant. Sleep plays a tremendous role in the growth and health of children." THE screen is the most open of all books and when the young see pictures presented in a certain way, it is small wonder that the vividness of the reception of those scenes, owing to the youth and freshness of the spectators, makes of the movies a peculiarly incisive and important factor in schemes of conduct. The less experience the spectators have the less selective they naturally are. Coming to the young, as pictures do in the most impressionable years of their life, the effect becomes of extraordinary weight and potentiality and amounts often to a shaping and moulding of their character. Could we but have an equal emphasis upon high ideals, how tremendous would be the beneficent effect upon our children. So far as concerns adults, they are their own masters, to choose as they wish. Children however, are another matter. They deserve to be imbued with the best ideals that civilization affords. KATHLEEN NORRIS says "That the movies have slipped too often into an ugly groove of dramatized crime and twisted sex isn't wholly surprising. The whole world has slipped that way. Books and plays reflect the same thing." "We can't put the responsibility for all of this, or indeed much of it, on the movies. They don't pretend to be churches. They are produced by business men with the purpose of making money. Their aim is to please everyone. An unsuccessful movie costs so much that every effort has to be made to avoid failures, and if the people demand sex and crime stories the Hollywood authorities quite naturally turn them out. The movie danger lies in their accessibility and the frequency with which we attend them. Children get their morals, their manners, their ideas of life and the world, politics and social responsibility from the irresistible silver screen. It seems to me in acknowledging this—and everyone who has studied the situation at all does acknowledge it—that we also admit that we have failed our children. It is not for Hollywood to educate them, to develop in them selectiveness and fineness and self-control. That is our business. It is for us to realize once and for all that movies are either helping or undoing what we are trying to put into the souls and minds of our children, and 245 to see to it that the malleable little spirits and intellects are not poisoned."' "Who can object to the drive for clean pictures?" demands Samuel Goldwyn, one of our noted producers. "If motion picture production digresses, if sight is lost of the family as an audience, there seems to be reason for complaint." "Good taste must determine what is funny in a smoking room and what is funny on the screen. I don't know what rules and what codes can be drawn up to express it, and I don't know who could interpret them." "Only one restriction can ever exist. That is the sound economy of picture production for the family. It must be realized that the photoplay enters the home in its thought, its mood, its manner, its story, a realization that it must be fit for the home is the practical basis for the censorship of any picture." A EUROPEAN proverb has it that from the same timber may be hewn either a cross or a shovel. It is the use of a great invention that determines its service to us. The motion pictures, though at times misused, have also at times shown by certain specimens and examples how immense can be their service for wholesome pleasure, entertainment, and even enlightenment, to their vast audiences. Since the motion picture has assuredly come to stay, the points upon which everyone of us, whether as parent or as citizen, urgently desires information are, What are the movies likely to do to my child? How are they likely to affect the children and young people of our country, the parents and citizens of the future? What influence will they impart to our homes? Are they in their present forms an asset or a liability to the progress of our national development? Happenings By Anne Wells Cannon HOPE, and faith, and joy abound, as smiling, tearful April awakens earth from her winter sleep. KATHARINE CORNELL, titled "leading lady" of the American stage, has added another laurel to her fame in her latest achievement, "Saint Joan." LILY PONS, French opera star, has decided to make America her permanent home. She recently went back to Paris to collect her furniture, art treasures and pictures and close up her French abode. KATHARINE HEPBURN'S new film, "Mary of Scotland" calls for twelve changes of costume, all heavily embroidered. SONJA HENIE, of Norway, led 16 rivals from 9 nations through the compulsory figures at the Olympic games in Germany last winter. She is now the world's champion woman skater. ROSALIE LOWE WHITNEY has been appointed, by Mayor LaGuardia of New York, justice of the Court of Domestic Relations, and Dorothy Kenyon, Commissioner of Licenses.. LAURA KNIGHT, English artist, is the first woman in the British Empire to be accorded full membership in the Royal Academy. RS. WILBUR FRIBLEY, president of the Housewives League of America, flays J. P. Morgan for his definition of the leisure class as "families who afford a maid" as did also Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt. Both declare Mr. Morgan out-of-date and far behind the times of modern "household engineering." D*: MILLICENT L. HATHAWAY of the University of Illinois medical school has developed a new form of Vitamin D, the bone growth control factor in nature. MB:: J. A. EUALES and Mrs. George P. Brown of Bloomington, Ill., exchanged courtesies on their birthday celebrations, February 10, and March 30, respectively. Each was 101 years old. D?: JANE HUNTLEY BUCHANAN of Ogden, practicing physician in the intermountain west for 52 years, died last month at the advanced age of 85. CLARE LEIGHTON'S book "Four Hedges" is an artistic story of the making of a garden. With the advent of spring, garden lovers will find both pleasure and help in its perusal. ELEANOR FARJEON has written a biography of her father's family. The author is a granddaughter of the famous actor Joseph Jefferson. KATHLEEN NORRIS' new book, "Secret. Marriage" contains a wholesome lesson for the young romantics. How many will read and heed is a question. MARGARET LAWRENCE'S tv" book, "The School of Femininity is like a friendly afternoon with great literary women, from Jane Austin to Dorothy Parker. PHYLLIS BENTLEY'S "Freedom Farewell," Elizabeth Bowen's "House of Paris,'' Helen Ashton's "Dust Over the Ruins,' are among the notable recent books. Asphalt Deposits Corroborate The Book of Mormon By E. Cannon Porter FROM the La Brea tar pits, Los Angeles, comes mute evidence of the truth of items mentioned in the Book of Mormon. In the latter is a description of horses used by the Nephites and Lamanites in America. Historians have claimed that there were no horses in North America when the Spaniards first came. The Indians were amazed at the sixteen horses brought to Mexico by Cortez. They at first thought that the equine and his rider were one animal like a centaur. They cut off the head of a horse and examined it with a great deal of curiosity. The bubbling asphalt pits, estimated to be from 20,000 to 100,000 years old have yielded the skeletons of horses, showing that the animal originally lived in America. These same silent witnesses would incline to the Latter-day Saint contention that the Garden of Eden was located on the American continent— near Independence, Missouri. Skeletons of elephants and camels are here, larger, and apparently older than these same species of Asia. It has been generally thought that life came from Siberia to Alaska via a northwest passage. The mute tar pits would indicate that it was the other way around. Their sticky contents have preserved the bones through the ages, although all flesh, fur, hair, feathers and beaks have been destroyed. Besides the animals already mentioned, there are remains of such strange creatures as the giant ground sloth, the saber tooth tiger and an immense extinct bird with a nine foot spread of wings. To say nothing of pre-historic bison, bear, wolves, deer, and foxes that closely resemble the present form of these animals. It is believed that thirsty animals went there to drink, the oil deposits probably keeping water on the surface, when the surrounding country was dry. These were trapped in the sticky mass. The more they struggled the deeper they sank. Carnivorous animals attracted by the scent of easy prey pounced upon the struggling victims and were themselves sucked into the lakes of tar. These pits are located in Hancock park, a 28% acre tract presented by the owner, Col. G. Allen Hancock, to Los Angeles. Here is the old La Brea ranch house built by the original settlers. Eventually a museum is to be erected on the ground to house the reconstructed skeletons of these pre-historic monsters. Many of these now make an impressive display at the Los Angeles County Building at Exposition Park. One of these is the Imperial elephant with its enormous tusks and a baby elephant with a broken leg. Bones from the pits have been shipped to various museums throughout the world. They offer interesting information of life in the earth's ice era. The pools themselves are small oval depressions fenced with flat shale-like stone brought from Calabases. None of them are very deep, varying from six to thirty-five feet. From the last the skeletons of fifteen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FOSSIL HALL, LOS ANGELES MUSEUM elephants and ten mastodons were taken. From the fact that much wood was mixed up with the bones, it would indicate that the country was heavily timbered at that time. From the first came the only human skull—probably that of a lost Indian. Stone artifacts and the bones of numerous small animals similar to what we have now, would indicate that it was of much later date. No human life is indicated at the time of the pre-historic monsters. NE of the largest collections of extinct mammals found at Rancho La Brea was excavated from pits 61-67 fused into a single lake. Much of the material was well preserved. In 61 asphalt pockets varied in size from one to ten cubic yards. Greatest depth reached was about twenty feet. About 250 skulls were obtained: mostly dire wolf and saber-toothed cat. Associated types included coyote, great lion-like cat, horse, deer, large grazing ground sloth and smaller browsing ground sloth. 271 well preserved skulls were taken from pit 67. These included most of the types listed above, as well as bison. In both pits remains of young camels were of frequent occurrence. Work at these sites was carried on by the L. A. Museum from Sept. 17, 1914, to June 21, 1915, Years ago the asphalt was being shipped to San Francisco for commercial purposes. When being compressed, the bones were removed as being unusable. When viewed by Dr. Merriam of the University of California at Berkeley he recognized them as being of inestimable scientific value. When scooped up out of the sticky mass the bones of many different animals are mixed up together. These are sorted and complete skeletons are assembled from them. Given a bony framework, an anatomist can tell just how an animal looked when alive. T the Los Angeles Museum in Exposition park, there is a hall devoted to these reconstructed creatures. The ancient horse and buffalo had heads larger than those now living. The lion is bigger and more powerful than the African variety ASPHALT DEPOSITS CORROBORATE today. As is also the dire wolf of the Neanderthal. Foxes, rabbits and antelope are similar to those of the present. Here in a glass case is the lone man's skull, preserved in the tar when those of his compatriots have long since returned to dust. Most interesting are the extinct giant and smaller ground sloth, believed to have come from South America; and the Saber toothed tiger which gained its sustenance by sinking its long tusk into the neck of its victim, and sucking its blood. Out in the park where the pits are a group of statuary has been built of cement by F. E. R. A. Workers. It shows the figure of a buffalo lying on its side in the asphalt. A saber toothed tiger is devouring it. Nearby the tiger's mate is fighting a giant ground sloth that has come to the pits to drink. This is the first of many animal groups designed to show life as it 249 existed there 50,000 years ago. One of the sculptures contemplated is a majestic group of Imperial elephants. Trees now grow in Hancock Park and the newer pools are fringed with cat-tails showing the presence of water near the surface. Here constantly the age old tragedy of the pits is re-enacted. Small rodents" and birds, seeking water, are sucked into the treacherous depths. A circus that put up its tents nearby had an elephant get down in the miry ground. By attaching chains to it and several of the other pachyderms, they finally succeeded in pulling it out. Three small boys had to be rescued from a swamp in a nearby field by the fire department. Another pool is now being dragged for the body of a young girl, who, suffering from a nervous breakdown, got lost in that vicinity. Children and commercial enterprises are barred from the park. SPRING By Grace Peterson To-day, I heard spring on the way, The lark carroling at break of day. To-day I felt spring in the air, The kiss of soft rain on my hair. To-day I saw a bit of spring, A crocus, and a blue-bird on wing. To-day I touched spring all around. I planted seed in soft warm ground. To-day I know that spring has come, For new buds quivered in the sun. The Complaining Teacher and the Homes That Are Hard to Enter By Merling D. Clyde Mrs. Tyler (over the telephone): 'Yes, Oh, she won't be able to go? That is too bad. I can go alone if you wish. Oh, you are substituting Sister Horton. She is a dear. (Looks from the window.) I can see her coming now. I'll hurry and meet her. Yes, thank you. Goodbye." (Puts on wraps. Exits.) Home. A little white-faced, busy mother answers a knock at the door. Admits two teachers. "Come in, sisters. (Shakes hands.) What a nice surprise, Sister Horton, to see you. How are you Sister Tyler. Find seats if you can. (Has to move little clothing from chairs.) I must apologize for the way this place looks. Five children having measles at one time rather upsets a home. But they are back in school now." Mrs. Tyler (taking a seat gingerly on the edge of a chair): "Oh, we didn't come to see your house. (Looks around critically.) It's such a dirty time anyway. Was just telling Rob this morning I have to clean my windows twice a week, I get so nervous with things in a mess." Mrs. Horton: "Did you say your children were all down at once. I'm so sor—" Mrs. T.: "Yes, she's surely had a time. We haven't had them yet, and I do hope we don't get them, either. I always scrub the children before they enter the house to get the germs off. Rob says I'm too fussy. I was coming over to help Sister Clark here, but seems like I never get through." Mother: "That was sweet of you to think of us. But you know how good John is to help. I'll have to tell you a joke on him. He wanted to bathe the boys last night. I heard the twins giggling away in bed. And what do you think, those little tykes had let him bathe the same one twice." (All laugh.) Mother, continuing: "But we did get along fine. The elders came in each day and we were all blessed. And how are you, dear Sister Horton?" Mrs. H.: "I have been exceptionally well, thanks to my Heavenly Father." Mrs. T.: "It seems so good to hear someone say they are well. You know, I suffer so all the time. And I've just received a letter from my son, and they are out of work. I just don't know how I'll ever wait on them if they come home to live. It disrupts a home so." Mrs. H.: "One has to make the best of each trial that comes, Sister Tyler. It is said in the Good Book 'In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity consider: God also hath set one over against the other that man should find nothing after him.' (Turns to mother.) I'm afraid we are detaining you from your work. And we must be going on to the other homes. We have such a lovely topic this month. I was hoping we would be able to discuss it with you. But I hope you will be able to come to meeting Tuesday." Mother: "Do you have a different topic each month?" Mrs. T.: "Oh, we miss giving the topic so many times. Seems like we just get to talking and the time slips by. Most of them have the Magazine, anyway." (They all rise.) Mrs. H. Takes the mother's hand. Mrs. H.: "I wish I had known you were all ill, and I'm glad to know you are well again. I'll come over in a day or so. Be of good cheer, and may the Lord bless you, dear." Mother: "Thank you, Sister Horton. Do come again, both of you. Goodbye." (Inside of next home visible to audience. A square placard states "Rees' Maternity Home." Mother and grown daughter folding babies clothes or ironing, mother looks out sees teachers coming.) Mother: "Mary, here come the Relief Society teachers, and one is dear old Sister Horton. It is like a tonic to have her come." Daughter: "Do you think she will present the topic?" Mother: "Oh, I do hope she will. I love to discuss it with them when I can't get out to meetings. A Maternity home doesn't leave one free to attend church." Outside: The teachers in view of audience walk up to the door. (A corner of the front stage.) Mrs. Tyler: "We won't get in here." Mrs. H.: "There must be someone home. She has several patients." Mrs. T.: "That is always the case, but I seldom raise anyone." (Knocks loudly, and long.) Mother opens door: "How do you do, sisters. Come in." (Shakes hands. Seats them.) Turns to Mrs. Horton. "Where is Gwen today?" Mrs. H.: "She had her daughter's children to tend while the mother went on the Temple excursion. So I am substituting." Mother: "Well, it's nice to have you come. What beautiful message do you bring me today? I'm in need of cheer, being tied like this, you know." Mrs. H.: "I love to come, too. I'm always glad to do what I can to help carry these beautiful messages of our Gospel. And it is an especially lovely one today. It is taken from the twenty-seventh Psalm: 'The Lord is my light and my salvation—whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid?' " Mother: "And we have all been crying about depression and troublesome times. That is how David sustained his faith, wasn't it? By repeating the promises God has made to his children. If only we weren't so weak!" Mrs. H.: "Yes, we do grow away from Him, depending upon ourselves, and crying that evil is falling our way." Mother: "I love to read the Psalms. One of my favorites is in the next chapter, I believe it's the twenty-eighth. Mary, will you please hand me my Bible. Thank you, dear. (Turns to passage.) I should know this by heart as many times as I read it: 'The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusted in Him, and I am helped, therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth and with my song will I praise Him.' It is a continuation of your theme, isn't it? I get so much comfort from those words." Mrs. H.: "Yes. We should all remember to draw upon His strength when He makes such promises to us. In another place it says: 'Blessed is the Nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom He has chosen for His inheritance.' We know that we are that people, but only as we have hope in His Name will He have mercy upon us." Mrs. Tyler: "Only this morning I was fault-finding with my lot. Then I picked up the paper and saw how blessed I am here in the valleys of the mountains. It made me very humble." Mrs. H.: "I've praised God, too, that I am of the Chosen People. Still, I wonder if we do not take it for granted that we will all be saved because of His great promises to us. Rather should we be looking to our individual lives to see if we deserve salvation. I wonder often that God is so patient with me when I merit so little at His hands." Mrs. T.: "If anyone ever merited salvation, Sister Horton, it is you." Mrs. H.: "You are more than kind, my dear sister, but you do not know my weaknesses. But I try to study and obey those in authority. Some of the greatest good that has come to me has been through my Relief Society teaching. It is the greatest privilege that mortal woman can have." Mrs. Tyler and Mother: "Indeed, it is." (All rise.) Mrs. H.: "We must not detain you longer." (Shakes hand of daughter who has been an interested listener. Invites her to meetings. Takes mother's hand. "I hope you can leave sometimes to attend meetings. I've enjoyed visiting with you. It is such a pleasure to discuss the topic in interested homes. May God bless your home and those who are under your loving care. Goodbye." Mother: "Goodbye, dear sisters. It has been such a pleasure to have you come." Curtain: Outside, as the two teachers walk along. Mrs. Tyler: Dear, Sister Horton, this has been the most wonderful afternoon I have spent in years. I am glad you came with me, for I have had a lesson in spirituality and teaching. You are God-inspired. Don't you know, I never realized that the members on my district were heart-hungry to discuss these beautiful topics?" Mrs. H.: "If we prepare ourselves with study God will always open the way for us to be of service, thereby broadening our —" and the voices trail away as the women disappear off stage. APRIL'S PROMISE By Linnie Parker As I watch the tiny buds burst out And the dainty leaves unfold Or see the dandelion lift Its head of purest gold— As my feet tread o'er the fresh, new grass Where not so long ago There lay just dead and withered blades Covered with lifeless snow— I wonder, as Nature comes to life,— The trees and flow'rs and grain— How anyone could ever doubt That man will live again; For if such a magic, living thing As Spring can come to pass, If God can breathe new life into Each flower and blade of grass, How well we know that rich, new life To each of us He'll bring— Spring comes to tell us there awaits For us—a greater Spring! Art at Eighty By Fay Ollerton A GOOD many people remember Anna Larsen Gillespie, christened Ane Larsen over in Serrisklev, Denmark, many years ago. She has been a librarian at the Brigham Young University since 1906, when Dr. Brimhall persuaded her she would enjoy a library more than a schoolroom. She was tall and slender then, bright-eyed and alert with tiny lines in her face and white hair in natural waves. Now at seventy-nine she catalogues where once she presided, but she is still tall, slender and alert. The fine lines are etched a little deeper, the white waves bobbed. "You don't look a day older," returning students say in honest amazement, "how do you do it?" "I'm not older," she tells them, a bit of a "humph" in her voice as she looks up from her books with a quick smile, "I'm too busy to grow old." "But when are you going to quit working so hard?" they persist. "With all the work there is to be done!" she remonstrates as she lays down her pen and looks out at Timpanogos. "I'd like to take a year off and go to an art school," she says, desire in her voice. So that's the secret! She wants to go to an art school when she is eighty! Lucky woman even to think of art at her age. Is that art school yearning a sudden interest or is it something carried over from other days? There was a rumor she had not used her pencil or brush until she was seventy years of age. She scoffed at that: "I was always drawing things when I was a child in school, all over my slates and books. 'You're wasting time doing that,' the teachers would scold me, 'and you'll come to no good end doing it.' But I went right on drawing." Determined she was in many things. There is a story about her going from Fountain Green to Salt Lake with an older woman to meet an emigrant train. The two of them camped on the Eighth Ward Square, now the City and County block. The train was delayed and day after day little Ane hung out their washing on the sagebrush that grew on the edges of the Square and wondered what there would be to eat for dinner. One day when there was nothing left but some very old and hard bread, she went alone because the companion had forbidden her going —they would starve first, she vowed to seek for food. "I picked out the biggest houses," Ane said afterwards, "and told them what had happened. And I came home with my apron full of good things to eat." Later she became a school teacher, a good one who went away to school so that she would be more fit. And once she took art lessons in Provo. "I didn't create anything," she explained quickly. "I didn't think I could do much so I just copied from other paintings." Sometimes she would give her copies for wedding presents, and when she was married she painted her bread box and her spice cans. It was not until she was seventy years old that she openly espoused art. "Bert Esmond said to me, 'Annie, why don't you go up to Aspen Grove and study under Bent Larsen?' 'Why I couldn't learn anything,' I answered him, and he told me I was denying my talent." It took courage to go to the school that first summer. Most of the students were young things who could trail their easels over the Wasatch range all day and climb Timpanogos at night. But not many of them could outdo Annie Gillespie. She walked with the best of them. "It was foolish to think of climbing Timp.," she said, "but I could do everything else." THAT summer started things. Another vacation she studied with Mr. Randolph of the California School and another with Lee Green Richards. Portrait painting, however, is not her forte. She prefers landscapes. In oil and water colors she painted pictures her friends wanted hung in their living rooms, and Provo, remember, takes its art seriously. But never was she satisfied with what she had done. It was only learning with her. She took more interest in reading about art and artists. First there was Elbert Hubbard with his glimpses into the lives of the old masters; later thick books by artists and critics. Always when she finishes reading she writes down the stirrings of her mind. "You never learn much from reading unless you do," she states with conviction. Mrs. Gillespie is ultra-modest about her pictures. Most of them she gives to her friends. When a newspaper man wrote that she sold the main part of her paintings she grew very angry. "I never heard of such a thing," she stormed, but admitted in a calmer moment that she did sell a few. Those who know her well tell with pleasure of a nephew in another state who not only ordered her pictures for his new home but also for his hospital. BUT just how does she manage to work her eight hours a day, to paint, and to keep up with the busy social and cultural life of a university town? In the first place she practices the "early to bed and early to rise" part of the old maxim. If she is tired she goes to bed right after supper— unless there is a party, a wedding, a concert, a play, or a sick friend. At six in the morning, with due allowance for the darkest winter months, she is out of bed and ready for her newspaper, a bit of reading, or work. A few minutes before eight she has on her hat and coat, waiting for the automobile which takes her to the Grant Library on the hill. That much concession she makes to seventy-nine. "But I still walk a lot," she declares, "every evening when I can and down town to attend to business." Noon time, Provo weather permitting, she likes to sit in the sun. Occasional spring mornings she thinks she would like to sit all day, but when five o'clock comes she is the last of the library trio to leave, grumbling a little that she can't stay longer when there is so much work to be done. After she comes from the Library she paints, rests, or reads a little. At a musical she may doze a bit, but if it is a lecture she is on the front row enjoying every word. Week ends, when she isn't painting or otherwise busy, she is apt to spend in Salt Lake with her son. Eating? Mrs. Gillespie is sensible about that: "I eat almost anything I want, but I don't care for very much and I learned a long time ago that the simpler things are best." Clothes she likes. "People ought to dress well if they can," she insists, and because her friends like to see her in white and pastel shades she eschews the dark and somber colors. Being slender and possessed of a spring in her walk, she can wear the new clothes as charmingly as a girl. "I'm not old," she says again. "Why should I be when I feel as well as I do. I want you to see my new picture sometime," she adds, her voice softening. "It's one of Timpanogos. I've been working on it for a long time and it's the first thing I've done that satisfies me. "Of course," she adds hastily, "it's not finished yet." Next year, when she is eighty, she would like to take a year off and go to art school. There's one in San Francisco she would like and she thinks she would enjoy a winter in California. "I could," she says, desire again strong in her voice, "paint all I want to then." CALLING STILL By Elsie E. Barrett We need Religious armour as of yore When Jesus walked and talked upon the shore Of Galilee; We hear across the waves His clarion call Once heard by Peter, Andrew, John and Paul "Come follow me." The same today as yesterday He cares, The self-same One this message still declares "Have faith and pray." His voice will ring throughout eternities, As now it's ringing down the centuries "I am the way." That prophesied eleventh hour has come, No rest, no peace, but pandemonium. We need to work; For ne'er before, so near with guilt that sears Has danger lurked in byways fraught with tears; No time to shirk. Sin stalks abroad with steadfast daring tread; On worldly storm-tossed waves we sail in dread; His "Peace be still" Will help despairing souls to stem the tide If we in patient willingness abide His Father's Will. Yes, Lucifer is out, his baits are set, He's here to WIN with shot and bayonet, And LIES that sting; Our only hope is Jesus calling still "Come follow me and all my laws fulfill." Our Savior King. Pussy Willows By C. Frank Steele "SEE you at dinner time, ma! Goodbye! This from little Freddie. "Bye, mother! And, mother — please don't forget—I've just got to have my new dress for Beth Watson's party next week. Can't you get it today? I want something new so badly, mother. My clothes are all so shabby, mother, and the rest of the girls are getting new spring outfits." This from Betty Ann. And Frances Beattie kissed her two eager children as they dashed to school. "Be sure to be home early, children, for dinner. And, Betty Ann, don't worry. You shall have your new dress for the party." They were gone. Dinner! A new dress! The words fell dark and leaden on the heart of Frances Beattie. She had pinched through the winter somehow, but today, as well she knew, the family larder was all but empty. Nothing save a few bare necessities were on the shelves that Harold Beattie once kept laden with the good things of the season. But a succession of dry years, unemployment, and depressed markets had changed all this, and the Beattie family were on the verge of want. Only his heroic, resourceful wife— and well Harold Beattie knew it— had kept the family off relief. Often it was a mystery to the anxious but helpless Harold, how she had kept the children fed and their few clothes clean and neatly mended. AND now it was coming Spring and a mellowing breeze from the distant, lilac-colored hills cooled the cheeks of Frances Beattie. She smiled through tears that had welled up in her eyes. She was her own grave, courageous, optimistic self again. Spring was calling. Harold had left the farm early for a neighboring town where a little construction work was reported to be opening up. There he hoped to find employment. Baby Harold had finished his porridge and was tugging at his mother's dress pleading for a walk. And why not? She would just walk down the familiar path to Berry Creek and back. The thought was genuinely alluring after the long, cold winter with its countless tasks and anxieties. Once out in the great, open world, feeling the first magic of spring, life looked changed. It was early morning. Already the grass was green, the crocuses were blooming here and there along the hillside's sunny slopes and it seemed from a score of points in the fields the meadowlarks were heralding their return. The prairie mother listened. The song of the birds was a song of new hope. "O mumsy—look!" cried Baby Harold, pointing a pink finger at a clump of pussy willows near the tiny stream now racing joyously through the happy valley. "Mumsy, let's get some," the child shouted, running ahead to gather some of the fuzzy little harbingers of spring. Pussy willows, large, fresh, beautiful soft pussy willows! Frances Beattie paused in admiration as she surveyed the display before which her little son was dancing. Her face was a study. Who does not love these pretty, silver-tipped cuttings in early spring? Could she—could it be done? Why not? THE next day was Saturday. Harold Beattie had not returned and Frances was worried. Bridgetown was 22 miles away and she had to get there and get there early. By six o'clock she was watching the road. An hour passed and just as it seemed that her vigil was to end in failure there appeared a city-bound car. She soon saw it was Charlie Pearce at the wheel of the ancient auto chugging noisily down the highway. Beside him sat his wife, Martha. "Mr. Pearce, O Mr. Pearce—are you going to town?" cried Frances from the doorway of her front room. The car came to a stop in front of the gate. "Yes, we're off to town. Going to market, Mrs. Beattie?" This from the good-natured driver. "Why, Frances, what on earth have you got to sell?" asked Martha peering curiously out of the car at his neighbor. "Pussy willows!" And Frances laughed. "What!" This from the Pearces in unison. "Yes, pussy willows. Those city folk will snap them up in a hurry, Mr. Pearce—in fact, they've got to. May I ride to town with you, and may I place my pussy willows in your stall, please?" "Why, sure, Frances, but I think it's a pack of foolishness. You're just a wastin' your time. Why Martha has a terrible time getting rid of her butter and eggs and fresh meat and things like that. So I can't see anybody a buyin' pussy willows. But come along, Frances." And soon Frances and her great clusters of pussy willows were in the car and along with them a sign in gay colors: "Greet the Spring with fresh-cut Pussy Willows! Only 25 cents a bunch!" IT was eight o'clock that night when Frances Beattie climbed out of the Pearce auto and presented herself to her anxious family awaiting her return. They were standing in the doorway to give her a welcome. Mr. Beattie had returned and was holding Baby Harold in his arms. As the parcel-laden Frances made her way into the house she assumed the role of a belated Santa Claus. Mysterious packages were tossed about and opened with amazing rapidity. "Marbles, candies, cookies—and real new overalls!" It was Freddie who screamed his delight. "Joy, O joy! My new dress. O mother, you're wonderful," cried Betty Ann rushing to her mother with a volley of kisses. "And it's mauve, just the shade we've talked about, isn't it, mother?" "And Daddy, look—here's a new wheelbarrow for me. Now I can help in the garden!" It was Baby Harold's turn to rejoice and he did it with eyes shining. "Frances, dear, tell me how you did it?" asked the puzzled husband looking from the children's gifts to a box of groceries that Mr. Pearce had pushed in through the door. Frances smiled. "Pussy willows —a new cash crop," she replied. A Daily Storm By Eunice J. Gardner DO you have a storm each evening? If not, you are missing one of the most interesting phases of family life. I do not allude to any condition of the weather, nor yet to verbal storms which are prevalent in some households. This storm is in a class by itself. Those fortunate mothers who have experienced it in by-gone days, as well as those who are at present enjoying its daily tonic effect, will unanimously agree that it is refreshing and stimulating to the soul. One bright day in the early spring a dear friend spent an afternoon at my home. About 4:30 p. m. I remarked: "I am so glad we have enjoyed a confidential visit together without any interruptions. In a few minutes I expect my storm to come, and then privacy will be an impossibility." With a bewildered expression, she looked first at me and then at the blue sky overhead. "A storm, do you say? I've heard of a 'bolt from the blue,' but surely you aren't predicting a storm on a day like this!" she laughingly protested. At that moment we heard a merry whistle down the street. "Here comes the fore-runner of the storm," I explained as my sturdy fifteen-year-old scout came whistling up the sidewalk. The school bus had just returned from its daily trip to the high school in the neighboring town. "Really, my dear friend," I continued, "I have daily storms of varying degrees of intensity. But there is always a storm, for in our family we have the materials for all varieties. This boy I call my cyclone or tornado because he makes the most noise and starts the greatest number of projects. However, he isn't the violent, destructive kind of cyclone, but one who is full of vitality and original ideas and loves to make things hum. His older brother, who is away attending college, is more serene and serious, so I used to call him my breeze. Yet at times, when fired with some mighty purpose, the gentle breeze could suddenly become a hurricane." The three girls soon returned from school and joined the cyclone. My visitor could readily see why I called my vivacious thirteen-year-old daughter my whirlwind, and why the titles given the ten-year-old twins were gale and zephyr. My friend was one who loves and appreciates children. They quickly responded to her sincere and understanding attitude. She entered into their delightful plans and became as eager and enthusiastic as any one of the group. She left me regretting that she, a lover of children, was denied having a storm of her own. SOME days when you feel gloomy over a real or fancied slight you have received, and are ready to indulge in self-pity, that most destructive of indoor sports, think of your approaching storm and its many possibilities for diversion and happiness. Be prepared when it comes, so you won't appear bored or indifferent. Be ready to cooperate with your children and enjoy their companionship. Encourage them in their projects, and welcome their friends to come to your home to participate in their plans and enterprises. No woman need ever be lonely or sad very long if she has a daily storm to vary her activities. It is a blessed opportunity for mothers. Make the most of it. Full Measure By Roxana F. Hase EMMA Lerner stopped her little coupe in front of Jerusha Brown's bungalow. "Well, here we are, Lelia, our very last visit of the month." As they stepped out into the snow Lelia sighed, "well, one thing sure, we won't get into her house today. This snow is wet and we might track up her rug." "But I intend to get in, Lelia. Come on." They wiped their feet carefully on the porch mat and rang the bell. Almost immediately Jerusha opened the door a crack, duster in hand, although it was mid-afternoon. There was no warmth in her short reply to their greeting, but Emma Lerner was known as a resourceful woman. They had not been invited in for the past two months and she hoped to find out why. Lelia would gladly have cancelled the call, but not so Emma. "My, but it smells good in there, Sister Brown. You must be baking bread." "I am," but there was no signs of her relenting, nor did she relinquish her hold upon the inner door knob. Emma cleared her throat. "We have a special message for you this month, Sister Brown, but we do not want you to take cold standing there in a draught." Jerusha hesitated a moment longer and looked dubiously at their damp shoes. "Well, I guess you might as well come in. I sure do wish the weather would clear up. The snow makes so much extra work." "Yes, but I love the tingle it gives one. My, but you have things nice and cozy." Jerusha brushed an imaginary speck of dust from the leather davenport and asked them to sit down. She sat very stiff and erect on the edge of a rocking chair and waited for Emma to begin. "First, we would like to invite you to attend our Annual Day party on March 17th. We always have a lovely time. Then as Second Counselor I have been commissioned to ask you to consider the position of pianist for our organization." "Oh, no, no. I couldn't possibly. My home keeps me too busy. I never have felt that I could give time to the church on week days." "But Rosalie is nearly through high school, and she must help you a good deal." "Oh, yes, of course. But I feel that I should be here to see that she does things properly. She is my only child you know and I want her to be a good housekeeper at least. To me the home is the most important thing in the world." "Of course it is," Lelia put in, "and the Relief Society helps us to make our homes better all the time." "Well, I am quite sure that if I started to Relief Society I should be neglecting something here. You know that I never miss church on Sunday, and John pays our tithes and offerings and I feel that quite sufficient." "But did you ever think of tithing yourself, Sister Brown?" "Tithing myself?" "Exactly. I mean giving one tenth of yourself, or your talents, or time to the church." "Well of all things! Why a person wouldn't be able to accomplish anything else." "You would be surprised how much more you really do accomplish, Sister Brown. And tithing ourselves has been the special hobby of some of us this winter. I have never found anything more worthwhile nor interesting. You with your wonderful musical talent would have no trouble at all in making your quota. Your time at Relief Society could be counted, and your practice time at home. Also whatever time you spent studying the lessons. Some of the members are giving their tenth in these ways; music, singing, visiting the sick or homebound, making calls as visiting teachers, canning fruit, or sewing for donations. You would marvel at the ways and means available. Many of them are giving far more than one-tenth." EMMA had used the right psychology. Jerusha had an inborn sense of duty. Yet she had never considered the auxiliary organizations of the church as being of much importance. She began to wonder now if the people of the ward really did consider her as one that wasn't doing her full duty. The Lord himself had set Sunday apart as a day of worship. She fully believed in keeping the Sabbath. She sighed heavily. "I wonder if we really are supposed to do that?" Emma's answer was ready, "And why not? Truly the windows of heaven have opened up and poured rich blessings upon all of our members. They have all remarked about it. You know the Relief Society is really an inspired organization. The Prophet himself gave it to us with promises of great blessings. Would you have time to play my favorite song for us, Sister Brown? As I remember, you have a very fine soprano voice, too. The Lord did not endow you with all of these fine talents for naught." Jerusha laid her beloved duster on the polished floor and played, "Make the World Brighter." Her face glowed with pride as she sang with ease the highest notes while Lelia had to pause for breath. Quickly she turned the pages to "Have I Done Any Good in the World Today?" "This was always my mother's favorite song," she said. "Let's sing it." The song ended they all sat back in meditation for a moment. The peacefulness seemed almost too sweet to disturb. Emma looked at her watch. "It is getting late. We really must be going. What is your answer, Sister Brown? This seems an odd time of the year to be putting in a new officer, but Sister Anderson is moving away, and besides it will give you a better chance to be in practice for next winter." Jerusha glanced about her living-room once more as though she really felt that this was the last time that she would see it in such an immaculate state. She started to pick up her duster, then laughed and said, "I just can't seem to keep my hands off of that thing. But I believe you are right. Perhaps a little personal tithing is just what I need. You say that meeting begins at two o'clock? I'll be there." Pine Ways By Linnie Fisher Robinson IT was springtime in Bethany, little Phebe sat in the afternoon sunshine upon her father's house. Of many things, she liked the sun the best, liked to feel it caressingly about her. It was almost like seeing, for Phebe was blind. This hour her brother sat beside her and talked of many things; he noted now her delicate and exquisite features, her dainty form, and tried anew to show her what his eyes beheld. "But a little way to our south," he said, "is Bethlehem, and on the hills the shepherds tend their flocks. It is very beautiful there by night." He cast his eyes toward the North, many people were now passing to and from Jerusalem, a mile or so away. The road wound downward to walls white in the sunshine. Lowering his voice, he told her of a man named Jesus whom he had seen and heard beside the sea of Galilee. "And many souls believe and hear who never saw or heard on Him," he added, "and many see before, and many walk who were lame. But many hate Him bitterly and seek His life." Phebe raised her eyes wonderingly, trying to understand. Her eyes were brown with little flecks of gold in them, like the tints in the deep brown of her hair. "His hair is like yours, Phebe," he said, "so are His eyes; He seems to see So far, so very far—" his voice died away into his thoughts. Ten long years he had led this little sister by the hand over the rocky heights of Bethany; and ten long years neighbors and friends alike had avoided them because of this affliction. Phebe didn't know, they hadn't told her, she was but four when she had fondled a little sightless lamb and then she had been —cursed? No! Not cursed. He'd always known it wasn't that, life was far too beautiful to do that. He loved even the rocks that crowded in the streets and the beauty of Jerusalem so high upon the hills. And now see what this man Jesus had said, when He healed the blind beggar by the way, "neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him." Yet people crossed the street before their door, and many whispers speculated on the hidden evil of his parents. "And He is coming now to Bethany?" questioned Phebe, a look of joy upon her face. "It is to the home of Mary and Martha he comes this day, He is on His way to Jerusalem, and it is whispered they will crown Him King." THE sun's last rays were fading in the west, turning the world to gold, in the glow Phebe leaned forward toward the road, a large company of people were drawing near, Phebe listened to the noise of footsteps and mingled voices. "Jesus leads the company," her brother whispered, "I wish that you could see Him, Phebe, but I will take you to Him, yet ere night falls." "But I—I already see," breathed the girl in wonder, "and oh far more, I see the Love He has for all mankind. I vow to love others and do for them as He would have me." Amidst the tumult and the noise Jesus, perceiving virtue had gone out of Him, gave the girl a reassuring glance and then passed on. A TIRED little woman with wavy brown hair, graying about her temples, sat before a gathering of saints, in the home of Aquilla and Priscilla in far away Rome. Aquilla had finished the business of the evening; he was concluding his talk: "And now," he said, reading from a letter, "Paul says, 'I commend unto you Phebe, our sister which is a servant of the church which is at Cenchrea: That ye receive her in the Lord, as becometh Saints, and that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you, for she hath been a succorer of many and of myself also.' " Aquilla looked up, "now as you already know, Phebe has followed where ever there are saints organized, to assist those who have the love of Jesus in their hearts, to care for the sick and needy. We are honored by her presence: Sister Phebe is tired from her long journey, but will salute you." From beside Aquilla the tired little form arose, she wondered what she could say this night. And then again, as many years ago, she saw the form of Jesus coming up the toilsome road to Bethany, His face turned toward the great tower of David, looming in the distance, high above the walls of Jerusalem; the eyes of her understanding were opened and she saw again His great love for all men; it was this, coupled with the testimony of her blessing, that had ever carried her on. Those crowded there saw the pale face flush, the shoulders straighten, her eyes became luminous and tender. In a voice full and vibrant she saluted them and said, "I had almost forgotten, it is nearing the day of our Lord's birth, who laid down His life for us. It is a great privilege to begin this night an organization to care for the least of His; we can do nothing better than express our love for Him in gifts to the needy. Our brother Paul is himself carrying comfort to the afflicted saints in Jerusalem from the saints of Macedonia and Achaia. He sends you special greetings, as have all his fellow workers; and I repeat, be happy in the blessings of Christ Jesus. If ye are doing good and have good will towards all, be ye blessed so many times more—" And so, in Rome, many miles from Bethany, relief was organized, and many back along the route of her travels carried aid and cheer to saddened hearts. Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund Swedish Mission SOMETIME ago greetings from the Relief Society Board of the Swedish Mission reached the office. This board was organized under the Presidency of Elder Gustav W. Forsberg in September, 1933, and has continued in connection with the Mission President and the Presidency of the European Mission, to direct the affairs of the Relief Society. The saints extended a hearty welcome, and were eager to get the instructions in Relief Society activity and the educational program. This is one of the Missions where the Annual Dues have been successfully instituted, and the sisters are for the most part very willing and eager to support the organization. The following lines, quoted from the Vingaker Branch, are typical of the spirit of the Mission: "The sisters here send their hearty greetings to the Presidency of the Relief Society. It was an unforgettable Sunday for us all when we met with the Mission President. Words cannot express our gratitude for the labor of love our sisters are doing and for all the good teachings and valuable advice we, in our imperfectness, received. We will try to remember them and put them into practical use. We all talked about you last Sunday and we extend to you a hearty invitation to come again. I now know that each and every one of the sisters here gladly will pay their yearly Dues. May God abundantly reward your self-sacrificing labors...." It is easy to work where the spirit of the people is so fine. There are now fifteen branches organized in the Swedish Mission. The sisters are faithful and devoted, and regard it a pleasure and privilege to add their part toward making the Relief Society successful. German-Austrian Mission IMMEDIATELY following the holiday season came a beautiful description of the Christmas party which was held by the Relief Society in Berlin on Christmas Eve. The color-scheme of silver and white was carried out in all the decorations. On entering the hall where the party was held, one was greeted with the soft, mellow light of candles, and soft music suggested the beauty of the occasion. In one corner of the room stood a beautiful Christmas Tree, lighted with tallow candles, all snow-white. Bon-bons, nuts and candy were wrapped in silver wrappings. At the side of the tree stood a small table covered with a white cloth, with a centerpiece of pine boughs arranged in the form of a nest. From this rose four extra long white candles, with pine boughs decorated in silver trimmings. On each side of the room, extending the entire length, were two tables covered with white cloths and decorated with pine boughs and dainty vases. Small candles, alternating green and red supplied the light. People were seated round the tables facing the tree. When the beautiful sacred service began, the organ played "Silent RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Night," and the sisters sang the beautiful words. The German saints know this beautiful carol by heart. Stories and poems, with appropriate music, constituted the program of the evening. On the table were extra candles, and as one burned down the sister nearest it replaced it with another. As the program closed the President of Relief Society stepped from the room and returned with her arms loaded with boxes for the L. D. S. Missionaries. Two beautiful young girls presented a Christmas playlet. The work of the Relief Society is progressing very satisfactorily and the saints in this Mission expressed their pleasure at the opportunity for work in this organization. Swiss-German Mission ROM the Swiss-German Mission comes this very fine summary of the work. The Relief Society in this Mission is progressing satisfactorily, and every effort is being made to make the educational program attractive and interesting. The women seem to enjoy the work very greatly in all the branches. This year the aim of the Relief Society is to have an organization in every branch where it is possible. Samoan Mission "THE annual reports coming into the office from every organization of Relief Society in the world, bring to us the realization of the -wide extent covered by our organization. The following report comes from Sister Agnes M. Sears, President of the Samoan Relief Society, who reports that the organizations are all progressing very satisfactorily and are fully organized. They are looking forward to the seventeenth of March, when a gathering of the sisters from all parts of the island will be held at Sauniatu, and NOTES FROM THE FIELD a most delightful time is anticipated. Canadian Mission FROM the Canadian Mission comes word from Sister Alice R. Rich, Mission President, who expressed her pleasure at the work of the Relief Society in this mission. Though some of the branches are very small, and the sisters widely scattered, it is marvelous to see how much effort they put forth to attend the meetings and carry on the work. The Work and Business Department has shown marked improvement in the past few months, and suggestions for this type of activity are gratefully accepted. The sisters of this mission take great pride in the wonderful Relief Society organization, and are happy to participate in the opportunities offered through the study courses. Mexican Mission A MOST delightful account of a tour through the Mexican Mission is made by Sister Anna H. Pratt, Relief Society Mission President. Conferences in most of the branches have been held. The program was made in advance by the Mission President and sent to the various branches to prepare. There were talks on Theology, Social Service and the best methods of interesting people in the Visiting Teachers’ 265 work. These talks were made by the local Presidents, and were very well prepared. There were also choruses of Relief Society sisters who furnished fine music. The attendance at the special meetings was very excellent. In the City of Mexico district, three large conferences were held, at which the attendance ranged from sixty-one to ninety-four. The sisters seemed much more interested in the work than they were a year ago; this was indicated by the number of questions which were asked and the manifest interest in the work of the organization. Quoting from Sister Pratt's letter: "In Mexico City district we have a district presidency and their work has been splendid considering the time at their disposal. All our branches received special visits, some more than one, and they are doing some fine things in helping the sick and needy. The sisters are interested in the Work and Business Meetings. In some branches a yearly bazaar is held. It has been something of a problem to get the reports from the teachers, but the report blanks are mailed to the Presidents each month, and the secretaries are becoming more careful in their work. The work of the Relief Society is being felt in the blessing it is to the sisters, and those of the missions greatly appreciate the help of this fine organization. Rain By Ella J. Coulam April sheds so many tears Over pent-up joys and fears; She weeps when fragrant lilacs blow, With tears her daffodils bend low. Oh! Would that I could live as she And keep my soul as trouble free; For when her tears are spent, at last, Her cares are buried with the past. Notes to the Field | National Youth Administration THE Federal Government, through the National Youth Administration, has made available three funds to assist youth who are unemployed. One fund is available to universities and colleges to assist young people to continue their education. These funds are administered by the executives of the schools, based upon the need of students. A similar fund is available to high schools. Here also principals provide work opportunities for boys and girls according to their need, to assist them to purchase books, transportation and other essentials for them to remain at school. The third sum is for work projects for young people ages 16-25, who are members of families eligible for employment on the Works Progress Administration Projects. These young people must be registered in the' National Re-employment Service. It is reported that many of these young people have not registered, and therefore will not be assigned to the National Youth Administration Projects which are now established throughout the several States. We believe the above information will be of value to our officers who no doubt will know many young people who could be in school if they knew of the help which is available, and many who will want to work on the National Youth Projects if they are informed that they should register with the National Re-employment Service. Bear River Stake Reorganized WORD comes to us of the recent reorganization of the Bear River Stake Relief Society. It is a pleasure to express to the retiring President, Sister Margaret W. Manning and her co-workers, the grateful appreciation of the General Board of Relief Society for their long and efficient service. Sister Manning has certainly demonstrated the essential qualities of leadership— vision to see the needs of her community, courage to follow the course that leads to achievement, even though sometimes difficult; and magnetism to draw others with her. It is with a feeling of regret that we no longer count her among our group of Stake Presidents, but we know that she will always cherish Relief Society in her heart and have the love and esteem of her co-workers and the general organization. Weare very happy to greet Sister Clara H. Fridal, the new President, and the able group of women with which she has surrounded herself, and feel sure that the high standard achieved in Relief Society by President Manning will be carried forward under the able leadership of Sister Fridal. Literary Department H4VE you ever wished to turn back the pages in the Book of Life and live again with friends and companions whose spirit and influence meant so much to you? Why not turn the pages of other books and enjoy that same feeling of companionship with those who have interpreted life and nature in language of power and beauty, so that out of the silence their voice speaks to your understanding heart. For suggestions read: Adventures in Reading in the November, 1935, Relief Society Magazine. NOTES TO THE FIELD Work and Business Department IF housewives knew what the market provides in commodities and service, where the articles are obtainable, when available, the best season and form of each; special characteristics of various kinds of goods, their comparative value in relation to suitability for use, durability and cost in terms of household preparation and care, much worry, time and energy would be eliminated. Social Service UR civilization will be measured by the children it produces and by the civilization they in turn produce. The most hopeful and outstanding quality of our present generation is that it has become child conscious. Many even feel that the only really worthwhile values in the human race are associated with children. People now are realizing that child welfare is a subject which should be of deep interest not only to every parent but to every citizen as well. Parents cannot afford to limit their attention to their own children, for 267 the welfare of their own children depends in a large measure upon the welfare of children generally. If it is true that you cannot be sure of good health in the avenue, while disease flourishes in the alley, that you cannot be sure of the health of your own children as long as other children are ill; it may also be true that you cannot be sure of the moral and spiritual safety of your own children if other children are not also protected from evils and vice. Our interest in child welfare should not diminish as long as there are: 6,000,000 improperly nourished 1,000,000 with defective speech 1,000,000 with weak or damaged hearts 675,000 present behavior problems 450,000 mentally retarded 382,000 tubercular 3,000,000 with impaired hearing 18,000 totally deaf 300,000 crippled 50,000 partially blind 14,000 wholly blind 200,000 delinquent 500,000 dependent. LADDIE By Emma Rigby Coleman A baby's such a common thing, There's one born every minute. And yet, I think my laddie's worth The world and all that's in it! I cuddle him so close and tight, Observe the way he grows; I sing to him of fairyland, Play, "piggie" with his toes. Though babies are a common thing, With one born every minute, I wouldn't give my laddie for The world and all that's in it! THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN.- KATE M. BARKER JULIA A. F. LUND Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Motto--Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith Rosannah C. Irvine - President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Jennie B. Knight Lalene H. Hart Lotta Paul Baxter Cora L, Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Nettie D. Bradford Elise B. Alder Inez. K. Allen Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Manager - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Vox. XXIII APRIL, 1936 No. 4 EDITORIAL April WHAT joy fills the being as one sees the green blades peep through the earth, the flowers burst forth with their riot of color, the trees appear decked in bloom. This year people are especially joyous for after years of short water Arbor ARBOR DAY owes its origin to J. Sterling Morton of Nebraska, a former Secretary of Agriculture of the United States. While the word arbor to America means a bower, to the Romans it meant a tree and so it is an appropriate title for this day when all over the United States many, many trees are planted. Before the inauguration of this day Nebraska was called "the treeless State" then it set the very first recorded tree-planting day when the State Board of Agriculture adopted a resolution by J. Sterling Morton designating the 10th of April for that purpose. In that year, 1872, more than a million trees were planted. This example was emulated by other states until now it is nationwide in its observance. Supplies the mountains are covered deep with snow, the earth is soaked as it has not been for years, times are growing better in the business world too, so with new hopes and bright prospects we hail the springtime. May its gladness fill every heart. Day The service of trees, it has been truly said, begins with the cradle and ends with the coffin. To an almost unimaginable extent this service continues throughout life. Houses, furniture, fences, fuel, frames and handles for, agricultural implements, wharves, boats and ships, rubber with all the uses to which it is put, gum, bark, cork, carriages, railroad cars and automobiles—how difficult it would be to make these without trees. Trees guard the sources of rivers, prevent floods, give shade and beauty. During the last few years many memorial trees have been planted. Pasadena calls her memorial trees her Hall of Fame. "Trees are monuments with a meaning, for they live gloriously just as did those for whom they were planted." Editor Assistant Manager Mary Connelly Kimbal! Amy Brown Lyman EDITORIAL Foreign visitors frequently plant trees. The Prince of Wales placed _many in the United States as did also Foch when they visited here. Pershing planted many trees in France. Trees should be planted with Intelligent thought. They should be carefully cared for after they are planted. Children should be taught in the home and in the schools to love trees, to have knowledge concerning them, how to distinguish the different species, what kinds to select for planting in different localities, how to plant them, how to protect them and care for them. Tree planting gives discipline in foresight. In this day we are all too prone to desire quick results, immediate returns. He who plants a tree, plants for future beauty and joy and not only for his own but for a future generation. Very many people have made the mistake of planting too many trees and have had too much shade around their houses. They also have made a mistake in the kinds they have planted. While the poplar, boxelder and silver maple grow quickly and look well for a time, they are short lived and in a few years become unsightly. Trees should be chosen for their hardiness, attractiveness and usefulness. The elm and oak while slow in growth live for a century and each 269 year adds to their picturesqueness and gracefulness. One who drives in April into the country and notes the quickening of the earth as a result of the warm sunshine that has penetrated the ground, sees earth coming to life. An urge fills his being to plant. "Plant thou a tree whose griefless leaves shall sing Thy deed and thee, each fresh unfolding spring." —E. M. Thomas. Arbor Day, we must remember, means more than planting trees. Shrubbery, plants and seeds of various kinds are planted on that day and schools also encourage the children to clean up the lots and make the property around their homes more sightly. Many get the spirit of this day and do much planting who would otherwise fail to do it. There is a growing tendency for people not only to beautify their own property but the highways. Grounds around public buildings are often beautified on this day. It would be well for everyone who possibly can to do some planting each Arbor Day and thus make the world a more beautiful place in which to live. A Benefactor UNTIL John Davey worked out tree surgery over fifty years ago, it was thought that trees had to die when they were sick and that man could do nothing about it. John Davey became a trained horticulturist. When he looked at sick trees, he asked why they could not be saved. His study of botany and other sciences made him think that these living trees would yield to curative processes, so he experimented and worked out a system of treatment for trees unique and revolutionary. After a lifetime of effort he was triumphant. He laid the foundation for a new profession. He lived to see his theories and philosophy accepted and his methods put in general practice. Because of his life work countless thousands of trees have been saved. DEMAND Utah Beet Sugar At no extra cost you. Help the farmers and wage earners of your own state which directly or indirectly Benefits you. Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices ee General Board Relief Society Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 'Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Here is the best "job insurance" policy! Learn to do your work better than anyone else can do it. Our modern equipment, competent faculty, and individual methods of instruction will help you to win and hold the better positions. DAY AND EVENING CLASSES ALL THE YEAR Visit the School, send a card, or telephone for information. I. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City Keep Your Home Painted... And you'll keep It NEW!... And new for a long time if you use FULLER PURE PREPARED PAINT— a product that has been the standard of paint quality for 87 years. Also— USE THESE QUALITY PRODUCTS FULLER Decoret Enamel, Fullerglo, Fullerwear Floor Enamel, Fullerene Wallpaper Cleaner, Fuller Wallpapers, Speedite Varnish, Fuller Mirrors, At FULLER PAINT DEALERS Everywhere Ww. P. FULLER & CO. Salt Lake and Ogden, Utah FULLER PAINTS they last When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 70 North Main Street Wasatch FUNDS ALWAYS ON HAND YOU CAN DO MORE WITH YOUR SAVINGS OR A LUMP SUM—THROUGH LIFE INSURANCE, THAN BY ANY OTHER INVESTMENT PLAN— A SMALL PAYMENT PROVIDES AN IMMEDIATE CASH ESTATE—THE IDEAL PLAN FOR MEN, WOMEN AND CHILDREN. SEE A BENEFICIAL REPRESENTATIVE OR WRITE BENEFICIAL CIAL LIFE BENEFIAL COMPANY HOME OFFICE SALT LAKE City, UTAH STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT & DIRECTOR J. REUBEN CLARK JR., 1ST VICE-PRES. & DIR. DAVID O. MCKAY, 2ND VICE-PRES. & DIR. GEO. J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRES. & DIR. AXEL B. C. OHLSON, SECRETARY & DIRECTOR JOS. FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR LEO E. PENROSE, ASST. SECRETARY VIRGIL H. SMITH, ASST. SECRETARY EARLE W. PIERCE, ASST. TREASURER EUGENE P. WATKINS, SUP. R. E. LOAN DEPT. WALDO M. ANDERSON, AGENCY SUPERVISOR DR. W. R. CALDERWOOD, MEDICAL DIRECTOR ASHBY D. BOYLE, ATTORNEY The RELIEF SOCIETY ALAZINGE Volume XXiii  MAY, 1936 No. 5 HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS From Factory To You—We Solicit Your Mail Orders New Style oes$.65 No. 84. Med, Lt. Wt. Men's and New Style 1.10 No. 85. Very Special Non-RunN . 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Rayon, Men's and Ladies Back  1.45 New Style Only Sr 1.10 No. 83. Extra Fine ilk-Rayon No. 81. Hvy Wt. Old Style, Double 7 Double Combed Yarn. Better ae SORES SOC Than Part Wool. This Comes Combed Yarn. Ladies' New: Style 1.65 Style Only 1.25 Short Sleeves, Ankle Length We Mark Garments For 10e States.. Style, and if Men's or Ladies'. THIS IS ALSO THE PLACE TO OUTFIT THE MISSIONARY WITH ONE OF THOSE FAMOUS RAMBOULLETTE SUITS This is one of our Specials WE HAVE A LARGE ASSORTMENT Our Famous OF HEAVY WORSTEDS AT Ramboullette Serge. [ ) y/ 1 15 Extra @ Single or Pants, $4.00 Double Breast. Extra Pants, $4.00 WE ALWAYS GIVE SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO THE MISSIONARY 14 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH NN 52 ways to use your Waffle Iron For breakfast, yes, but you will also remember that those delicious ham and bacon waffles with dozens of others that please the family and friends any time, day or night. Call the Home Service Department and ask about them. Electricity Is The Biggest Bargain In The Home UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 88. Lt. Weight Men's and Ladies' No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' No. 86. Extra Fine Rayon and Double We Charge 10% Extra For Extra Sizes. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles..$.85 Ladies' New Style.............. 85 in Winter Weight Men's New Please Specify When Ordering Your Bust, Trunk and Length, Whether New or Old Distinctive— PEERLESS LAUNDRY SNOW WHITE CLOTHES Complete Laundry Service Service Above All SALT LAKE PROVO OGDEN PRICE PAYSON MANTI HOME OWNED ~ HOME OPERATED 1st South at 3rd East—-17th South at 5th East South Temple at 2nd East We Are Proud to Serve the People of Utah with When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 1184 East 21st South Phone Hy. 2182 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vou. XXIII MAY, 1936 No. 5 CONTENTS Mother's Day Song of Thanksgiving...................... Bertha A. Kleinman 271 The Singing Mothers—Frontispiece..........272 The Present Duty of the Relief Society............ President J. Reuben Clark 273 The Mother of Nancy.........Vesta P. Crawford 277 Tired Mothers........Elsie E. Barrett 279 Mothers of Men......Mary P. Curtis 280 Motherhood Prays........Ann Jarvis 287 You Are His Whom You List To Obey..............David R. Lyon 288 On the Trails of the Old Kaibab................... Elsie C. Carroll 289 Elizabeth Snow Ivins.........Amy Brown Lyman 294 Book Binding............. Bertha B. Asper 296 Pieced Quilts Della Adams Leitner 298 Lessons for 1936- 299 Happenings...........Annie Wells Cannon 301 Relief Society Annual Report.........Julia A. F. Lund 302 To Mother.......Samuel G. Clawson 304 Relief Society Conference................Notes to the Field 334 Editorial: - Good Will Month 335 Adequate Care for Mothers........ 335 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance, Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879, Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine WE ARE OUT OF THE HIGH RENT DISTRICT We own our own building and warehouse adjacent, buy in car load lots, take advantage of all cash discounts and pass the savings on to you. EVERYTHING TO FURNISH THE HOME—BUY NOW AND SAVE GRANITE 1050 East 21st South, Sugar House—Murray—Park City We deliver everywhere NATURE'S MOST PERFECT FOOD AND ECONOMICAL TOO FOR HOME DELIVERY—PHONE ARDEN DAIRY PURE AT THE SOURCE L. D. S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES No. 68. Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, Old Style 85c—New Style $.75 No. 500. Super Non-run Rayon, Short Sleeves and Knee Length $1.10 No. 74. Ribbed Lt. Wt. Fine Combed Cotton $1.19 No. 73. Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton Silk Stripe, Ladies' New Style Only $1.25 No. 64. Lt. Med. Wt. Bleached Combed Cotton $1.25 No. 62. Med. Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton $1.65 No. 56. Extra Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton $1.98 No. 82. 33 1-3% Wool $3.15 No. 70. 10% Wool Silk Stripe $2.25 In ordering garments please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted; also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 10c. An additional charge of 20% will be made on orders for persons weighing 210 pounds or over. SALT LAKE CITY UTAH 57 Years L. D. S. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. No. 144. Light weight cotton, New or Old Style $1.00 No. 803. Figured Rayon, Old Style and Ladies' New $1.25 No. 33. Spring Needle, Lt. Wt. Cot. New or Old Style $1.25 No. 472. Elastic Knit, Light Weight, New Style Only $.75 No. 205. Fine rib, Med. Weight, New or Old Style $1.35 No. 609. Run resist rayon, Ladies New Style Only $1.00 No. 405. Run resist rayon, New or Old Style $1.35 No. 1758. Ecru or White, Med. Heavy Old and Men's New Style $1.65 No. 464. Rib. Knit, Med. Wt., New and Old Style $1.00 No. 1144. Heavy Weight Cotton Ecru Old or New Style $1.95 Established in making L. D. S. Garments in Utah 45 Years HARMON & CO. 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine FISHER'S VITAMIN "D" BREADS GIVE VITAL ENERGY Be sure you include Fisher's Vitamin "D" Bread, either white or whole wheat, with your grocery order. These better breads supply energy for vitality plus the extra Vitamin "D" all growing boys and girls need. Baked by master bakers in the AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY The large, home-owned bakery Have newly-finished, colorful woodwork in your home this spring! BENNETT'S Property Life Insurance Gloss Interior Finish will transform the appearance of your walls and woodwork. It is a fine enamel-like paint in 16 beautiful shades and tints. Dries overnight to a hard, brilliant finish. At all Bennett Dealers, and BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. 61-65 West First South St. Salt Lake City Literary Course BOOKS The Deseret Book Company is official distributor for the 1936-37 Literary texts to be used by the Relief Society. Buy these books now and get acquainted with them during the summer. At Store Postpaid Julia Ward Howe $1.85 $2.00 Alice Freeman Palmer 1.15 1.25 Abraham Lincoln .75 .90 $3.75 $4.15 Set of Three Books $3.60 $4.00 Add 2% Utah Sales Tax Whatever your book needs, we are prepared to serve you DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine L. D. S. TEMPLE GARMENTS Of Superior quality and workmanship manufactured for the SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE And sold at prices defying competition. When ordering from us remember we Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. FOR LADIES No. 708 Light Weight Ribbed $1.00 No. 735 Light Weight Cotton Ribbed $1.25 No. 703 Flat Weave Spring Needle $1.35 No. 750 Non-Run Rayon $1.50 No. 762 Non-Run Rayon $1.65 No. 792 Fine Quality Cotton Lisle $1.75 No. 734 Non-Run Super Bemberg $1.95 FOR MEN No. 608 Ribbed Summer Weight $1.00 No. 635 Ribbed Light Weight $1.25 No. 610 Light Weight Spring Needle $1.10 No. 602 Extra Fine Quality Lisle $1.25 No. 620 Medium Lt. Wt. Double Back $1.50 No. 664 Med. Heavy Wt. Cot. Double Back $1.50 No. 719 Ribbed Light Weight $1.00 No. 614 Medium Weight Extra Quality $1.50 No. 634 Non-Run Super Bemberg Silk $1.50 Garments Marked Upon Request. 10c Per Pair Extra Prices Subject to Change Without Notice. 20% Extra Charge for Sizes Over 46. Do not fail to specify New or Old Style and if for Man or Woman. Also state if long or short sleeve, short or long legs are wanted. Give accurate Bust Measurements. Height and Weight. Samples Sent Upon Request. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah—OLDEST KNITTING STORE IN UTAH A word to the Bride Amid the excitement of preparation for the happy event, it is comforting to know that your wedding stationery is correct in form and in the latest mode. See our beautiful new stock of social stationery and let us handle this detail for you, assured that it will receive the most painstaking care. Prices very modest. Call or write for samples THE DESERET NEWS PRESS PIONEER PRINTERS AND BINDERS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Because it is made from linseed oil, the base of paint, LIN-SOL removes dirt and grease from painted walls and woodwork without harming gloss and lustre. LIN-SOL actually "feeds" the paint, making it last longer. THE PURE LINSEED OIL JELL SOAP TO RENEW AND BEAUTIFY LIN-SOL Sold by FULLER PAINT DEALERS Everywhere DECORET ENAMEL Drabness turns to vivid beauty at the magic touch of your paint brush! Any one or any combination of a score of lovely tints in Quick-Drying DECORET ENAMEL. Use FULLER Paints—they last! There's a Fuller Paint for every purpose. W. P. FULLER & CO. Salt Lake and Ogden PAINT—WALLPAPER—GLASS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MOTHERS' DAY SONG OF THANKSGIVING By Bertha A. Kleinman Inscribed to the Singing Mothers of Relief Society Lord, in Thy tenderness, Lord in Thy love, List Thou my Song of Thanksgiving today, Gloria, Gloria rings from above, With all the world singing the Song of the May. Father most gracious, Father of all, Lo! I have heard Thee and answer Thy call, And kneel at Thy threshold, enraptured to be, Thy hand-maiden, Lord, and creator with thee. Refrain— Sing, let me sing in thanksgiving today, Sing on with nature in songs of the May, Sing on in chorus, ye mothers of men, Hosanna and Gloria, Praise and Amen! Lord, in Thy tenderness, Lord in Thy love, Mighty the trust Thou hast given to me, When out from the light of Thy Presence above, The souls of the children come winging from Thee. Father, most gracious, Father of all, Here at thy threshold, I answer Thy call, And sing as I pray to be worthy to be Thy hand-maiden, Lord, and creator with Thee. THE SINGING MOTHERS IN THE SALT LAKE TABERNACLE—APRIL 3, 1936 The Relief Society Magazine VOL. XXIII MAY, 1936 No. 5 The Present Duty of the Relief Society (Address Delivered at Relief Society Conference, Friday, April 3, 1936) By President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. MY Brothers and Sisters: It is indeed an honor to meet with you and to be asked to address you— you, the Relief Society, the first of the auxiliary organizations organized in the Church. I have enjoyed the services thus far, and I pray that during the time I may speak to you I shall be led by the spirit of the Lord to say to you such things as may be helpful to you and to me. I wish first to pay my tribute again to the Singing Mothers. I never hear them without enjoying them, and being grateful for them. I think the name itself—"Singing Mothers" —is a guerdon for the work which they are doing. It seems to me that of all of the high and lofty callings which the Lord has given to His children, none stand in the place or upon the heights where dwells Motherhood. As I philosophize to myself the meaning of Motherhood, what Mother does, first in building the tabernacle for the spirit, then rearing the tabernacle of the spirit after birth, when I think of the responsibility, the duty, and then the glory of Motherhood, I not only am lost in admiration for Mothers, but I thank God that to me has come something of the picture of what Motherhood means. The Mothers who sing, and who sing the Songs of Zion with prayerful hearts and in a spirit of worship, are not only themselves blessed, but they will bless their families, and through these blessings the Church itself is helped to grow and increase and fulfil the destiny which the Lord has marked out for His people. LAST evening I scanned the history of the organization of the Relief Society as given in the History of the Church. This Society is, I believe, the one auxiliary organization that was organized by the Prophet himself, and the records in the history of the Church indicate that the Prophet not only had great pride, but great interest also in the work which the sisters were to do. In these times of stress and strain, which so far as the Relief Society is concerned may become greater as the months wear on, almost infinitely greater, it seems to me that we might well refer to what the Prophet said regarding the organization of this great group, as it has now come to be, of women. He says in his record of March 24, 1842: "I attended by request, the Female Relief Society, whose object is the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes..." Continuing, and commenting upon those present at the meeting, he says: "There was a very numerous attendance at the organization of the society, and also at subsequent meetings, of some of our most intelligent, humane, philanthropic and respectable ladies; and we are well assured from a knowledge of those pure principles of benevolence that flow spontaneously from their humane and philanthropic bosoms, that with the resources they will have at command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; they will pour in oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice." The History of the Church records that the Prophet again visited the ladies in their organization under date of March 30, 1842. Sister Eliza R. Snow recorded the minutes of the meeting, and among the statements she records as having been made by the Prophet is the following: "This charitable Society is according to your natures, it is natural for females to have feelings of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms." I REPEAT that so far as one can humanly see, having in mind the withdrawal, as it seems now clear there will be, of that support which has come to people from Government sources, that the task to be placed upon the Church organizations in the near future will be greatly increased. Not a small part of your activities in the more recent past have been what I shall call "cultural." You have more or less taken on the attributes that are attached in the world to cultural clubs. The Lord has blessed you in your work. But it seems to me that now, and for the few on-coming months at least, you may be moving into a new world, a world that will call for the exercise of qualities and activities in a degree of intensity which you have not had for many years. Yours is a great duty and a great responsibility, and the Lord will expect you to fulfil it. It is my faith, as it is my prayer, that you will be able to meet the new tasks which will confront you, that you will bear the burden which will be placed upon you, and that the Lord will bring to you in your work those qualities which it is necessary you should have. If you are to do this work in accordance with His will there must come into your hearts love unbounded; there must flow through your souls charity, charity for the weaknesses of others, and as you will have observed, the weaknesses of others appear at no time so clearly and with so much force as in times of trouble and distress; it is in such times that lack of courage appears. It is then that defects of character are manifest; it is then that all of the unloveliness of human kind is likely to come to the fore. It will be the duty and obligation of the Relief Society in these coming months to bear all this with patience and with humility, not only bear, but forbear every duty. Every day should be approached with prayer in your hearts and a determination to see not the bad but the good, for there is no one born of woman who is so depraved that there is not in him or her something of good. It is the duty of the Relief Society and of every member thereof, diligently to look for, and earnestly to seek for that good. I WANT to refer to that old parable that is frequently referred to of the Good Samaritan, because there are certain things in it that I think fit our situation. It is recorded, as you know, in the tenth chapter of St. Luke: "And behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? "He said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou? "And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself. "And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right: this do, and thou shalt live. "But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbor? "And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. "And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. "And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him and passed by on the other side. "But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him. "And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. "And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves? "And he said, He that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise." HERE are two or three things I wish to get out of this parable this morning. In the first place the question was, "Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?" and the answer came in the parable of the Good Samaritan. There is the problem, there is the work, and there is the reward. In the next place there is a statement that they whose business it would seem it should have been to care for the poor and for the needy—first the Priest and then the Levite—seeing the man wounded and half dead, passed by on the other side, giving no succor and no relief. This could not be without condemnation to those whose business and whose duty it was. The Relief Society must see to it that they do not fall under the condemnation that came to the Priest and the Levite, that they perceiving someone in dire distress, shall not pass by on the other side. The Samaritan came to the rescue. And remember that those of Samaria, in the time of Jesus, were regarded as the poorest and most despicable of all of the neighbors of the Jews. There was between the Jew and the Samaritan a hatred as intense as ever existed between two peoples, and Jesus took as an illustration of those who might and who could render service, one of those who to the Jews was a stench and monstrosity; it was the Samaritan, the Priest and the Levite having gone by, who rendered the service. WE have been, my brothers and sisters, in times past, in the eyes of the world not so far removed from the position of the old Samaritan. We have labored under criticism, disdain, contempt, and the Lord has chosen us, and chosen you, the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to set an example to the world in these hours of stress as to what should be done to care for the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted, those in distress. This is your prime duty, all others, as I see it, fade into the distant background at the present time; and your duty must be, as was the duty of the Samaritan of old. You must not only bind up the wounds as they exist, but you must see to it that those who are in sorrow and dire straits shall be taken care of until they shall be fully recovered. And if you will do this you will literally, my brothers and sisters, literally become an ensign to the world, and this Church has never had such glory come to it as will be its glory if you shall fully perform your duties in these respects. MAY the Lord give unto you His power and His spirit. May He clothe you with humility, and dress you in charity and love. May He be with you always in this great work which you have, perhaps there is none greater at the present moment, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. The Mother of Nancy By Vesta P. Crawford MARGARET DALE, matron of the Children's Aid Society, had forgotten everything but the May morning. She stood at the south window looking out on the sloping lawn to a shining spot where pink and yellow tulips bordered the flagstone walk. The tulips were fresh and new budded, fluted, and dusted with dew. The woman caught her breath suddenly. "Chalice cups," she whispered, "perhaps the Holy Grail was like a tulip cup." As she turned back toward the desk, her thin white hand held back the ruffled curtain and sunlight flooded into the room. It was a long room with ivory colored woodwork and a glowing waxed floor. A pleasant room, thought Margaret Dale. And it was her planning and her skillful manipulation of the Aid budget that had made it so. Her consultation desk stood in front of the east windows and there was a tapestry covered chair beside it. Margaret Dale sat there in the sunshine but her eyes were not on the papers before her. "Well, what's on the docket?" A brisk voice came from the hallway. Margaret turned slowly. She looked at Eva Stratton, a tall woman in her late twenties. Her eyes were black and a little too shining. But her hair was lovely, coal black except for one lock of gray on the right side. She wore a black crepe dress with white linen collar and cuffs. Black is too efficient looking and too sombre, thought Margaret. "Who is our first client this morning?" the quick voice repeated. Eva Stratton stood poised, ready for the day's first "case." "A Mrs. Wilton wants to adopt a six-year-old girl." Margaret's eyes encountered bravely the hard black ones. "Oh. One of those particular kind, this Mrs. Wilton. I suppose a five-year-old wouldn't do." "Mrs. Wilton's voice sounded throaty over the telephone, but nice." Margaret walked slowly to the window again. The tulips still flaunted springtime, poised springtime. "You know, Eva, picking out a child is such a difficult situation." "Difficult? The child is already here. I don't see anything difficult in that." Margaret turned slowly and the sunlight flamed on her orchid wool dress and fell in lighted arcs on the lace collar. "Eva," she said, "we must remember the great responsibility of "matching." The mother and child must be suited to each other. It's a heart situation—linking of hearts." Eva opened the top drawer of the file case and took out a long folder. "Well, in your thirty years of Children's Aid you've had so many cases that this one more won't make much difference." The older woman thought of that long procession of children who had for a time been hers and all the women who had come wanting them. "You know, Eva, every time a woman comes I wonder why she wants a child. Her particular reason." "How do you find that out?" "Sometimes I don't find out." "Well, just so she wants a child. Goodness knows, we have plenty of them." THE doorbell rang and Miss Stratton opened the door. She held out her hand to a slender woman in a navy blue suit. Something over forty. One of the teary kind, thought Eva. But neat and she had good taste. Money, too. Her wide-brimmed blue hat was circled around the crown with a band of twisted white satin and there were white buttons on the suit. "Mrs. Wilton?" The woman nodded. "I am Miss Stratton. The matron will handle your case." "Take this chair by the window," Margaret Dale invited. "Did you see the tulips as you came in?" "Oh, yes. Tulips are lovelier than ever this year and earlier, too." Margaret glanced at her papers. "I understand, Mrs. Wilton, that you want to adopt a six-year-old girl." "I'd like to take a little girl to see if we could love each other." So she understood, thought Margaret. She knew about heart linking. Margaret's violet eyes softened and she began to think of the little girls who at that moment were at their lessons, not knowing, of course, what was being planned for them. "You may take one of the girls you like and try her out. But don't expect too much at first. Love, you know, has to grow." "I know. But then how it grows! And not anything can be like it. Not anything." The telephone rang in an inner office and Miss Stratton answered it. Presently she came back. "I beg your pardon, Miss Dale. Someone wants you." Margaret seemed to have forgotten such things as telephones and cases. She stood up slowly. "Perhaps, Miss Stratton, you would like to talk with Mrs. Wilton a minute or two. I'll be right back." Eva Stratton sat very straight in the chair and followed along down the typed page with her pencil. "Where was I? Oh, yes. Now Mrs. Wilton, just what type of child would you like?" "One who stands with her lips parted and a shining face when she hears music." Miss Stratton frowned. "I mean what physical type, complexion, and so forth." "I am not particular about that. Only if you have one with pale gold curls." "Well, so many want curls. Most any of them could take a permanent." A woman like that deserved something snappy by way of retort, thought Eva. But Mrs. Wilton had not noticed. "And little long fingers," she was saying, "so that she could play a violin." A light flamed in the blue eyes, her eager lips parted. "We have two rather robust children," Miss Stratton said. "Good solid nerves. There's one slender child, not so strong, nervous and makes poor group adjustments." Just then Margaret closed the door of the inner office and came back to her desk. "Miss Stratton, will you please bring Jane in." Eva walked quickly down the hall and the matron turned again to Mrs. Wilton. The woman's slender fingers lay on the desk. "Miss Dale," she said, "I want to ask you something that I think you'll understand. What kind of thoughts do these children have?" A far-away look came into Margaret's face. "We never get close enough to these children to even guess their thoughts. Only a mother can do that." "I know." Miss Stratton came back with a chubby child. "This is Jane," she said. The child's unlighted black eyes looked solemnly at Mrs. Wilton. "Have you a dolly?" asked the woman. "Two. I don't break my dolls." "She never breaks anything," said Miss Stratton, "and she knows how to set the table already." Margaret noticed that finally the woman's eyes shifted to the window. The black-eyed child was taken away and another brought in. "This is Phyllis." Obediently, Mrs. Wilton looked at the child. She was a small girl with blue eyes and brown hair. She stood on one foot and turned the ends of her collar around her fingers. Mrs. Wilton looked out of the window again, then she turned to Phyllis and said, "Some little girls think that tulips are the cups of springtime and the sun pours warmth into them. What flowers do you like, my dear, nasturtiums?" "I like all flowers. But the best are violets. They're so little and afraid." When Miss Stratton had taken Phyllis out, Mrs. Wilton said slowly, "She has nice thoughts, that little girl. But she hasn't any freckles. I would like a little girl with freckles on her nose." Margaret said, "That little girl needs loving. She has been with us a long time." Eva came again. The child with her was tall and thin. Suddenly Mrs. Wilton raised her eyes and looked intently at the little girl. Clear blue eyes looked straight into clear blue eyes. The child pushed back her pale gold hair with a little long hand. The woman stood up and moved eagerly toward the little girl. She stroked her hair and turned her face upwards. Then her fingers touched the freckled nose. "What is your name?" "Nancy." The woman trembled and her hand caught the desk. "Oh," she said, "your name is Nancy." "I like it," said the child, "don't you?" "Yes, I do. It's my favorite name. Only I * * * " Mrs. Wilton turned away quickly. With trembling hands she picked up her bag and gloves. "I'm sorry, Miss Dale. I have to go. I'll telephone later. I didn't know it would be like this." SHE was gone. They heard a motor turn. Margaret Dale stood again at the window. She looked at the tulips and thought once more of chalice cups and cups for sunshine. The freshness of spring welled up against the window. The shadowed patterns of leaves moved back and forth across the pane. Color, warmth, new life, May. Miss Stratton had taken Nancy out of the room. Now she gathered up the papers on the desk and put them back into the file case. "Well, I guess that's the last we'll see of Mrs. Wilton," she commented. "A good thing, too. Not the kind to handle children. But she's gone for good." "No," said Margaret Dale. "She will come back when the healing is over." "What healing?" But Margaret was thinking of many things. She was thinking about the linking of hearts and about mothers and little girls. Eva Stratton was about to say something about hens that had never had any chicks of their own. Then Margaret turned from the window and her eyes were wet with tears. Eva said, "Don't take it so hard. These women who have never had any children of their own are particular about what they want. Never having had any of their own." But Margaret did not hear. She sat down uncertainly in the tapestry chair and fingered a blue opalescent vase on the desk. Then she looked at the door Mrs. Wilton had closed so quietly. "I wonder when her own little girl died," she said. TIRED MOTHER By Elsie E. Barrett A tired Mother So shaky and worn With wrinkled fingers From tasks she has borne. Tired shoulders Forlornly they sag, And tired footsteps That wearily lag. Those tired eyelids Have hidden the tears When heart of sorrow Was burdened with fears. Her tired body So loyal and true, Has suffered aching No one ever knew. Undaunted spirit On God still depends With prayers so faithful Till Life's journey ends. MAKE EVERY DAY "CHILD HEALTH DAY" To Preserve Children—Take: One large grassy field Half a dozen children Two or three small dogs A pinch of brook and pebbles Mix children and dogs well together, and put them in the field Stirring constantly—Pour brook over pebbles—Sprinkle field With flowers—Spread over all a deep blue sky and bake in the sun When brown—Remove and set to cool in a bath tub. Mothers of Men A Pageant For Mother's Day By Mary P. Curtis CHARACTERS READER PILGRIM MOTHER EVE LUCY MACK REBECCA NANCY HANKS SARIAH PIONEER MOTHER MARY MOTHER OF TODAY STAGE SETTING Any background could be used. Draped curtains would be most effective. A large book, closed, five feet six inches high is in center of stage. Cover may be as elaborate as desired, pages of brown wrapping paper. As the reader turns the pages the characters step out and stand just in front of book as she speaks, forming semicircle on each side of book. MUSIC While Eve and Rebecca speak the "Largo" is played very softly on the organ. While Sariah speaks "Guide Us O Thou Great Jehovah" is played. While Mary speaks "Silent Night" is played, changing back to "The Largo" for the Pilgrim. While Lucy Mack speaks "Praise to the Man Who Communed with Jehovah" is played, with "Largo" again for Nancy Hanks. "Come, Come Ye Saints" is played while the Pioneer Mother speaks and while the Mother of Today speaks "The Old Refrain" is played. After the Epilogue, while the characters are still standing "Mother O' Mine" by Rudyard Kipling is sung by a soloist. COSTUMES EVE is dressed in a white robe with trailing vines of green ivy leaves to resemble fig leaves and she has leaves in her hair. REBECCA is dark and wears a costume of ancient times with bracelets on her arms and chains about her neck. She wears a scarf on her head in turban style and has a pitcher or jar on her shoulder. SARIAH wears a costume of ancient style but it is brown and she wears a band around her forehead. MARY wears a pale blue robe with blue veil on her hair and carries a lily. PILGRIM MOTHER wears black dress with white cap and white kerchief crossed over her breast. LUCY MACK wears a small white bonnet and a large white apron that ties around her waist. She should look old. NANCY HANKS should be slender and with a kind and spiritual face. Her hair is smoothed back with a coil at back. She wears a full skirt, faded and old looking. PIONEER MOTHER wears a large full skirt and a basque with a sunbonnet. MOTHER OF TODAY wears costume of today. READER wears costume of today. READER: The influence of woman cannot be overestimated. Never did a great man live but some woman, either mother, wife or sister was an effective instrument in shaping the events of his life. I have here a book containing the sketches of some of the women whose power has been great in moulding the destiny of men and nations. As I turn the pages they will speak for themselves. I am Eve, the mother of all mankind. I dwelt with Adam in the Garden of Eden and walked and talked with God. Of all the wondrous fruit that grew in the garden, God said we might partake freely except the fruit of the one tree that grew in the middle of the garden. Of this fruit we were forbidden to eat. I have received much criticism throughout the ages because I did partake of this forbidden fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil. But I transgressed this commandment of the Father knowingly in order to fulfill a higher law. God's first great commandment to us was to multiply and replenish the earth. Had we not fallen we would not have had children and we would have remained in the garden in innocence and ignorance forever. True, we were driven from our beautiful home because of our transgression, but we were now given the opportunity to subdue the earth and have dominion over it and reap the fruits of our labors. We had lived in innocence, keeping a garden that was already perfect. Now we experienced joy because we felt sorrow, we could appreciate the sweet because we had tasted the bitter, we knew comfort because we suffered pain, we enjoyed rest because we performed labor. Life was hard for us because we had many things to learn, but when I looked into the face of my first little boy, I knew I was glad of things as they were. I could see though, as my children grew older, that there would be trouble between them. Cain had a harsh, envious disposition and he always held hard feelings toward his brother Abel. And when one day in a fit of jealous anger, he slew Abel, I thought my punishment was almost more than I could bear. However, I was later comforted by the birth of other children who were a joy to me and beloved by God. And when my days and years were many and I was ready to go down into my grave, my heart was comforted, for I knew that the ways of God were just. I knew that in the meridian of time a Savior would come into the world to redeem mankind from our fall. Reader turns page and Rebecca is there. I am Rebecca, the mother of Israel. I spent my girlhood in Haran in the land of Mesopotamia, with my mother and my brother Laban, who was also my guardian, because of my father's death when I was a child. One evening after I had become a young woman when I, with many other damsels had gone down to the wells at the gates of the city to draw water, as was our custom, a stranger who had traveled from afar came and asked a drink from us. The other damsels refused haughtily, but a strange feeling seemed to possess me and I chided them for their selfishness and gave drink to the stranger and drew water that his camels might be refreshed also. Then he asked me whose daughter I was and he was much rejoiced when I told him to what house I belonged. He then said that the Lord had chosen me to be the wife of his master's son, Isaac, and had given a sign unto him. Then he gave me beautiful jewels and he told me of his master Abraham, who was my father's kinsman, who had left this land long ago. In my country many were worshipers of idols, even my brother, Laban had idols. But I, like my father who was dead, worshiped the true God I had heard much talk of Abraham, of his worship and his prosperity and of the blessings that had been promised him. A great joy filled my being and an intense desire to be a partaker of these blessings also. So I led the stranger to my mother's house where there was plenty of room for him and both straw and provender for his camels. My mother and brother welcomed him warmly and he told them of Abraham and Sarah and of his mission in our land. It was left for me to decide whether or not I should go with the stranger; with a great joy in my heart I departed with him the next day. When I saw Isaac I loved him for he was stalwart and handsome, and he loved me. After several years twin boys were born to us and we named the elder Esau and the younger Jacob. Isaac loved Esau and I loved Jacob. Esau grew up to be a cunning hunter but rough and harsh, and Jacob became a shepherd, quiet and gentle. The word of the Lord came to me that two peoples should spring from my sons. One people should be stronger than the other and the older should serve the younger. I was glad in my heart for it was as I wished. Esau took for himself wives from among the Canaanite people who, like Hagar, were of the lineage who could not hold the priesthood of God. So Esau threw away his birthright as the promises to Abraham could not be fulfilled through his seed. At last Isaac became old and grew blind and feeble and he wished to give Esau his rightful blessing. Isaac was only to be an instrument of God in pronouncing the blessing upon Esau and I knew this blessing belonged to Jacob. So I had Jacob go to his father and deceive him, which could be done because of his blindness. Jacob hesitated greatly at doing this but I insisted that he should receive the birthright blessing. It was God's blessing and God could not be deceived. My plan succeeded and Isaac pronounced the first blessing upon the head of Jacob under divine inspiration. I knew the purpose of the Lord had been accomplished. Then as I became old there was great satisfaction in my heart for I saw that Jacob was the chosen one and I had been an instrument in God's hands in obtaining the blessing for the one to whom it rightly belonged. Reader turns page and finds Sariah. I am Sariah, mother of the American remnant of the house of Joseph. My early home was in Jerusalem and we lived there in much comfort and luxury for my husband was blessed with an abundance of worldly goods. It was a great trial to me and to all of my family when we were called by the Lord to leave our beautiful home and all that was dear to us and journey out into the wilderness. But the life of my husband had been threatened many times because he taught righteousness, and the Lord showed him in a vision the destruction of Jerusalem. Although I had great faith in the Lord and trusted my husband implicitly, it was not until my boys returned from Jerusalem the second time with the plates of Laban which they had been sent to obtain, that I really felt reconciled to our journey into the unknown. We were called to pass through many trials and hardships and many times my heart yearned for our old home again. Often our food ran out and we subsisted for days at a time on berries and fruits which we found along the way. Each day's journey was long and hard and there was continual trial from the complaints and murmurings of some of our people. But it seemed the limit of our endurance was reached when, after wandering in the wilderness for eight long years, we reached the sea and it was made known to us that we must build a boat and cross this vast expanse of water. My boys, Laman and Lemuel, were a continual source of worry to their father and me, for they were always wanting to turn back and they forever blamed their father and their brother, Nephi, for everything that went wrong or did not please them. Their hearts were not all bad but sometimes it seemed as though the evil one had a very strong hold upon them. After being upon the water many days, during which time it seemed that all the powers of darkness were doing their utmost to destroy us and when we had almost despaired of ever setting our feet upon land again, we came to a most beautiful and inviting shore. We lifted up our voices in joy and thanksgiving that we had been led away from the land of iniquity to this beautiful place. We very soon discovered that it truly was a land of promise, for we found there everything that our hearts could desire. The weather was warm and pleasant and we found many curious fruits which were desirable for food. We found many beasts that would be useful to us. The soil was very fertile so that when we sowed our crops we reaped abundant harvests. We explored the wilderness and discovered rich ores in the rocks, and of the gold Nephi was commanded to make plates upon which he kept a record of our people. For a time it seemed that all our difficulties and troubles were over and we felt that the Lord had indeed blessed us. But before long dissensions broke out again. Laman and Lemuel and their followers were again rebellious and the feeling between the two groups became so bitter that they decided to separate and each follow their own way. This proved to be a better arrangement, but there was always enmity between the two. And the followers of Laman and Lemuel did not serve the Lord nor keep His commandments. Although my heart ached for my wayward children, I knew that the work of the Lord would go on. I knew that there must be a divine purpose in this divinely guided pilgrimage, and I was proud to be the mother of the great and mighty people that my family was destined to become. Reader turns page and discovers Mary. I am Mary, the mother of Jesus, the Redeemer of the world. Through me all motherhood is honored, and by my part in the eternal plan, reverence has come to all womankind. My joys have been greater and my sorrows deeper than those of any other mother upon earth. I have known the brightest sunshine and the darkest shadows, the highest pride and the humblest resignation. My Baby was born in a manger and died upon a cross, yet the years between these two events were so filled with sacred teachings and sublime example that they light the way for all the ages. His words were the simplest, yet the wisest that were ever spoken. His parables are still told to little children and to learned men. Scholars and scientists wonder at His miracles. And yet, from his earliest childhood, through the tragedy of his death, his tenderest thoughts and most considerate actions were for me. He was the Savior of the world, and He was a glorious Son of a worshipful mother. Reader turns page and finds the Pilgrim Mother. I am the Pilgrim Mother. I came with my husband across the trackless 284 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ocean to make a home in a new and strange world, where we could. Teach our children as we saw fit. Many are the hardships I passed through and many the trials I endured, that they might have this heritage of liberty. We lived in constant fear of attack by the Indians, the winters were bitter cold with starvation staring us in the face. We saw our loved ones sicken and die without proper help and care. But the lessons of hard work, privation and endurance developed rugged men and women, for my children builded well. They laid the foundation of a nation which has preserved to posterity the freedom and opportunities for which we left our native land. Reader turns page and finds Lucy Mack Smith. I am Lucy Mack, mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith. When my third little baby was born, two days before Christmas of a very cold winter, little did I dream that he would prove to be one of the greatest men ever to live upon the earth. Never did I think that his name would be known for good and evil all over the world. We gave him his father's name, for it was a good name that had never been tarnished by an evil deed. And he grew to be like his father, large and vigorous and possessed of much strength. He early learned the sterling qualities of truth, honesty and virtue. For a time after our marriage we were well off but reverses came to us and my children all had to learn to work hard, in the field or wherever else they could, for it was necessary for them to help earn. The daily living. I think the Lord had a hand in our misfortunes, because it taught us to be humble. Hard work ° strengthened our bodies and sacrifices strengthened our souls. Joseph grew to be a thoughtful boy, and when he was fourteen years old at the time of the great religious revivals, he was large for his age and very serious minded. He had taken to reading his Bible a great deal and it seemed that religion had a very strong hold on him. He was uneasy in his mind however and even after the older members of our family had joined the churches they thought were right, he was still unconvinced. Then came his glorious vision. From the first I knew that my boy spoke the truth. He was never given to wild imaginings and I had never known him to tell a falsehood. It seemed from then on that if possible I loved him more than ever. He was never thoughtless of my comfort like the other children were at times and I can never remember his speaking unkindly to me. And many times when the others had gone off for their own pleasures he lingered behind to do some little chore for me or some helpful thing about the house. So my whole being thrilled when I knew he was chosen of the Lord to do a mighty work, and when his great mission began there was never a doubt in my heart that everything he said was true and everything he did was right. But never again was I entirely happy. I was always conscious of the shadow of impending tragedy. No matter how tall and strong he grew to be and no matter how glorious the work in which he was engaged, he was still my little boy and I loved him very tenderly. Gradually I began to fear he would be called on to lay down his life for the work as so many good men had done before him, and I continually prayed that it would be made as easy for him as possible. And when the end came, I knew that his work had been done gloriously and well and I knew the Lord had answered my prayer, for though he was scorned by men he was loved and honored by God. MOTHERS OF MEN 285 Reader turns page and finds Nancy Hanks. I am Nancy Hanks, mother of Abraham Lincoln. My lot in life was hard, my horizon was narrow and my opportunities restricted. My life was one of toil and poverty for I worked both in the house and out of doors, and surely no one would have predicted that my name would come to be known and reverenced from ocean to ocean. After we were married, I taught my husband to read and write for his opportunities had been fewer than mine. And later I taught my children. I believe the things I taught them were of more value to them than the instruction they received in the poor schools they were able to attend now and then. Abraham especially, never tired of studying, and after I had taught him to read, boy though he was, I tried with all my might to instill into him the love of good books. And in this I think I was entirely successful. While still a very young boy he acquired that kindness of heart and gentleness of manner that always mark one of God's true noblemen, qualities which stayed with him till the end of his life. Although our home was of the humblest and we were all acquainted with the hardest work, there was much love among us. And love always has a good and lasting influence upon the life of a child. It develops sweetness and thoughtfulness for others and the joy of service. I was not permitted to stay with my little boy very long, only nine short years. But in that time much valuable seed was planted that bore glorious fruit during his later life. High honors came to him and he was numbered with the greatest men of the earth. But always he remembered me and many were the tributes that in later life he paid to my memory. Nearly half a century after I had gone away he said with tears in his eyes, "All that I am and all that I hope to be, I owe to my angel mother." My life on earth was comparatively short but through the love which he inspired in the hearts of his people, my name shall never die. Reader turns page and finds Pioneer Mother. I am the Pioneer Mother. I left the outskirts of civilization behind and with my husband, pushed out across the prairies to find a new home. For days and days we traveled across the broad plains, with only the wide sweep of earth and sky before us. Much of the way I traveled in a covered wagon behind a team of plodding oxen. I held my babies close by me to keep them safe while my husband walked beside the slow oxen in order to prod them along. And again I walked and pushed a hand cart which contained all we could bring with us. Many times we sang as we walked along and many times our hearts were breaking at the memory of what we had left behind and the dread of what the future might hold. Sometimes the evenings were gay with music and dancing and sometimes our bodies were so exhausted from our long day's march that we scarcely had strength to prepare our evening meal. But through all our toil and trials our hearts beat high with hope, for our sacrifices were made for the privilege of worshiping God and transmitting to our children a life free from persecution and violence. And the joy that was ours when our journey was through fully compensated us for all the tribulations we endured. We looked out upon the valley that was to be our home 286 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and though it was dry and barren, we thanked God that our lives had been spared. But then our work began in earnest. We had houses to build and fields and gardens to plow and the precious seeds which we had carried so carefully with us all the long way, must be planted, and the hundreds of things incident to beginning life in a new country, must be done. At first we barely had enough to eat. We learned to prepare thistles and roots and wild plants for food as well as to gather the wild fruits and berries with which the hills and canyons abounded. Many were the things we learned to do without and the things we needed most we made for ourselves. But we knew the Lord had blessed us and would continue to bless us and we thanked Him that we had been privileged to leave the old scenes of violence and bloodshed and come to a new country to build up a new Zion. The fine young men and women who are the youth of Zion today are payment a thousand fold for the hardships we endured during those early years. Reader turns page and finds. The Mother of Today, I am the Mother of Today. My motherhood has not yet become history. It is for me to nurture the men/and women of tomorrow. I instill into the hearts of my children the love of humanity and the will to serve, the desire to aid in bringing peace, to all nations and brotherhood among men. 'Their aspirations and accomplishments will be inspired by the songs I sing to them, the stories I tell them, and the games I teach them to play around my feet: also, by the thoughts and ideals I create in their minds as they become older. My sons and daughters will overcome time and eliminate space to serve their ends. They will harness the elements, the sun and the oceans, and make them their servants. They will make great scientific discoveries that will aid the course of civilization, and make life easier and fuller. They will make great strides in the study of medicine and surgery so that life may be prolonged and disease and suffering largely overcome. New plans will be made so that social conditions will be perfected.. There will be no poor. Housing conditions will be improved and everyone will have a comfortable home. The world will be made a safer place to live in, with almost no accidents, and the work of the world will be done for the satisfaction and joy of accomplishment and the benefit of humanity. And through my inspiration and teachings, men's hearts will become purer and more spiritual, thus making the earth a better place. For the children of men. READER: And so the years roll by and time slips into eternity. Each age produces its great men, all bearing the mark and influence of the mothers who reared them, each playing his part and passing on. But of all the gifts and blessings that a woman bestows upon her children the greatest of all is Mother Love. Motherhood Prays By Ann Jarvis (The heart of motherhood is universally the same) A SONNET TRIO Prayer of a Pioneer Mother This day I rise in thanks to Thee, kind Lord, Our Guide and our Protector in sore trials: Through territory almost unexplored, In safety Thou hast led us endless miles To found a home within these mountain vales. By faith, dear Father, Thou hast led me on Past that dim valley where, alone, Man fails, Making us one with Thee through this, our son. O God in Heaven, my joy knows no bounds, My heart sings with these streams, these waterfalls, Soaring beyond the high range which surrounds The peaceful beauty of Thy temple halls. May love of Thee and Home, this ecstasy, Bless all our children's lives—not die with me. Prayer of a Mother, Bereaved Forgive these welled-up tears within, dear Father, These fevered tears which will not be controlled; These cries of anguish which I dare not utter, Lest they who hear refuse to be consoled. O God, I must be brave for those I love— I must live on though I were better dead, To cheer and comfort him who, pain-racked, strove To bear his share of sorrow by this bed. Thy Gift of wee arms twining round our hearts Unites us all throughout Eternity. Secure with Thee in Immortality He lives; This hope-fulfilling thought of thoughts— Our child who was with me is now with Thee— Transcends the bond of human sympathy. 288 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Youth's Prayer to Life Humbly I kneel before Thee, my Creator, With quickened childish faith, with sense of awe, For I perceive that Thou art even greater Than I had known. Besides the Light and Law Which I have worshipped since my days began, Thou art that powerful force called Life and Love, The same God who commanded that first man And woman to be fruitful from above. Life, lend me courage that I may obey, Give me the fortitude Eve must have had. God, let me rise with each new dawning day Nearer to Thee. This boon will make me glad— Even if I should taste of lingering death, Still would I give another soul Life's breath. YOU ARE HIS WHOM YOU LIST TO OBEY By David R. Lyon In the struggle and turmoil of life, When the tempter would lead you astray, Bear in mind in the midst of the strife You are his whom you list to obey. Do you know in whose service you work? Do you know from whom you get pay? If you labor with might, or you shirk, You are his whom you list to obey. If you labor for Christ and His church, And walk in the straight narrow way, You will ne'er be left in the lurch— You are his whom you list to obey. % If you labor for things of the earth, Ever striving for things that decay, Neglecting the things of real worth, You are his whom you list to obey. On the Trails of the Old Kaibab By Elsie C. Carroll OR miles the bus had scudded along the oiled road stretching like an endless black snake through the Arizona desert. Then it began to climb up the Colorado Plateau. As the heat of the desert was left behind, Helen Latimer began to feel the lure and mystery of this new country. It was pushing into the background of her consciousness that spectre of disillusionment and domestic tragedy which had so recently come into her life, and it was bringing back forgotten stories of the West her father had told her long ago. She leaned forward and touched the bus-driver's arm. "Ts this the Kaibab Forest?" "Not yet, Miss. We're going up La Fever Ridge now. The Kaibab is on top, near the rim of the Grand Canyon. This your first trip?" "Yes. But I've heard so much about the country—the Buckskin Mountains, Jacob's Lake, V. T. Park, House Rock Valley, Kaibab trails, that it seems I should know it. It means more to me than to the ordinary tourist." "Yes?" The young driver turned to look at her. "You're from Chicago, aren't you? Some of your friends been out?" "Ye-e-s-." She offered nothing more, recalling a determination of her childhood to come West incognito when she was grown and search out puzzling things about her father's life—and death. Aunt Nettie had pretty well squelched those romantic plans, and had convinced her of the foolishness of her vague belief that she might be the owner I of the lands and cattle. Still the lure of the old desires had remained, and when she had faced the wreck of her matrimonial venture and the need to find a new perspective on life, those forgotten dreams had beckoned her. Now she was actually coming into her father's world—the only world, she had long known, that had ever really meant anything to him, even during the years he had abandoned it after that cattle-selling trip to Chicago which had culminated in his romantic meeting with her mother and their impetuous marriage. The details of this part of his story she had heard frequently from Aunt Nettie. She also had thrilling memories of visits from her father, after her mother's death, happy hours when sitting on his knee, she had listened to songs and stories about campfires, dogs, coyotes, and great stretches of blue sky which she would see when she was old enough to go with him. There had always been a glamour for her in the mere thought of the West. She often tried to picture the life she would have led in this land, had her father lived. She recalled that day nearly twelve years ago, which brought the brief message of his tragic death. He had been riding along a trail of the Grand Canyon when his horse had slipped and they had both crashed to instant death. She had begged Aunt Nettie to bring her out to see if they could not recover the body and take it back to rest beside her mother's. Now 290 she realized that the canyon he had loved was a more fitting resting place. It was all just as her father had pictured: endless stretches of blue sky, oceans of pines and quaking aspens, and over all a brooding presence which seemed to enfold her with a vague sweet mystery. The bus turned into the clearing at Jacob's Lake and the passengers hurried to the lodge near the filling station for sandwiches and drinks. As they were about to get into the bus again, the driver spoke to Helen. "You see that point over there? It's just this side of V. T. Park. We are in the Kaibab Forest now." She thrilled as they passed through the cool shade of the tall timber, catching frequent glimpses of deer, bounding among the trees. No wonder her father had returned like a homing pigeon to this land which had produced him. NGINE trouble delayed the party so they did not reach V. T. Park until after dark, though they were scheduled to be there at five o'clock and to reach Bright Angel Point for dinner at six. As they rolled down into Pleasant Valley, the lights from the V. T. Hotel, gleamed in the distance and Helen became excited. Perhaps at this very place she might meet someone who had known her father. "The schedule calls for a short stop here," said the driver, '"'but it's too late now to see anything. Maybe you'd rather go on to Bright Angel after I get some gas. You can stop here on our way back." "How far is it to Bright Angel Point?" the fat man on the rear seat wanted to know. "I'm starved." "It's only eighteen miles." "Isn't it here they have such interesting programs?" one of the lady RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pedagogues behind Helen asked. "They have swell programs at all the stopping places," the driver replied. "You can't beat the show they put on at Bright Angel. Most of the hash-slingers and garage fellows are professional entertainers." "But it isn't professional entertainment we're interested in," objected one of the school teachers. "We can get that at home. Some one told us that at this V. T. Place they have genuine cowboys who sing and tell stories and that there's a quaint old mountain scout who knows wonderful Indian legends. "Uncle Billy, Crossly," the driver laughed. "He's—what you call it— quaint enough. And what he doesn't know about the Indians and the early cattle kings he lets his imagination fill in. He used to pal around with Uncle Jim Owens and other interesting characters of the old days." Jim Owens. Helen was sure she had heard that name from her father. "I should like to stop here too," she said quickly. "If you'd all like to, we could stop for the V. T. Program and then drive on out to the lodge." There was general assent and the driver pulled over near the hotel. "What's your program tonight, Wood?" he called to a man who opened the door. "Uncle Billy on?" The name Crossly had been tantalizing Helen, and now she remembered: That was the name signed to the letter about her father's death. "Yes, and we have some special numbers from the Kaibab Buckaroos who are going to play for the dance. Then there's a talk from a university prof. On the botany of the Buckskin, and a stunt or two. Afterwards of course, the usual hoedown." The tourists began to climb out. "The Buckaroos are just tuning up." Russell added as the company ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB came into the lobby. He nodded toward a door at their left. Helen looked into the immense log room from which came the sound of voices mingled with the strumming of banjos and guitars. Most of the bus party crowded around the lunch counter, but she was fascinated by this entertainment hall. A log fire burned in a great open fireplace. The walls were hung with bright navajo rugs, deer heads and cougar skins. Over the mantel was a painting of the Grand Canyon; in one corner was a cabinet filled with Indian relics. Groups of people laughed and chatted. On a platform five young men in leather chaps, bright flannel shirts and silk neckerchiefs, sat on tree stumps, singing cowboy ballads to banjo accompaniment. A group of tourists near the fireplace was absorbed in a wiry little man with white hair and mustache, brown leathery skin, and darting black eyes. Helen's breath quickened. Even before Wood Russell spoke, she knew this man was Uncle Billy Crossly, a comrade of her father's. "Would you like to go in and meet some of these people?" the genial young proprietor asked. "The rest of your party will come when they have finished eating." "Is that animated old man there by the fire your Uncle Billy Crossly?" "Good guess," laughed Russell. "Uncle Billy's getting a great rep. You tourists are spoiling him though. He almost feels that it was him instead of God that made the Buckskin Mountains and the Grand Canyon." He led her to the group by the fire. "Uncle Billy, here's a young lady who's heard of you from afar and has come miles to meet you. Uncle Billy Crossly, the famous mountain scout, Miss—excuse me I didn't get your name." "Mrs. Latimer." The old man got to his feet and peered at her. Helen thought his expression changed. Did she remind him of her father? Her red hair and her mouth were like his, but the likeness must be stronger than she had thought, if this old man who didn't know she was Sam Huntsman's daughter noticed it. "Uncle Billy," Russell continued, "is a man of two generations. He knows all that's going on now, and he knows more about Indians and cowpunchers of the past than any man in the West." "You don't want to pay no attention to what Wood says," the old fellow chuckled. "I ain't half as notorious as he makes out. But I do enjoy spinnin' yarns about this great old country. Won't you join our circle, Miss?" He introduced her to the others in the group and drew a chair for her. Helen extended her hand. The Buckaroos suddenly began singing about "Rattlesnake Joe and his Strawberry Roan," and all eyes were turned in their direction. "Did I understand Wood to say you was Mrs. Latimer?" Uncle Billy asked Helen when the song ended. "Yes. Mrs. George Latimer." She wasn't yet ready to make known that she was also a Huntsman. "You look young to be a missus, and I thought—well for a minute you reminded me of someone I used to know." "That's interesting. I've never in my life been mistaken for another person." She was trembling with excitement. "Oh, I didn't really take you for somebody else. You just made me think of someone. Your red hair and something about your eyes and chin." Then he had known her father. "You've been here on the mountain a long time, haven't you?" She must keep him talking. "A long time as you young folks reckon it. I used to ride the trails of old Kaibab with my father fifty years ago—long before anybody had discovered that the Grand Canyon was anything but a big crack in the earth. And I used to spend weeks at a time with Uncle Jim Owens, and more'n once when I was a kid, I helped him tree his cougars. When I was older, he got to depending on me quite a lot. I had some mighty interesting experiences at his camp. I recollect one that happened about forty years ago when me and a youngster a little younger'n me—by the way it was the chap you made me think of—was stayin' with Uncle Jim for a few days. This other kid, Sam Huntsman, had just come out from Texas." Helen leaned forward breathlessly, but the story was cut short by Wood Russell's announcement, "Uncle Billy Crossly will now tell one of his famous Indian legends." Excusing himself the old scout walked to the platform. His short legs were stiff with age and bowed from long years in the saddle; yet he walked with as much of a swagger as did the young buckaroos who were coming down into the hall. "Wood here said I'd tell a Indian story," he began. "But instead I'm goin' to tell a cougar story that has just come to my mind. You've all heard of Uncle Jim Owens who used to live out here in Wooley's Canyon with his blooded dogs and do the unbelievingest things that ever happened out of books. Well, I used to stay with Uncle Jim and help him. One time, another feller and me was at his camp when something happened that proves that all that's been wrote and told about the old trapper ain't stretched none. The day I'm thinkin' about, this pal, Sam Huntsman and me went out with Uncle Jim to look for cougar tracks near some of his snares. We found two sets of tracks, and Sam and me begged Uncle Jim to let us follow one of them. He warned us not to go far, and told us what to do in case we met up with a cougar." Helen followed eagerly. Uncle Billy made his narrative dramatic, heroizing the old trapper who came to the rescue of the amateurs just in time to save them from death. As the old scout came down from the stage, he was intercepted by a group of tourists at the other end of the room from Helen. She was disappointed, but soon became interested in other people about her. There were besides the tourists, little groups of young people—cowboys, waitresses, road workers, forest rangers. Her own bus party were sitting near the door which led to the lobby. Presently one of them, a Miss Fitzgerald from Utica with whom Helen had become friendly during the trip, crossed to her. "Isn't this interesting?" she gushed. "I've never seen such a quaint, unusual gathering before in my life. The bus driver was just telling us that people come here from all over the mountain for these entertainments. Such unique characters! See that handsome young giant over there in the beaded buckskin vest. He's a young cattle owner, Heyden, the best bronco-buster on the whole plateau. And that little blonde by the fat women the other side of him is crazy about him. She's the daughter of another rich cattle owner, Mr. Hawley, whose wife comes out here every summer to keep him from flirting with pretty young tourists." "Well, you have been getting the news," laughed Helen. "And see there's a lady Walter Winchell, the long-faced woman with her hand up to her mouth sitting by one of our school moms. She's been giving us the lowdown on everybody. Look at that exotic woman in the striped riding habit. She's an expert horsewoman and has a place of her own out a little farther on the mountain which, according to Mrs. Grundy, is all too popular with the men. She keeps blooded dogs and polo horses and goes all over the mountain taking movie pictures of different things going on. I don't blame the men for being interested in her, do you? She's charming. But according to the gossip lady, she should be barred from the mountain." "How interesting." Helen was still watching Uncle Billy. "Why I've heard enough human interest stories already to make a book," Miss Fitzgerald continued, "I wish I could stay right here all summer. Romantic, isn't it?" A thought flashed suddenly to Helen. Why not stay? She'd come with only two definite ideas in mind: to get away while she was adjusting to her break with George, and to see the country her father had loved. She'd do it; stay right here, learn all she could about her father, and until she was absolutely sure about her feelings toward George. The program ended and the buckaroos went back to the platform. A waitress took her seat at the piano; a bell-boy appeared with a saxophone. As their music filled the room, couples on all parts of the floor started to dance. The bus driver came to Helen and Miss Fitzgerald. "Are you ready to go on to the Lodge now?" Before they could answer, Wood Russell and the tall young cattle owner Miss Fitzgerald had pointed out, stood before Helen. "Mrs. Latimer, may I present Mr. Steve Heyden and recommend him as a dancing partner?" "I believe we are just leaving." She looked at the bus driver. "Oh, go on and dance with Steve. Old man Vandyke can snooze out there in the dining room five minutes longer." "I had almost decided not to go on to the Lodge tonight anyway," she said. Her eyes wandered toward Uncle Billy again. "I'm not going back with the bus this trip, and I might as well stay here in the park awhile before going on to the canyon,—if Mr. Russell has room for me." "Sure thing," assured Russell. "There are chances every day to get out to Bright Angel." "Are you cancelling your return ticket, then?" the driver asked. "Yes. When I left home my plans were somewhat uncertain; but now I have decided to stay here awhile." "You lucky thing," sighed Miss Fitzgerald. "How I envy you!" "Go on and dance," Russell told her. "I'll see about your luggage." (To be Continued)
Elizabeth Snow Ivins (Address delivered at Mrs. Ivins' funeral, March 25, 1936) By Amy Brown Lyman
I feel greatly honored in being asked to say a few words on this occasion: First, because I regard Elizabeth Snow Ivins as one of the finest and highest types of women our Church and State has produced; And secondly, because she was one of my dearest friends. She has come to me in my hours of sorrow and discouragement, and because of her fine intelligence and understanding heart has comforted me as few could do. Her love and friendship are among the sweetest gifts of my life. Someone has said: "It takes a great soul to be a true friend,—a large, steadfast, and loving spirit. There was no wavering in the friendship of this noble woman. She was dependable, loyal, tender and true; and once a friend a friend always. No one could come between her and a friend. No one could influence her against a friend. She was never changeable. Fortunate were those who tasted of this rare friendship. Daughter of that great pioneer leader and missionary, Erastus Snow, whose duties kept him from home much of the time, Elizabeth Snow as a young woman was a tower of strength to her busy, hardworking pioneer mother. Their hospitable home in St. George, which was full of children and which was a center of culture and refinement, was a gathering place for the people of the community and was an open house to travelers and friends. Many of the leading men and women of the State were entertained and made welcome there. Wife of another outstanding pioneer leader and statesman, President Anthony W. Ivins, who was also claimed by the public, it was necessary for Sister Ivins to assume the major responsibility of their home—the care of the family and the training of the children. As the home of a Stake President, this was also an open house and social center. In Old Mexico all of the General Authorities and many of the Auxiliary workers of the Church have been entertained and made comfortable by Sister Ivins. And whether in St. George, Mexico, or Salt Lake City the Ivins' home has been a fine Christian home, an ideal L.D.S. Home. It has been a beautiful, well kept, well organized, wholesome home, filled with books and magazines; a home where all sorts of subjects were discussed from ancient history and religion to modern art and current social problems. And in all of this discussion Sister Ivins took an active part. A visit to the Ivins' home always meant interesting, profitable and stimulating conversation. Into this family, 9 children were born, 8 of whom survive, 5 girls and 3 boys, all of whom are here today. They are all college bred, super-fine characters and upstanding citizens of the highest order. What a gift to the world! During her long life it has been no trial for Sister Ivins to make personal sacrifices for her loved ones. It has been no task for her to minister to their daily needs, nurse them in times of illness and help to lighten their burdens. She suffered when they suffered, and rejoiced in their joys. She was an ideal wife and helpmate, devoted and loyal to her husband and his interests; and their great success in life was due in no small measure to her faith, ability, devotion, and industry. She worked shoulder to shoulder with him, and her practical wisdom and vision were a great asset in the partnership. She was frugal, thrifty, ingenious and resourceful. So I would say that although Mrs. Ivins in her earlier years was actively interested in promoting civic affairs and active in Church work, especially in the R.S. And Y.W.M.I.A. In both of which organizations she served as President, her greatest contribution to the world was as wife, homemaker and mother. Sister Ivins was a woman of great poise. She was beautiful, charming and lovable and had a most attractive personality, and with all she was so honest and straightforward and free from pretense. She was lovely in disposition and even in temperament. Her discriminating husband was always enamored of her. From the early age of 9 to the time of his passing she was his ideal. They were real lovers. It was my privilege to spend 6 weeks in travel with them, and I never saw a more loving, congenial and unselfish couple. It is a real joy today to know that they are now reunited, and for eternity. Even her children could not wish her back. As I have frequently visited her the last year and have asked what I could do for her, she has always said, "The thing I want most of all you cannot give to me." There is only one thing that could satisfy my yearning heart." I firmly believe that if Anthony W. Ivins were here today, she would be here. After his death she seemed to fade away. Sister Ivins was a great reader. She had a fine intellect, a characteristic of all the Snows I have ever known, and I went to school with a number of them, all of whom seemed to know everything about everything. She had rare executive ability and would have been successful in any field of activity. Sister Ivins was a greatly beloved and valued member of the Friendship Circle, a group of congenial women, which meets monthly for social and cultural purposes, and it will never seem the same without her. On the base of Utah's Seagull Monument, portrayed in a group of pioneer figures, is the pioneer woman. She stands beside the man (who with drooping head and relaxed muscles) is obviously disheartened. The children are listless and weary; but the woman with head up and muscles tense shows courage and determination and seems to be the inspiration of the group. This woman is typical of Elizabeth Snow Ivins and all of those other western pioneer women who faced life and who arm in arm with their men helped to blaze the trails in the great American desert and to found an empire in the west. Now as to the future. As to immortality. Some say, prove immortality. Our answer would be prove truth, prove love. Immortality is its own proof, as truth is its own vindication. There is a spirit in man and the inspiration of God giveth it understanding. It is our faith and our knowledge, based upon the great example of the Savior, that we shall be resurrected. And in this hope of immortality is the apex of the glory of the earth life.
Book Binding By Bertha B. Asper Art Supervisor of Salt Lake Stake Relief Society
There are three major steps in book binding: first, making a press and preparing the magazines; second, sewing; third, making the case, gluing and covering the book. To make the press take a flat piece of board 7x14 inches and one inch thick. At the sides of the front corners nail securely a one-inch square strip of board 12 inches high. To these strips nail a piece of the same at the top as cross bar. Bore three small holes ¼ inch from the front of the board two inches apart. Hammer three nails in the front one-inch depth, just to the side of the holes. Thread a piece of binders' twine through each hole and tie the end to the nail, then fasten the other end tightly to the cross bar. Make two smooth slats 9x2 inches. In these slats make five grooves. The holes in the platform and the grooves in the slats must correspond. Now remove the wire staples from the Magazine and slip off just the outside cover. If you take the ad sheets, you destroy the index and sometimes lesson work or valuable articles from the back of the Magazine. It is easier to sew the ads in and keep the index than to paste the sheets in that would otherwise be detached. The General Board have index sheets printed for each volume to which you are welcome. They have many indexes left for the years 1923-30, but most of the indexes for the other years have been called for. Before taking your Magazine apart be sure you can get the index. To use these indexes, carefully separate the ad section and the back sheets of the Magazine and cut them apart. Now paste the back printed sheets on the Magazine again in place. Put just a fine line of paste along the cut edge of the sheet and place in position pressing well to the back. Arrange the Magazines in order with the index sheet first, then January through December. Holding between the thumb and fingers, jump them on the table, bumping the folded edges, or backbone, then the top ends of the Magazines until edges and back folds are all even. Place one slat on the upper side, the other slat on the under side of the twelve numbers, the grooves in the slats to the folded edges of the Magazines. Be sure not one Magazine slips in. Hold in position with quilting frame clamps while you saw through the Magazines at the five grooves in slats, deep enough to go through the very inner pages. With the press ready and the Magazines all in order we are now ready to sew. A bodkin or darning needle, and crochet cotton No. 5 waxed is a good thread. The flatter we can make the Magazines, the thinner our finished book will be. Hammer well, or press with hot iron or run several times through the wringer (each Magazine separately). With the index sheet face down on the platform, find the center fold. Insert the needle in the first hole, out the second and over the binders' twine, back into the second hole, out the third, over the binders' twine and out the fourth, over the twine, back in the fourth and out the fifth hole. Now go back with the January number face down. In the fifth hole, out the fourth, over the twine back in the fourth, out the third and so on till we finish out first hole. Tie thread securely. Draw all threads tight each time. Repeat with the February number as we did the index. When we finish the fifth hole pull the thread tight and then slip the needle between the index and the January number in a button hole stitch. Continue the same, number after number through December. Always pull thread tight after each number and button hole to the Magazine preceding. Stitch several times extra after December number and cut thread. Several volumes could be sewed on the press without changing the twine, but each book must be tied securely and thread cut before starting another volume. Cut the binders' twine, leaving one inch on each side of volume. A piece of drawing paper, suitable wall or ceiling 9x12 inches folded through the center to fit the Magazine makes the fly leaves or end sheets. Paste the folded edges of the end sheets and put one of these on each side of the book, folded edges together. Comb out the one inch ends of the binders' twine and paste down tight and smooth to the fly leaves. Now if you have a printer in your vicinity, or perhaps your town newspaper will trim the edges even, your finished book will be more even. To Bind: The glue pot, which should be placed over a pan of hot water. Use flexible glue. The glue should be moderately hot and not too thick. Glue the backbone, getting well in the cracks. When dry, pound with a hammer. Place the book flat on the table and with your left hand on the book draw toward your body, as you pound the backbone. Turn the book over and repeat. Turn several times. This gives the round to the backbone. The top of the backbone is a piece of heading, a strip of cloth to finish the edge. You may substitute something with a strong edge that will not break, or a cross wise strip of cotton cloth glued and folded over on itself with a cord through the center. Hold the book together at the top of the backbone and glue ¼ inch down. Stretch a piece of heading across where we have glued high enough to top the folded edges of the book. Be careful to tuck the ends down as these must not be seen. Glue backbone and apply a piece of super cloth the entire length. Cut super cloth wide enough to cover backbone and extend 1½ inches over the end paper on each side, very smooth and tight. Super cloth is crinoline or starched cheese cloth. Cut two strips of heavy paper (the cover of the Magazine is good) wide enough to cover the rounded back. Glue one of these strips and place over the super cloth, just under the top edge of the heading and trim off just under the edge of the heading at the other end. Now rub well with a clothes pin to shape the backbone. Now for the case. The fabricoid or whatever material used should be cut at least 10x15 inches. The cardboards should be cut 6x9 inches. Measure across the glued backbone of the book, then allow ¼ inch on each side. The width of this strip makes the back section. Cut another piece of cardboard this width and as long as your book. (Work on a newspaper.) Place this strip on the cover material, centers even. While this strip is in position, place the cardboards on the material close to the strip and true up your margins. Mark along top edges of cardboards with white ink, red lead pencil or something that can be seen through glue. Mark down side of back section using those lines as a guide. Remove one cardboard and center section and glue just this part of material. Work from center out. Replace cardboard, top edge and back edge matching guide lines. Remove other cardboard and do the same. By doing one side at a time it prevents material curling and is easier to work with. The top edges must be straight. Glue center and place other strip of Magazine cover. Remove newspaper. Miter the corners of the material and turn all edges over on the cardboard, press smoothly. Place the book in the case so that all edges extend evenly. With the book flat, open the top cover back, place a newspaper under just the first fly leaf, glue surface and bring cover over, remove newspaper. With your thumb press firmly in the groove at the back of the boards. Turn book over and repeat. Press well in the grooves with the blunt edge of a case knife or a clothes pin. Dry under pressure. For a limp cover the method is the same until you get to the boards. Put the strip down the center of the leatherette. Place your book and glue the fly leaves the same as we did for the boards. The Deseret News have prepared bundles, enough of everything for twelve volumes, for $3.15, postage extra.
QUILTS By Della Adams Leitner
These tiny scraps of bright, gay-colored cloth Combined by skillful, patient hands to make The intricate designs of lovely quilts— What artistry they show! What craft they take!
We treasure them and count the time worth while It takes for their creation. Day by day The minutes one might waste are gathered here In satisfying beauty, long to stay.
Fragments of cloth, mosaics that will keep The memories of treasured friendships rare By glad exchange. Each piece a tale might tell Of how it came in this to have a share.
And as I view these quilts I meditate, How well, I think, they may our lives express. The bits of time we use for kindly deeds Will harmonize the whole to loveliness.
Lessons For 1936-37
A great Danish leader said, "An awakened mind will find the way." The way has been given; it is the Gospel as given to the world by Jesus. The spirit of His teachings is as true today as when He taught in Palestine. The need of the world is for "awakened minds" to understand the Gospel and realize that His way of life is the only practical way. The Theology Lessons, the Teachers' Topics and the Relief Society Project for 1936-37 are based on the life and teachings of Jesus.
THEOLOGY LESSONS—THE MINISTRY OF THE SAVIOR
1. Christ's Ministry Foretold by the Prophets.
2. Christianity Before the Christ.
3. A Divine Code to the Ideal Life (The Sermon on the Mount).
4. The Fundamental Qualities of Life (The Beatitudes).
5. The New Religion Versus the Old.
6. Christ the Champion of Woman.
7. The Christ as Organizer of a Church.
8. The Christ and the Gathering of Israel.
9. The Miracles of the Christ.
REFERENCE BOOKS Bible. Book of Mormon. Doctrine and Covenants. The Pearl of Great Price. Jesus the Christ—Talmage. The Way to Perfection—Smith. The Articles of Faith—Talmage. The Ethics of Jesus—King. The Life of Christ—Farrar. The Teachings of Jesus—Rall. Moral Teachings of Jesus—Bennion. The Realism of Jesus—Findlay. Religion and a Changing World—Silver.
TEACHERS' TOPIC—THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR
1. The Lost Sheep.
2. The Sower.
3. The Parable of the Prodigal Son.
4. The Parable of the Talents.
5. The Parable of the Friend at Midnight.
6. The House Built Upon a Rock.
7. The Pharisee and the Publican.
8. The Good Samaritan.
9. The Unmerciful Servant.
WORK AND BUSINESS LESSONS Home Problems
Some people work better when working in groups. "The very fact that others around them are working on things of a similar type seems to stimulate many people."
I. October: Color in the Home.—Handicraft For Every Woman, pages 24-26, pp. 58-59. See Pamphlet Suggestions, page 175. II. November: Ornamental and Useful Things for Christmas.—Handicraft For Every Woman, pages 124-127, p. 135. III. December: Repairing, Remodeling and Replenishing Clothing, Bedding and Household Linens. IV. January: Convenient Kitchens, Home Lighting—Handicraft For Every Woman, pages 50-58. V. February: Repairing, Refinishing and Upholstering Furniture and Making Slip Covers.—Handicraft For Every Woman, pages 33- VI. March: Seeds and Plants. VII. April: Floors and Floor Coverings—Handicraft For Every Woman, pages 27-30 and p. 98. VIII. May: Methods and Equipment For Home Laundering. IX. June: Knitting and Crocheting.—Handicraft For Every Woman, pages 67-76.
LITERARY LESSONS
It is said that everybody reads biography today, and that in the best-selling lists biography and fiction run side by side. Our literary lessons for 1936-7 will take up three most interesting biographies. During October, November and December we will study the life of Alice Freeman Palmer; January, February and March, the life of Abraham Lincoln; April, May and June, the life of Julia Ward Howe. Special editions of these biographies have been secured so as to give our members a very much lower price on the books than would otherwise be possible. These volumes may be secured at the Deseret Book Store at the following prices:
Julia Ward Howe........$2.00 postpaid Alice Freeman Palmer 1.25 postpaid Abraham Lincoln.......90 postpaid Add 2% for Utah Sales Tax.
The set of three books, $4.00. We hope these will be secured as early as possible, so that all will read them leisurely and be able to get the most out of them.
MISSION LESSONS 1936-1937 CHILD GUIDANCE
George Herbert Betts, in his book Fathers and Mothers, says: "It is easy enough to be parents of our children, but to be parents to them is a privilege and a duty not yet fully realized by all of us." To help us be parents to our children, to realize that it is our responsibility to guide their development, and that this responsibility "cannot be delegated, it is ours," the Mission Lessons on Child Guidance have been planned. The following vital problems will be considered for the following year:
Parental Responsibility. Can Mothers Learn More About Training Their Children? Why Our Children Are Not Alike. How Children's Fears Develop. How to Overcome Fears. The Meaning and Control of Temper Tantrums. How to Administer Rewards and Punishments. Some Suggestions on the Parent-child Relationship.
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
Earth is more than kind in May. Walk among the flowers and inhale life's sweet elixir.
Florence Nightingale and Jane Addams were the only women noted among the 10 greatest humanitarians of all time by a Philadelphia group of leaders in religion, science, statesmen, social workers, and philanthropists.
No one showed more courage than the telephone operators during the recent floods. A young woman in Johnstown sent out the following message: "There are ten of us up here. We think we won't be safe much longer. Every minute another line goes out. We are just taking care of the few calls that come in. We are working in the dark. The water is splashing against our floor now. There are no row boats. Thanks for wishing us good luck, we need it."
Crown Princess Marie Jose, of Italy has taken up war work in a hospital at Eritrea.
Mrs. Muriel M. Seyfert of Harvard College observatory has discovered three gigantic clouds of star dust in the Milky Way.
Miss Ethel Connelly, teacher of English and Dramatic Art in the West High School, Salt Lake City, who died last month, was much beloved for the charm of her personality and intellectual attainments.
The Beautiful Marilyn Miller, star of the musical stage, died last month at the height of her career.
Anna Eleanor Roosevelt was recently given the Algernon Sidney Sullivan award from Rollin's College, Fla., for the attainment of the finer elements of character and ideals of service to humanity.
Mrs. Beatrice Koontz of New York runs successfully a dining car restaurant. She says: "If you are adventurous, know your field and are not afraid of work 24 hours a day you might clear $10,000 a month, for they are popular, but don't count on it. There are hazards."
Mrs. S. Agnes M. Craig, Justice of the Municipal Court of the first and second districts of the Bronx, is the first woman in New York state to hold that office.
Mrs. Anna L. Sweet of California died last month. Mrs. Sweet sat a few feet away from Abraham Lincoln in Ford's Theatre, the night he was shot.
Hilda Jones, a negro high school girl, designed the flowered pattern which Mrs. Roosevelt chose for her chiffon Easter costume.
Edith Wharton's collection of short stories, Helen Waddell's "Desert Fathers," Nora Hoults' "Holy Ireland," and Storm Jameson's "In The Second Year" are some of the new popular books by women.
Marie Connell, 78, of Pittsburgh attends high school night classes. She says: "It's never too late to learn. Believe me, I know."
Relief Society Annual Report FOR THE YEAR 1935 Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary
FINANCIAL ACCOUNT Cash Receipts
Balance on Hand January 1, 1935: Charity Fund..................$ 41,586.45 General Fund.................. 93,670.56 Wheat Trust Fund.............. 10,487.30 Total Balance, January 1, 1935...... $145,744.31
Donations Received During 1935: Charity Fund..................$ 65,062.33 General Fund.................. 90,435.65 Annual Dues................... 24,218.27 Other Receipts................ 46,540.98 Total Receipts................ $226,257.23
Total Balance on Hand and Receipts $372,001.54
Cash Disbursements
Paid for Charitable Purposes..........$ 66,863.86 Paid for General Purposes............ 101,987.25 Wheat Trust Fund Remitted to Presiding Bishop's Office.......... 439.26 Annual Dues paid to General Board and to Stake Boards............... 28,183.09 Paid for Other Purposes.............. 21,618.32 Total Disbursements.............. $219,091.78
Balance on Hand December 31, 1935: Charity Fund..................$ 44,407.95 General Fund.................. 98,248.51 Wheat Trust Fund.............. 10,253.30 Total Balance, December 31, 1935.. $152,909.76
Total Disbursements and Balances on Hand...................... $372,001.54
Merchandise Received................ $ 16,309.12 Merchandise Disbursed............... 13,372.73 Balance on Hand.................... 2,936.39
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Assets
Balance on Hand December 31, 1935: All Funds...................$ 152,909.76 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishop's Office..... 404,876.13 Other Invested Funds............ 38,469.32 Value of Real Estate and Buildings.... 178,620.55 Value of Furniture and Fixtures...... 85,154.53 Other Assets.................... 32,390.50 $892,420.78
Stake Board Cash Balances on Hand December 31, 1935............. $ 36,338.08 Other Assets.................... 61,525.18 $ 97,863.26
Total Assets.................... $990,284.04
Liabilities
Indebtedness................... $ 1,033.19 Balance Net Assets.............. 891,387.59 $892,420.78
Balance Stake Board Net Assets... 97,863.26
Total Net Assets and Liabilities.... $990,284.04
STATISTICS
Membership January 1, 1935: Executive Officers............... 15,167 Visiting Teachers................ 24,140 Other Members................... 31,208 Total Membership January 1, 1935.. 70,515
Increase: Admitted to Membership During Year.. 9,005 9,005
Total Membership and Increase.... 79,520
Decrease: Removed or Resigned.............. 6,564 Died............................ 863 Total Decrease.................. 7,427
Membership December 31, 1935: Executive and Special Officers....... 15,236 Visiting Teachers................ 24,602 Other Members................... 32,255 Total Membership December 31, 1935 72,093
The Total Membership Includes: General Officers and Board Members........................ 23 Stake Officers and Board Members.......................... 1,282 Mission Presidents and Officers........................... 117
Number of Stakes......................................... 115 Number of Missions....................................... 30 Number of Relief Society Ward and Branch Organizations.... 1,744 Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts.................... 13,279 Number of L.D.S. Families in Wards...................... 135,664 Number of Relief Society Magazines taken.................. 35,899 Number of Executive Officers Taking Relief Society Magazine 6,014 Number of Meetings held in Wards......................... 61,991 Number of Stake Meetings Held............................ 2,275 Number of Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held.. 1,169 Number of Ward Conferences Held.......................... 1,437 Average Attendance at Ward Meetings...................... 32,335 Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers.................... 994,261 Number of Families Helped............................... 16,647 Number of Days Spent with the Sick...................... 43,996 Number of Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound...... 228,871 Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial.................... 1,958 Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers............. 6,113
COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS 1933 1934 1935 Paid for Charitable Purposes......$ 83,853.27 $ 62,608.95 $ 66,863.86 Total or Present Membership....... 68,796 70,515 72,093 No. Of Relief Society Organizations 1,662 1,728 1,744 No. Of Relief Society Magazines Taken 24,157 30,449 35,899 No. Of Days Spent with the Sick... 40,226 44,397 43,996 No. Of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound.................... 220,188 222,630 228,871 No. Of Families Helped........... 18,498 17,284 16,647 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Officers to Wards.................... 5,985 6,089 6,113 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Visiting Teachers.................... 918,663 972,488 994,261
DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Stakes Missions Arizona................. 2,651 Argentina.............. 70 California.............. 2,816 Australia.............. 176 Canada.................. 1,352 Canada................. 133 Colorado................ 497 Europe................. 4,578 Hawaii.................. 454 Hawaii................. 754 Idaho................... 10,516 Mexico................. 465 Mexico.................. 187 New Zealand............ 497 Nevada.................. 851 Samoa.................. 379 New York................ 167 South Africa........... 108 Oregon.................. 181 Tahiti................. 400 Utah.................... 37,865 Total.................. 171 Wyoming................. 1,485 United States.......... 5,340
Total Membership in Stakes....59,022 Total Membership in Missions..13,071
Total Membership in Stakes and Missions..............72,093
(Note: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various Wards, with the exception of the Annual Membership Dues.)
TO MOTHER By Samuel G. Clawson
The earth, I often think would be a drear, Drab place despite its varying season's flowers In spring, the autumn leaves, and at the year's End, snow to blanket tiresome hours Of winter—were it not that God had seen The need of overtones—those gay perennials Which last the whole year through and lean Upon the air with fragrance spilling vials Of perfume into empty spots where blowing Spring seeds take no root, and summer's shower Drenches the dainty bud beyond all growing. Ah then, we're thankful for the lasting flower! And you, the gay perennial, bless the year, Blooming eternally, our Mother dear.
Relief Society Conference OFFICERS' MEETING April 2 and 3, 1936 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints held its Annual Conference April 2 and 3, 1936, in Salt Lake City, Utah. President Louise Y. Robison was in charge. There were nine sessions in all, including the Officers' Meeting; four departments—Social Welfare, Work and Business, Choristers and Organists, and Magazine Agents; the Reception for General, Mission and Stake Officers; the Presidents' Breakfast, and two General Sessions. The attendance at all sessions was most gratifying, including delegates from 114 Stakes and 10 Missions. The attendance at the Officers' Meeting was as follows: Mission Presidents 10; Mission Officers 2; Stake Presidents 87; Counselors 121; Secretary-Treasurers 61; Board Members 393; making a total attendance of 674. The music of the entire conference was especially fine. The Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the able direction of Charlotte O. Sackett, were at their best. They were assisted by Professor Frank W. Asper at the organ; Alta B. Cassity and Helen Croft Jensen at the piano; Professor William M. Hardiman with the violin. Soloists were: Eleanor Thomas, Margaret Hewlett, and Bessie Morley. The reception for Stake and Mission Officers held at the Hotel Utah on Thursday evening was arranged by Emma A. Empey, Chairman. It was most beautiful in every detail, and gave the opportunity for Relief Society sisters from far and wide to meet in delightful social contact. The General Presidency and Board were greatly touched by the beautiful flowers from the Hillcrest Ward and Bonneville Stake. A most unique and interesting addition to the conference was the exhibit of handwork done by the General Officers of Relief Society and the General Authorities' wives, both past and present. This delightful feature was a part of the Work and Business Department, with Jennie B. Knight, chairman, and showed the thrift, frugality and artistry of the sisters. The articles exhibited displayed handwork dating from pioneer times to the present, and were a credit to any group of women at any time or place. In addition to this there was a fine demonstration of made-over articles, conducted by Bessie E. Gourley, of Utah Stake; rug making by Elnore R. Morris, of Highland Stake; and bookbinding by Bertha B. Asper of Salt Lake Stake—just a few of the things possible in Work and Business Meetings.
STAKE OFFICERS' MEETING OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison
"There will be a change in the schedule for visiting your Conference-conventions. The General Authorities have divided the quarterly conferences, of which they will take one-half, and the auxiliary organizations the other half. The Relief Society will hold its conference-conventions during the third and fourth quarters of the year, beginning the last of June and continuing through the remainder of the year. Our program will be carried on very much as it has been. The General Authorities have given us permission to hold our Officers' and some other meetings on Saturday afternoon, and Sunday morning we may meet with the Bishops and our Ward Presidents. We will get our programs to you as early as possible, and you will realize that we cannot change the date because it is set by the General Authorities, and is a part of the quarterly conference. I believe you will be very happy to know that we are going to change the time for publishing the lessons in the Relief Society Magazine. The early publication of the lessons did not work out very satisfactorily, so the lessons for the Fall of 1936-1937 will not begin until the August issue of the Magazine. We have been asked about the singing practice in our Relief Society meetings. Some of the wards have felt that they have not time for this, and others, that the singing practice is not long enough—they would like the greater part of Relief Society devoted to this. We now restate this ruling, which we have announced before, that the singing practice is to be ten minutes, and no longer, at each of the Ward meetings, except Theology. The Theology, preceded by the Visiting Teachers' Training Meeting, and including our Testimony meeting, makes a very full period, and we think the singing practice should be dispensed with for this day. Singing is to bring our minds into harmony with the purpose of the meeting, to give the spiritual atmosphere, and help one to leave the things of every day life outside. Singing the first song is an important preparation for the prayer that follows. We want to congratulate the Stakes and Wards for the work they have done; on the excellent programs they have had for the seventeenth of March. In general they have been outstanding, and the ingenuity in finding so many new things has been greatly appreciated. There have been just a very few Stakes where, in the effort to escape from the drab or the too serious things of life, programs that were hardly in keeping with the Relief Society have been presented. We do not wish to be stiff and formal, but we do want to be dignified and exemplary women. We think it is entirely out of place for women to blacken their faces for any show, and we would rather not have women dress in men's clothing. Always try to do things that retain dignity, and you can have pleasure, too, by making the Anniversary Day programs as high grade as it is possible to have them. We have been informed in some cases that there is no report made of the business discussed in the meetings of the General Conference, when you return home. We were just a bit surprised at the Leadership Week in Provo, when a Stake Board member said she had never heard a word about our Handicraft book. This officer could not attend meetings last April or October, and nearly a year after our book was published she had never heard of it. I wonder if you Presidents feel that this book is as fine as we think it is! We have had so many responses from it. Have you taken it up seriously, realizing that there was something worthwhile in it, or have you just scarcely looked at it and thought it was not what you wanted? Orders from far remote parts have come in for the Handicraft book, as shown by our order files—educators from all over America have asked for it. Handicraft is not just a fad, it is something that will make a change in our lives. Sister Barker, who spent some time in Czechoslovakia related what a wonderful thing happened to the people of Czechoslovakia. They had been almost serfs, not even permitted to use their own language. Some of the women worked in the fields, barefoot, but no matter how hard the work, or how menial the task, they did not forget to try some creative work largely through the advice of their great leader, Masaryk—they kept alive the spirit of their nation. When these women came home from the fields, weary as they must have been, they would do some beautiful handwork. Sister Barker saw a piece of lace upon which one woman had spent almost all her life. She had tried to copy the flowers that were native to that part of the country, and in a square of lace, a most exquisite thing was preserved. There was no money value placed upon it, but to have this outlet for self-expression in her life was of immense value. Latter-day Saint women could have a culture that could be outstanding. I feel that we have neglected some of the beautiful arts that our mothers and grandmothers brought to this country. We are especially blessed because we have people here from every country, so that from all of these lands we should develop an art which is distinctly our own. It is very interesting to know that the Congressional Library in Washington has asked for the bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine that were missing, to complete their files. If any of you go to Congress and need the Relief Society Magazine, you may find it in the library there. About a year ago the United States Public Health Department asked us to cooperate with them in making it popular to have outdoor toilets in better condition throughout the Western states. Mr. Male met with us in our Work and Business Meeting, and had something there on display. We were asked to endorse the work, which we did. Under date of March 27, 1936, we received a letter from the Treasury Department of the United States Public Health Service, thanking the Relief Society for the cooperation they had given in this project, and saying that in the Western States, where Relief Society is active, they have more of these very fine toilets than in any other place in the United States. In order that there be no misunderstanding on the subject of the Relief Society and the Missionary work, we quote from the Bulletin issued by the Presiding Bishop's Office: "Relief Society and Missionary Donations: It is learned that in some instances Ward Bishoprics have placed upon the Ward Relief Society the responsibility of raising funds for Missionaries out in the field. This is, of course, improper, because the Relief Society is specifically charged with other responsibilities, among which is the raising of funds for charity. The gathering of any donations for the aid of the Missionaries should be either under the direction of Melchizedek quorum members or a specially appointed Missionary Committee." Now sisters, we do not want you to feel that we are not interested in the Missionaries, we are, and if any one of us can contribute to the Missionaries, it is a privilege to do so, but the Relief Society, as an organization, is not called upon to raise money for the Missionaries. We have prepared a gift card, which we will take up more in detail in the Magazine Department, but I want the Stake Presidents to know about it. We will send to any person who receives the Magazine as a Birthday, Mothers-day or Christmas gift, this very attractive card. In reading the Bulletin from the Presiding Bishopric, which gives the names of the Stakes from all over the Church, and the percentage of weekly attendance at Priesthood Meeting, and that of Ward Membership at Sacrament Meeting, the percentage is very low in some places. Now sisters, we are not trying to dictate, but we do feel that the mothers of our Church have a very large responsibility for the attendance at Sacrament Meeting. Do you know there are only three Stakes in our Church where one-third of the membership are in meeting? There are only seven Stakes where one-fourth of the people go to Sacrament Meeting. There are seventy-six Stakes where less than one-fifth go to meeting. There are two Stakes where only eleven out of one hundred members go to meeting. Is there anything you can do about this, sisters? This report made me feel that in some widely scattered communities there might be a justifiable excuse for this neglect of duty, but when I noted what Wards they were, the excuse would not hold, for Salt Lake City, and other larger cities, brought the record down. In some of the remote Stakes, where transportation is a serious problem, there is better attendance. A very active, live Relief Society Stake President called at the office and said her Stake President had asked each 'of the heads of the auxiliary organizations to give five reasons why people are not attending to their religious duties. It might be well for you to take this suggestion home, and find out, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE if your people are not attending, five reasons why they are not. There has been considerable agitation about the time of closing our meetings at the end of the season. Some Stakes say the people do not come out, they are just tired, while at that same time some others say they have a regular attendance. Word has gone out that some Stakes have permission to close early. If these Stakes have had permission we now rescind that permission, and place the responsibility directly upon you. We feel that the lessons ' should keep up until well in June. I realize that in some places there are berries to pick and women are busy, but they should not work all the time, they should have some rest. I believe if the Stake Officers and Board Members and Committees would plan something especially desirable and unique, and work a little harder, we could keep our meetings up at least until the season closes. We want to know if you cannot do this, because we would not prepare the lessons if they cannot be given. A stake officer reported the other day that in some of the Wards they could double up the lessons. I think if there is any complaint of our lessons, it is, they are too long. If they are too long for one meeting you certainly could not get anything much of them if you tried to give two lessons in one day. Formerly we prepared lessons for September, and then women were so busy we did not begin until October, but if the lessons are not appreciated we will just not make quite as many lessons. We are leaving it to you Stake Presidents to say when the meetings close. I would like to thank you dear sisters for coming out this morning, and bringing this beautiful spirit with you. The members of the General Board would like individually to express to you their appreciation for RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE your kindness and for your wonderful hospitality when we go out into your Stakes. Please remember that not any 309 problem is too small, write to us, come and see us. We pray for you and are always interested in hearing from you. ANNUAL REPORT Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary I" gives me great pleasure to give a very brief summarized statement of the Annual Report for 1935. A detailed report will be mailed to the Stakes and published in the May issue of the Relief Society Magazine. The following summary is given: Total Balance on Hand 'January 1, 1935, $145,744.31; Total Receipts during 1935, $226,257.23; Total Balance on Hand and Receipts, $372,001.54; Paid for Charitable Purposes, $66,863.86; Total Disbursements, $219,091.78; Total Balance, December 31, 1935, $152,909.76; Total Assets, $990,284.04; Ward Conferences Held, 1,437; Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers, 994,261; Number of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound, 228,871. Membership in 1934, 70,- 515; in 1935, 72,093; an increase of 1,578. The Membership includes: Executive and Special Officers, 15,236; Visiting Teachers, 24,602; Other Members, 32,255. Average attendance 1934, 33,833; 1935, 32,- 335; a decrease of 1,498. Paid for Charitable Purposes in 1934, $62,- 608.95; 1935, 66,863.86, an increase of $4,254.91. May I take this opportunity of expressing our very great appreciation to the Stake Secretaries. There have been a number of new ones this year, owing to the reorganizations which have taken place, but on the whole the work of the Secretaries, as demonstrated by the Annual Report, was extremely well done this year. ORGANIZATIONS AND REORGANIZATIONS During the year 1935 there were a number of changes in the Relief Society organizations throughout the world. A number of new Stakes have been created, and several reorganizations have taken place. It is always with a feeling of love that we note the retirement of those sisters who have been associated in the organization work for so many years, and without exception they have given the best efforts of their lives toward building up the work which is so dear to them. The General Officers, as well as the people of the communities in which they live, join in expressing to those who retire from active service, the utmost gratitude and appreciation. It is always a pleasure to welcome to the group of Stake Presidents those who have been called upon. To accept this responsible position in the communities, and nothing can give greater pleasure than to experience from them the same fine cooperation we have always found in their predecessors. The following is a list of Organizations and Reorganizations as we have them compiled to date: 310 Northern States Artemesia Romney RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Appointed President Pearl A. Daynes Mrs. W. Ernest Young Mary P. Howells Appointed President Clara H. Fridal Vera L. Swapp Cornelia S. Lund Blanch Hoglund Vera H. Cloward Edith D. Sellers Camellia Rencher Sophia Meikle Amy B. Towler Appointed President Hannah Ursenbach May G. Hinckley ORGANIZATIONS Date Stake, Oct. 1935 Bonneville (Taken from Liberty) Mission South American Mission Divided: Argentine Brazil REORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Feb., 1936 Bear River Margaret W. Manning Oct., 1935 Kanab Bergetta A. Covington Oct., 1935 Liberty Amy P. Romney Feb., 1936 Los Angeles Laura P. Hotaling ~ Oct. 1935 Nebo ~° Mary P. Harding Dec., 1935 Sacramento Olive Lindblad Nov., 1935 St. Johns Josephine A. Patterson Mar., 1936 Teton Eve L. Engberson Mar., 1936 Wells Marie H. Tanner French Ruth L. Lang RELIEF SOCIETY AWAKE TO CHURCH STANDARDS Donna D. Sorensen, Member of the General Board WO evils are constantly beckoning to all people and to young people especially and these are the evils of liquor and tobacco. The standards of the Church have been and are that inasmuch as these things are not good for man we totally abstain from them. We recognize that no one at the time of their first indulgence in tobacco and liquor intends to become habituated but it is the nature of these evils to enslave and so in "total abstinence" alone is there safety. Sec. 89 of the Doc. And Cov. Is our safeguard which helps us to distinguish between that which might have a tendency to become an accepted social custom and that which we should avoid because of the admonition of the Lord. There are numbers in the Relief Society today who have no remembrance of the corner saloons and the broken homes resulting from drink. Never before has a generation of young people so free from the spectacular pictures of drunken men on the street and drink cursed homes been brought so suddenly into easy contact with alcoholic drink. What is the answer? The old-fashioned appeal of being good for goodness' sake alone is not a workable one today I feel. We must meet the inevitable "why" of the youth with a background of science and education based on the needs of public health, safety, and all-round daily living. We must build not alone on a foundation of abstract morals but of morals based upon scientific information and social experience. We must counteract the deluge of Mission Released RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE pseudo-scientific advertising in newspapers, radio and magazines by a sound knowledge of the truth. It has been said that one generation never learns from preceding generations. This should not be true of Latter-day Saints because the truth as revealed to us by the word of God is constant and remains still truth for each generation. We should pray for faith that we may accept without reservation the word of our Father. Do we have and can we develop faith to go hand in hand with scientific knowledge to fortify us? We must not only have the facts in our heads concerning the harmfulness of these evils but we must have also a living principle in our hearts. The fight against these evils must 311 first of all be an individual fight but if it remains just an individual fight it can not be as successful as when we have. Organized activity. The women of Relief Society must band together in their stakes and communities to uphold the standards of this Church. It is right and logical that this society should be to the forefront in these matters for who has ever been more concerned for the youth of the land than the mothers who gave to youth their very life? The Lord calls to us to "keep the faith, to carry on the deeds, to hold the spirit, the courage, the integrity of the pioneers." Will you answer that call equipped with the clear eye of knowledge and the heart full of faith in His word? THE VALUE OF CAREFUL PLANNING Achsa E. Paxman, President Utah Stake Relief Society "THE value of planning is important in every phase of life. One of its virtues is that it stimulates preparation; preparation gives information and confidence, and if you have confidence in yourself to perform that work, better results will follow. One may get by without planning ahead, but meeting the problems as they arise brings worry and lack of confidence. Preparation is needed in both spiritual and temporal work. Officers, class leaders, welfare workers, visiting teachers, and all workers, if efficiently performing their calling, prepare and plan. To magnify our calling, planning is essential. Business magazine records: "No man ever got nervous prostration pushing his business; you get it only when the business pushes you." Early preparations and plans will help in avoiding worry, strain, confusion and failures. Reading the Relief Society Magazine, the Handbook, and other instructions, and planning for conferences, socials, membership and magazine drives, brings such satisfactory results that compensation for the forethought is fully rewarded. It is careful planning and not hasty preparations that will make a prosperous and happy Relief Society. The things we pay for in advance we get at greatest profit. To get the greatest profit out of Relief Society, we must pay in advance by planning ahead. Any business that is carried on in a business-like manner is always budgeted, not only for its finances but also for conserving time. An architect never builds without plans and knows exactly what the finished building will be because of his careful planning. The mother who knows early in the day what the dinner menu will be has a better planned meal. Budgeting the family income and planning all household 312 duties secures ample means and time. Stake workers should plan a schedule or tentative program for the year and great benefits will-also come to the ward officers who make yearly, monthly and weekly plans. This combined with the monthly Union Meeting discussions and instructions will make: the wheels of Relief Society revolve perfectly and will give joy and progression to all. A story is told that when the radio was introduced the ear expressed itself as being the most important part of the face. However, the eyes, and mouth proved their importance, for without them radio programs could not be produced. Every officer and all departments are important, and each must prove its importance by planning and cooperating to make one grand general plan. The Washington Monument is one-third under ground. The preparation not seen is probably the hardest part. Some stakes prepare a printed program, outlining the events that take place each month during the year with suggestions and reminders that will be helpful to each Relief Society organization. In Utah Stake a yearly report is given each ward at the close of the year including the following items: Number of families in Ward; Ward Relief Society enrollment; % of families of ward enrolled; Average attendance of enrolled members; % of membership attending; Number of Magazines taken by members; % of enrollment taking the Magazine. With this comparative report of all wards, each one is able to see its weak and strong points and build according to its needs. A monthly check on some of the previous items is also given besides including the following: Number reading the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Relief Society Magazine; % of teachers' visits and talking the topic; and number prepared or having read the lesson for the day. To increase membership and attendance of members, a membership committee checks on all absentees after three times consecutive absence. They also invite new members to join the Relief Society and especially try to interest young mothers in joining. Magazine Drives well planned by the stake is "First Aid" to the ward agents. Suggestive Social Activities may be planned for the year and details worked out as the scheduled month arrives. Plan play and diversion. Play is an important part in education. Early in the year, know the date of your Ward Relief Society Conference and prepare the program to be used early enough for the ward to make a fine presentation. Anniversary Day plans: Planning for obtaining 100% membership dues; 100% teachers' visits and talking the topic; plans for better class leadership and getting members to read the lessons, so that better class participation will result; definite procedure plans of your meetings so that your reception committee is at their post, new members are made acquainted and welcome, preliminary music, songs that correlate with the theme of the day, time budgeted so that the ones who present the lesson have ample time and also limit themselves to their portion of the time; and last but not of least importance, prepare yourselves so that the spirit of love and prayer abides in your heart, for the spirit of good will and harmony is indispensable to every meeting. We must not become discouraged if we cannot acquire the results we should desire with the interferences RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE that are prevalent. We must be cognizant of the fact, however, that careful planning will lessen interferences and help toward perfection. It is the devoted artist, the one who thinks and feels and works that. Produces the masterpiece. Planning, seeking spiritual guidance and working will make your Relief Society a masterpiece. SISTER FLORA R. HICKS, of the Maricopa Stake, was called from the congregation to tell of the work in the Papago Ward, to which she and her husband have been called. Sister Hicks discussed most delightfully, the work among our Lamanite sisters. She related their needs, their hopes, their plans. These comprehend the extensive improvement of their temporal environment, and the lifting of the whole plane of life to higher ideals of social and spiritual betterment. 313 DEPARTMENT MEETINGS SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT Counselor Amy Brown Lyman, Chairman AN enthusiastic Department Meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, on Thursday afternoon, April 2, 1936. The address of Judge Hugo B. Anderson, explaining the underlying principles of the Federal Social Security Program as it operates in the Western States, will be published in full in the June issue of the Relief Society Magazine. How the plan functions in three representative Western States was presented by Alice H. Osborn, of the Los Angeles Welfare Department, for California; for Arizona, by Lenore S. Rogers, President of the Snowflake Stake Relief Society; and for Idaho, by Amy J. Hawkes, President of the Pocatello Stake Relief Society. Emeline Y. Nebeker of the General Board of Relief Society, and - the only woman on the Salt Lake County Relief Committee, outlined the plan of Social Welfare Administration as it functions through the counties of the State of Utah. Inez K. Allen, of the General Board, discussed "Relief Society Welfare Work," in a most helpful and delightfully humorous strain, calling attention to the great opportunities of Relief Society in the present time, to apply the spirit of sympathy, tolerance, courage, love, understanding, in fact all those virtues which have been the strength of the past, and are the hope of the present. Work AND BUSINESS DEPARTMENT Jennie B. Knight, Chairman A MOST successful meeting of this important Department of Relief Society was held in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, Thursday afternoon, April 2, 1936. The Work and Business Project of the Utah Stake Relief Society was graphically presented by Bessie E. Gourley, of the Stake Board. Great interest was added to this by the fine exhibit of some of the work accomplished. Amy W. Evans, General Board Member, who has charge of the Social Service Department of the General Board, discussed the problems of bedding, 314 clothing and other needs met by Relief Society, and called attention to the correlation of those with the Work and Business of Relief Society RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. President Louise Y. Robison expressed the real purpose and spirit of this in the following address. Purpose oF WorK AND BUSINESS President Louise Y. Robison HE history of people who have lived in times previous to our own is valuable to the extent that we profit by their experience. The Book of Mormon has many incidents of the manner of caring for the needy similar to the one found in Alma 1: 27-31. Nor need we go as far away as the Book of Mormon, for we have a most striking example in the history of the Church at Nauvoo. Bear in mind that the members of the Church had been driven from Kirtland to Missouri, from Liberty to Independence, and reached Nauvoo in 1839, only nine years after the organization of the Church. It is almost unbelievable that the Latterday Saints were in Nauvoo only seven years, and that during so short a time they built the beautiful Temple and many elegant homes, some of which still stand. There is a similarity in the way the people of Nauvoo cared for their needy, and the Book of Mormon history of the people under Alma. From the minutes of Relief Society, September 2, 1843, we read (see p. 30 Relief Society Handbook). In Utah there are 14,000 families, approximately 64,000 persons who, through drouth and other circum- | stances over which they have no control, are receiving Government help. A similar condition exists in many of our Western States. Nor can we draw a line and say: "On this side are the people who need assistance; on the other side all are in comfortable circumstances." If we face the situation squarely, what is the obvious requirement of Relief Society, remembering that we were organized to relieve distress? We have three fine courses of study, each one teaching us how to serve, the fourth—the Work and Business—gives us opportunity to serve. The cultural part of life must not be neglected—it never has been by our Church, but we must be sure that we are developing character as well as culture. In one of our Wards during very cold weather this past Winter, the Relief Society meeting was dismissed at the time the children were leaving school, just across the street from the meeting house. A delightful, helpful talk had been given in Relief Society on "Harmony of Colors," but a distressing sight met the eyes of these women. There were many little children leaving school who were cold, whose clothing was ragged and uncomfortable. Was the Relief Society in this Ward depriving themselves of the blessings that came to the people of Nephi and of Nauvoo? It is better, of course, to help people to help themselves, and this is another rich opportunity we have in Work and Business Meeting, to teach this constructive principle. In a school district here in Salt Lake, a project in. Adult Education was instituted. Most of the women who came wanted to learn to sew. Many of them were entirely ignorant of how to do even the simplest mending or sewing. This school district included two or three Wards, and many of the women were L. D. S. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Have you any women in your community who do not know how to sew? A fifteen-year-old girl came to the Relief Society office last Fall. She had no mother, but was herself trying to mother some little brothers and sisters on a very meager income. This fifteen-year-old girl had been invited to go on a camping trip with a Mutual group, but her coat lining was so ragged, she was embarrassed to go. Are you sure there are no motherless girls in your Ward whose coat linings are embarrassing? With very little imagination one would think the bedding in this home would require attention as well as the underwear of the children. The report came to our office only a short time ago that three little girls were sleeping in one bed because of insufficient bedding, and one of these children has Tuberculosis. I visited a Relief Society Ward Conference and heard the Secretary read the report of activities. Two quilts were made in that organization in the year 1935. There may, 315 of course, be no need for quilts in that Ward, but if little children sleep cold or go to school in ragged and insufficient clothing, the Work and Business of that Ward is not functioning. The challenge is to Presidents and Work and Business Supervisors to - find the need. Human interests are most vital and appealing. There will be no lack of response if leaders will realize the rich opportunity of service to "the least of these." The call for service is as great today as in the time of Alma, or when the Saints were in Nauvoo. The responsibility is ours. Relief Society has never shirked a duty. Let us pray for ability to succor those in need, that the cries of the widows and orphans may not ascend to our Father in Heaven against us. As Relief Society women may we hear the stirring call of the Servant of the Grail, when he aroused the young men about him: "Come let us thank our God that we have the power to hear the call of Life, and power to answer as the duty calls." MAGAZINE DEPARTMENT Counselor Kate M. Barker, Chairman HIS very interesting Department was held in the Ladies' Gym, Deseret Gymnasium, at 1:30 p. M., on Thursday, April 2, 1936. This was the first time a Department for the Magazine had been held during the Relief Society Conference, and it was a most inspirational gathering. Instructions bearing upon the special work of the Magazine Agents MARY C. KIMBALL, Editor of the Relief Society Magazine, pointed out the value of having a printed voice and that every effort were given under the different headings. Earl J. Glade gave one of his delightful and characteristic addresses on "'Salesmanship." Special attention should be called to the presentation of Magazine awards by President Louise Y. Robison. The response of the prize winners to the subject ""How We Won," embodied many interesting and constructive suggestions. Was put forth to print in the Magazine wholesome, uplifting, helpful material of as fine a literary standard and of as great variety as possible. 316 She also pointed out that many biographical sketches come in of very fine women who have served in the organization for a long period of time. There are hundreds, if not thousands, of such women and it is impossible to print sketches of the lives of all of them. Each biographical sketch submitted should have a general appeal and not be of interest only to those who know and love the subject of the sketch. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The space in the Magazine is very limited. Hundreds more articles are submitted than can be used. Very often poems or short articles are sent in that have been written for some special occasion, the setting and spirit made them very much enjoyed, but they are often not of enough literary merit to be worthy of publication in the Magazine and often they appeal only to the people of the ward or stake where they were given. PLACE OF THE MAGAZINE IN OUR EDUCATIONAL WORK Counselor Kate M. Barker "THE RELIEF SOCIETY is one of the greatest schools for leadership training. It is training for leadership in the home, and for this purpose a broad educational program is outlined and lessons written. These lessons are published in the Relief Society Magazine. Just as the chart and compass are necessary for the sea captain, so the Magazine is necessary for every officer and teacher. But the organization is a cooperative society. All are training for leadership and leadership is only developed by action. Every member needs the Magazine that she may contribute to the lessons. But there is still a broader field of educational work for the Magazine. One of the great responsibilities of the Relief Society is to aid in "Developing Christian homes in which Christian personality may develop." One of the greatest tasks in which any organization may engage is that of helping parents lift their family life to a higher spiritual plane. Most parents take their responsibility seriously. They are eager for help and more and more are coming to realize that children are shaped mentally and spiritually by the atmosphere of the home. Manners, personal views, prejudices, ideals—all make for the spirit of the home—become part of all, as naturally as the air we breathe. The spirit of the home is determined largely by what we read and what we talk about in the home. Literature is judged by its content and its form. Judged from the former standard the Magazine is good literature. It is wholesome from cover to cover. Adults and children alike need such reading material. Character is not something gained and then enjoyed forever. Character is growth and growth means ideals and most of us are short on ideals. Conversation in the home must be guided but not "preachy." If it is not guided, it is apt to be aimless or degenerate into gossip. To guide the conversation so that the spirit of the home is right, there must be worthwhile subjects to talk about. The Magazine in its editorials, stories, and articles furnish such material on a wide range of subjects. There are many women whom the Relief Society has not yet reached. The Magazine may be one way of converting them to the value of membership. There are many young mothers who are not affiliated with the organization. They may be reached through the Magazine. The last number had three splendid articles of especial interest to these young mothers and home makers. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE No work in Relief Society is more important than getting Church ideals into the homes through the Magazine. Our agents should have a high conception of their task. The success 317 of their work is not to be counted alone in the tangible results of subscriptions obtained, but rather in the intangible help given and ideals planted in the homes. PROBLEMS OF THE CIRCULATION MANAGER Kate M. Newman, Circulation Manager, Relief Society Magazine N mailing the Magazine, we desire to give you the best possible service, and ask your cooperation in helping us to be able to comply with the Post Office requirements, as they will not deliver the Magazine to you unless we do so. It is very necessary to have the name and proper address written plainly and correctly. Sometimes we receive a name and address that is almost impossible to read or copy. Do not abbreviate streets such as "Was." It can mean either Washington or Wasatch. Give the correct address and do not guess at numbers. We have hundreds of renewals each year with one figure different than it was the previous year, such as 742 or 746 East 2nd South. Now we are at a loss to know which is correct, and can not imagine so many people move such a short distance. Be exact: For example, I received a subscription with the name ''Sarah Jones Rush." We mailed the Magazine to this name but it was returned marked "no such person."' We then referred to the list, wrote to the agent and waited for a reply which came telling us that the name was Sarah Jones and the word "rush," although written with a capital "R" with no separation from the name, meant to rush the Magazine to her. We have lists of 3 or 4 names sent to us, for example, we will say from Warren, Arizona. We mail the Magazines, but later receive a complaint that one lady has not received hers, We write to the agent and finally learn that she lives in Bisbee instead of Warren, Arizona, although there was no indication of this on the list sent in to us. Also among a list of about 60 names from a large city with street numbers, such as San Francisco, California, will be one name with no indication that it does not belong with the others. It is returned to us, and we write to the agent and find the lady's address is Logan, Utah instead of San Francisco, Cal. In the meantime the lady is waiting for her Magazine, the fault not being with the mailing department. Sometimes we receive subscriptions without the name of the town, only the name of the ward given. This is not sufficient. I have a record of one sent this way, and it took 2 months for me to locate the subscriber, as there was nothing but the name of the ward on it to indicate where it came from. If you do not receive your magazine at the regular mailing time, don't fail to notify us at once. By doing so, as a rule, we are able to supply you with one, locate the trouble and rectify it immediately. When one waits six months, or as we have had them do, come to us after one or two years time, it is hard to correct a mistake of this kind. We cannot make good or replace Magazines after six months. On several occasions, we have a name and address sent to us and we mail the Magazine for several months, then receive a notice that the 318 Magazine is going to the wrong person, and that it should be sent to some one else. In the meantime the lady who has received the Magazines has failed to take care of them, so they cannot be returned to the rightful owner. She, having paid for them, is entitled to her full number, so the office replaces them and is the loser. One very important matter which is an expense to the Office and needs the help of the agent, is the duplication of Magazines to a subscriber. If every agent would keep the stub on her receipt book filled out correctly when giving a receipt to her subscriber, she would have a record to refer to when filling out a renewal subscription blank, and it would eliminate the sending of 2 Magazines for the same month to many women. It is customary in the office when a subscription comes in and does not state which month to commence with, to mail the current number. It is impossible for us to look up each subscriber and see if their renewal is for the current month. I personally feel that it is a part of the agents' work to state which number to commence the subscription with. Be as accurate as you can, and do not let us mail the Magazine for two or three months, then write and say you did not want them to commence until later. We have this happen occasionally and when on a list of about fifty names, it is quite a loss. Occasionally we receive a check or money order without any name or address. Please advise agents that we will gladly furnish subscription blanks and would be pleased to have them send all subscriptions in on these blanks with the complete name and address given. It is felt that Stake and Ward Magazine agents can help to eliminate extra work and expense as well as dissatisfaction among subscribers, by cooperating with the Magazine office. We do appreciate the interest taken as well as the service given by all concerned, and hope to give service to all that will be satisfactory in every way possible.
CHORISTERS' AND ORGANISTS' DEPARTMENT Ida Peterson Beal, Chairman
The theme for this Department was: "The Union Meeting—What it can do for Choristers and Organists." From far and near Choristers and Organists had gathered to obtain instructions that would make them more efficient in their labors. From their enthusiasm, and the many questions asked, it was evident that they realize their responsibility in placing music on the same high plane as that of the wonderful work developed by the class leaders of our educational program. Definite and helpful instructions were given by Ida Peterson Beal, Elise B. Alder and Alta B. Cassity. Charlotte O. Sackett used the major portion of the time in giving valuable and constructive suggestions on the problems pertaining to group singing, breathing, tone quality, rhythm, etc. The songs selected for the year's activity are the following: "The Morning Breaks," Evan Stephens; "Zion Stands With Hills Surrounded;" "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief;" "On the Bend of the River," (Words, Ruth May Fox; Music, Frances W. Champ); Trios: "In the Time of Roses"—Old German Melody; "The Old Refrain," Fritz Kreisler.
WHAT THE UNION MEETING CAN DO FOR THE ORGANIST Janet M. Thompson, Member of General Board
The Union Meeting is essentially a preparation meeting. It serves as a point of contact for definite instruction and help. It functions as a guiding and directing force. It permits of discussion of uniform as well as special problems. The Music Section affords opportunity to improve our work—to develop yearly, monthly and weekly objectives. This department can—Inspire, encourage and help organists to secure practical knowledge and skill. Keep them informed as to the needs, the strength and weakness of music in Stake. Seek suggestions from Ward organists in order to unify work. Challenge the interest of the class. Renew enthusiasm, build for more efficient service and constantly stimulate in order to avoid indifference. A wise musician will study the life story of the composer. A well-planned music department will develop the spiritual and educational background of all music used. If possible organists should have ten minutes at each Union Meeting for discussion of their problems. Probably one of the common problems is the preliminary music. It has much to do with the spirit of the meeting—it should prepare us for thought and reflection—stir devotion and transmit a spiritual message to the congregation. The organist brings the first message of the day with preliminary voluntary. Does it create the proper atmosphere for the meeting—does it add dignity to the occasion? How carefully have we planned the first message? They should consider what to play and how to play it. Choice of music has a great deal to do with the success of the meeting. It involves three requirements—it must suit the congregation, suit ourselves, and must be fitting to the occasion. The playing of music should be a positive element—the congregation is receptive and ready to be influenced. John Ruskin said, "Technique is only skill, art is mystery and spiritual power. The performer's task is to bring out the special quality of beauty that lies in music."
PRESIDENTS' BREAKFAST President Louise Y. Robison, Presiding
This very important gathering of the Relief Society was held in the Recreation Room of the Lion House, Friday morning, April 3, 1936. The tables were bright with Spring flowers in the gold and blue tints. The menu was delicious, and the entertainment of a most unusual character. Selections from the operetta "One Eternal Round," written by Gertrude O. Keeler and Nell S. Hatch, of Juarez Stake Relief Society, were directed by Mrs. R. A. Brower of Wells Stake. The occasion was delightful in every respect, and memorable from the resolution which was proposed by Jennie B. Knight and passed unanimously.
RECRUITING OUR RANKS Jennie B. Knight, Member of the General Board
Dear Presidents: The members of the General Board are deeply impressed with what you and your groups have accomplished, and like you, they are vitally interested in the future responsibilities of this very important organization. You select women, are pace-setters, and upon you depends the success of our unparalleled program for the betterment of the family which is still the most important agency of civilization. There is some indifference to our cause among the women of the Church, and time's relentless stream is bearing many of those we love away, and as always, there is need of recruiting our ranks in order that the work may go steadily on. We encourage you in the methods you have adopted in increasing your membership and wish now to call your special attention to a rich source from which to recruit new members—namely, our daughters. To this end it is proposed that we inaugurate a Daughters' Day in all the Relief Societies of the Church. The event has two purposes: first, to magnify the blessing of Motherhood; second, to have daughters, who are not members of the Society, give the program, as a means of interesting them in the activities of the Society so that later they will be anxious to join our ranks. It is desired that you do not change the programs for this event, but that those outlined in the Magazine be used. After the regular business of the day, the entire program, including special music or other features, should be given by the daughters as "guest artists." It is proposed that the day to be set apart as Daughters' Day should be the anniversary of the birth of the General Relief Society President who has given the most daughters to the world. Upon investigation we find this falls upon the anniversary of the birth of Clarissa Smith Williams, the sixth General President, who was the mother of eight daughters. The day is April 21st. It would be a gracious thing if some of the members, the visiting teachers, or neighbors, would occasionally volunteer to care for the little children so that daughters may attend and participate in the activities of the organization. After favorable comment by the Stake Presidents, it was voted unanimously to adopt this plan.
FIRST GENERAL SESSION
WHAT RELIEF SOCIETY MEANS TO THE WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Radie O. Hyde, Pres. Ensign Stake Relief Society
First, may I ask this question, "What does the Relief Society mean to its members?" It means service in its noblest sense; service to God's children, therefore service to God. And through that service rich opportunity for development of self. "I was an hungered and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger and ye took me in, naked and ye clothed me; I was sick and ye visited me; I was in prison and ye came unto me." Thus spoke our Savior in ancient times, but in our time, that same cry of gratitude and thanksgiving has sprung from the throats of thousands of our people and too, the strangers within our gates, who have been fed and clothed and released from prisons of doubt and despair by a great band of Relief Society women engaged in Christ-like service In the early days of the Church when the people were so persecuted, when sickness was rampant with no adequate facilities for combating it, when immigrants were arriving almost daily who must be fed and housed until they could provide homes of their own, the women of the organization had little time for anything but welfare work; however here was a wonderful opportunity for service and because they gave it, and gave it willingly, they came to love it. No night was too long to sit by the bed side of a sick friend or neighbor and minister to his needs and no disease was so dangerous but these same women willingly performed those last loving services of washing and preparing for burial their dead. The educational field has not been neglected. In those first early days even when the women met and planned their welfare work, they discussed current topics of interest and did much to promote faith in each other through testimony bearing; however in reading of the growth and development of the Relief Society we find that many constructive and educational movements, each of particular interest to the women of their time, were undertaken, some of which were national and international in scope. Various other activities too numerous to mention, called for service of a high order. With the introduction of a definite educational program in 1914 new fields of opportunity were opened to our women, until today we might say, that in extent it reaches into the past with an interest in those who made possible the organization, covers the present with an interest in the living, and extends into the future with an interest in the unborn. And now we might ask, What does this constant giving in the interest of others mean to the women of our organization in terms of self? It means spiritual and intellectual development that cannot be measured. And why, we may ask this development? "Give and ye shall receive," that is the law of growth and development, of happiness, and love. Charles H. Spurgeon, the London preacher, graphically illustrates this perfect law of compensation in these words, "If we view the human body we shall find that the heart does not receive the blood to store it up, but while it pumps it into one valve it sends it forth to another. The blood is always circulating, never stagnant. So it is with all the secretions of the body. If the cells should begin to store their secretions that store would soon become the cause of disease and the organ would soon lose its power to function at all. The whole of the human system lives by giving. Let us learn then from this analogy of nature, the lesson, that to get we must give; that to accumulate we must scatter, that to make ourselves happy we must make others happy; and that to get good and become spiritually vigorous, we must do good and seek the spiritual good of others." Perhaps the first great virtue that this gratuitous service engenders in the hearts of our women is charity; not alone the charity of alms giving, but that greater charity written of so beautifully by Paul; the charity that embraces kindness, patience, humility, forgiveness—all the graces in a lesser degree perhaps, which characterized the greatest Servant of all, Jesus Christ. Affiliation with the Relief Society develops some of the finest social contacts one could ask for, without which many humble modest souls would have little or no social life. Especially is this true of the work department which also offers wonderful opportunities for the development of creative thinking and planning. Service in the Relief Society develops responsibility, and responsibility develops undreamed of powers. The educational department offers rich opportunity for intellectual development; opportunity not only for acquiring knowledge but of even more importance, opportunity for self expression, initiative, and leadership, thus helping our women to discover in themselves gifts and talents of which they were wholly unaware. Spiritual development is a natural outgrowth of service in the Relief Society. Woven into the very fabric of the whole organization like a golden thread woven in a beautiful carpet, giving it color and warmth and life, is this wondrous, intangible thing we call spirituality; the thing that sets it apart from all other women's organizations. It is this spiritual development of the women that has taught them the joy of sacrifice, given them courage to combat opposition, and the strength to meet adversity. Indeed we might say that spirituality is to the Relief Society what the late B. H. Roberts says Revelation is to the Church, "The source of her strength, the secret of her power, the means of her growth." Jesus Christ it was who dignified service, devoting his life to teaching and blessing doubting, suffering humanity, but through that service he developed a personality so effective that even today, centuries after his death, he is being increasingly accepted. It may not be within the power of our women to serve and develop through that service as did Jesus Christ, but it is within their power to so serve that when the time comes for them to meet their Maker, he may say to them, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren ye have done it unto me," "Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." What the Relief Society means to its members in terms of service, and through that service development of self, it may mean to each woman in the Church if she so chooses, and my humble prayer is that more and more, the women of the Church will come to a fuller understanding of, and a greater appreciation for, the worth-whileness of the Relief Society Organization.
OUR HERITAGE Lotta Paul Baxter, Member General Board
Over 55 years ago a little girl watched with mingled admiration and wonder, a woman hurry through her household tasks in order to have time to go out and do something for the sick and the needy. Just what that work consisted of was also mystifying. That it had a great appeal was self-evident, and seemed to bring satisfaction and comfort to the woman. The little girl resolved that when she grew to womanhood, she too would do that kind of work. I was that little girl, and the happy, resourceful Relief Society worker was my mother. We were not different from scores of other mothers and daughters. We represented a type—a type that is legion throughout the Church. But is this desire of daughters to follow in the footsteps of their mothers increasing or diminishing? Have our big interests in life been of great enough importance to inspire our daughters eagerly to follow us? This Relief Society work is an heritage given to us by such women as these: Emma Smith, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa S. Williams, Louise Y. Robison, and our own mothers and grandmothers. Are we willing to let this heritage slip from our hands that it may be given to another people? Are we holding high the torch of enthusiasm that illuminates this work? Do we help our daughters to leave their children on Relief Society day? Let us make Tuesday a mothers' and daughters' day the year round and bind closer this sacred tie of relationship. Youth and age should mingle together—youth to be inspired by the achievements and experiences of age, maturity and age to seek the youth in order to partake of youthful vision, hope and enthusiasm. Are clubs and other interests encroaching upon our field of activity? With no thought of depreciating the worth of these other organizations which women are interested in, and rightly so, we still maintain that we have a program of such varied interests that the needs and desires of all women can find expression herein. Our Work and Business day can be made one of the busiest, happiest and most productive days in the month. Our Singing Mothers chorus offers opportunities not readily found in the average organization. Our Theology and Testimony, Literature, Social Service, and Teachers' Topic lessons offer the members an avenue of inspiration to better and more profound reading and research than is found in other courses of study. I wish to pay my tribute of appreciation to the ward workers, who are constantly searching out the women who seem to have been forgotten and bringing them into the fold. Let us be just as diligent in seeing that our daughters are enthusiastic, happy Relief Society workers. A few thoughts for the coming summer: More enthusiasm for the possibilities of Relief Society; Magnify the value of youth and age learning and working together; Make Tuesday a mothers' and daughters' day during the entire year; Recognize Relief Society as an heritage in its fullest sense.
FORWARD Mary C. Kimball
Objectives shape the destiny of individuals, organizations and causes. The objectives of the Relief Society were set forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith and its first president, Emma Smith. These objectives are as wide as humanity, as far-reaching as the needs of God's children. They embrace the intellectual and the spiritual. They foster love of God and love of fellow men. Who with such goals marked out could fail to reach the heights? Since the organization there has been a forward march in an effort to realize the objectives thus set forth. The organization more nearly approaches its standards today than ever before. As we look back we realize that the history of the organization is glorious, and that it has ever pressed forward. The obligation today is to build on the splendid foundation laid by those who have labored in the past, so that the super structure shall be as fine as the foundation merits. If we would go forward, we must not get into ruts. If we would meet the needs of the present and the future, we must not think because something was good yesterday that it necessarily is the best thing for today. We must learn to face things squarely, think them through clearly, and thus meet every problem as it arises in the best possible way. We must not think because the Government has done so much for its people that the service angle of Relief Society is a thing of the past. There are still children who need clothing; there are still mothers who need to be trained in sewing and household arts; there are still those who need bread, and perhaps more than ever before there are many who need spiritual uplift. While the great educational program in the past has served more people than have been reached by looking after their physical needs, the call for all officers and members today is to go out into their wards and bring in those who are not being benefited by this great organization. There are thousands of women in the Church who need an outlet for their talents and ability, for their handicraft and mental and spiritual gifts which this organization affords. While thousands of women have learned to think intelligently on their feet and to express themselves clearly and have learned to appreciate the Gospel more thoroughly, to drink in the beauties of literature, to know how complex are the social problems of life, there are many who have not yet been reached. They should be brought in and be made vitally interested and active. There are many who are attending our organizations who are timid and backward and who need to be brought forward and to find joy in participating in the class work. A big percentage should take part in the lesson work. Teaching should be more effective that the things taught may be put into life. More religion should be brought to people who are spiritually starved. Every Relief Society officer and member should resolve to: speak more kindly, pray oftener, carry love and optimism, keep closer contact with the divine. The Relief Society women, because of their great organization and the unity with which they press forward, have greater power than any other women in the world to preserve, cherish and promote civilization, to increase spirituality, to uplift the community and to press forward purposefully. So forward this great organization marches, learning each week more about life, about its ideals and its problems, doing the needed things, knowing that for "web begun God sends the thread," having ever a sense of eternity which makes for deep thinking and noble living.
RELIEF SOCIETY AWAKE TO CIVIC RESPONSIBILITIES Hazel H. Greenwood
Today when woman is entering successfully into various fields of labor in the professions and the business world, it is necessary for her to acquaint herself with the underlying principles of government and to actively engage in movements that will safeguard and build up the community and the home. The world has made greater progress in the last one hundred years than in any similar length of time in all history. But there is no material progress in that time greater than the progress woman herself has made. This has been due to the position she herself has earned. She is equipped to take a prominent place in public and civic affairs as well as in her home, by her education and training. Woman's greatest province is the home. There her interest centers. To do her part well, she must understand the forces that tend to strengthen the home as well as those seeking to undermine it. She must understand the influences surrounding her family both for good and for evil. It has been said, "The destiny and greatness of America lies around the hearthside." The mother must reach outside the home and study conditions in order to maintain freedom and security within. Voting is one of the privileges of citizenship. The Constitution of Utah granted to women the full right of suffrage. Under the 19th Amendment to the Federal Constitution ratified in 1920 this right was granted to all citizens of the United States regardless of sex. To vote should be regarded by all women as a duty. As long as people who know what is right fail to vote we shall have many things as they should not be. With the changes that have come in economic conditions and the status of women, we have more time for social service of which we are becoming conscious, thus enlarging the mother office, to world ministry. If our Relief Society women throughout the world could fully realize their responsibility, they could be an indomitable force in rehabilitation and raising the standards in all communities. Women of our Church have good conscientious leaders and through their direction the Relief Society will find opportunities to expand their work and to study not only benevolent and religious activity but the manifold duties of every-day life. No other church devotes so much time in training for leadership as ours. No other church emphasizes home making as does our Church. Let us see that we are prepared for this leadership. Our women must rise above prejudice and fault-finding. Find out the facts and base judgments on them. Study local needs and situations and create a sentiment for better conditions. Inform yourselves on the processes of Government. How best to serve our community through our home and our Church is the problem of today. To do this in the best way is to actively take part in the affairs of government by using our franchise, to take part in the social service in our communities through its organizations and educational facilities and to train ourselves to assume leadership.
ALCOHOL EDUCATION Judge Oscar W. McConkie
There is a Japanese proverb which says: "First the man takes a drink, then the drink takes a drink, then the drink takes the man." Lady Astor said: "When I have a good time, I want to know about it." It has been said that the prerequisites of temporal salvation depend upon health, energy and economy. It is not my purpose, this afternoon, to refer to any of those elements classified as spiritual. It is my purpose to confine my remarks to economic, physical and social problems related to the use of alcohol. When championing the American cause in Parliament, Edmund Burke said: "I know not how to frame an indictment against the whole people." If I were called upon to frame an indictment against alcohol it could scarcely be complete without these forty-four counts: It damages the nerves. It acts as a narcotic. It weakens the heart. It lowers resistance. It hinders immunity. It increases the mortality of Typhoid Fever. It lessens nerve sensibility. It lowers blood pressure. It is highly irritative. It hinders digestion. It puts a yoke upon the mental powers, and dulls them. It limits the exercise of faculties so that one cannot judge so wisely, and cannot will so forcefully, nor can he think so clearly. It impairs the physical strength, so that one cannot run so fast, nor jump so high, nor pitch a ball so well. It destroys personal liberty. It irritates the skin. It creates abdominal inflammation. It wastes energy. It creates irritability. It advances weariness. It lessens the sense of shame. It destroys the feeling of family and civic responsibility. It increases arterial pressure and the pulse rate. It affects the heart injuriously. It is detrimental to the whole human economy. It impairs the judgment. It destroys self-control. It detracts from the initiative. It causes more deaths than any other poison. It makes for Tuberculosis. It is responsible for from 75% to 90% of venereal infection. It is the sole cause of alcoholism. It is indirectly responsible for 20% of divorces, for 25% of insanity, for 37% of poverty, for 47% of the misery of childhood, for 50% of crime. It dulls all the senses. It causes inaccuracy of mind, nerve and muscle. It disturbs the body thermostat. It over-works the saliva glands; an alcoholic bath of the mouth increases the flow of saliva. It reverses stomach action. It interferes with the function of the liver, with the function of the bowels, with the function of the kidneys. It increases the flow of the juices in the stomach. It causes the walls of the blood vessels to relax and to enlarge, as is evidenced by the red nose of one given to the use of alcoholic liquor. It slows down the activity of the white corpuscles and impairs their activity. It steals oxygen from the red corpuscles. It interferes with the delivery and collection system of the blood. It is habit forming, so promises continued physical and mental decay. It has long been demonstrated among industrialists that intoxicating liquor brings about a scarcity of men at the top, and increases the great number of men who are qualified only for services at the bottom. We have now had a repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment, which has brought with it a greatly increased consumption of alcoholic liquors, and an annual economic waste of more than six billions of dollars. That means that there will gradually be fewer and fewer men who are able to get to the top in the industrial world. That casts upon the people of the Church, and upon you sisters, the responsibility and the opportunity to see to it that through proper education, teaching and directing of moral forces, your sons and your daughters shall be amongst those who are prepared for the highest places in the industrial world. There are more than 12,000 homicides every year in the United States. A million persons are committed to penal institutions in the United States every year. More than thirteen billions of dollars is the cost of crime in the United States every year. Every year financial crimes alone, such as larceny and embezzlement and forgery cost the United States five billions of dollars. It is wholly impossible to count the cost of crime, or to accurately determine what proportion of it is chargeable to the use of alcoholic liquors. It has been said by students, as I have quoted to you, that 50% of the crimes of our Nation are traceable directly or indirectly to the use of alcoholic liquors. Whether that is an exaggeration, I do not know, but when you contemplate the tremendous financial, physical, mental, and moral impairment, when added to detrimental values, it is apparent that the use of alcoholic liquors is calling for a tremendous financial drain upon the people of the United States, and of course upon the people of the world, but the physical, and the mental, and the spiritual cost of alcohol cannot be measured. The loss of opportunities which come to and are lost to our people because of the use of alcohol cannot be measured, and the loss in shattered hopes and the loss in broken hearts, and the loss in broken wills, and the loss in broken homes, and the economic waste, cannot be measured. The by-products of alcoholic uses, and the suffering they cause, and the dreadful consequences that follow, cannot be measured. As I reflected upon what I should say this afternoon, I sat down to write some notes to refresh my memory, and there came into my office, while I wrote, a woman asking for a divorce, and the whole ground for the divorce was because the man had transferred his affections from his family to alcohol. I mention this simply as a type of the cases that are coming before the courts all the time. There is not a week passes when, in our own communities, homes are not broken, when ties are not severed between husband and wife, between father and children, making repair impossible, because of alcohol, and yet some people who advocate its use have the audacity to say that it is a beverage or a food, and therefore its use is justified. We must teach our children that 50% of alcohol is water; that 91% of beer is water; that 4% of beer is alcohol and 5% is decomposed vegetable matter. Our young people must be made to understand that alcohol affects different people in different ways. It affects the senses differently. It breaks down safeguards, encourages sinful card playing, promotes gambling and immodesty, and destroys the probability of passing through life morally clean, and our young people, and you sisters, are charged with the responsibility through the Church and through this great organization, and by all legitimate methods, to take to your own families, and to the families of your communities, educational training and development, showing how the use of alcohol destroys the home and the individuals within the home, and can bring nothing but remorse and unhappiness and discontent and the loss of hope to those who are given to its use. It is a challenge to intelligence. John Ruskin said, "Education does not mean teaching people what they do not know, but causing them to behave as they do not now behave," and so our young people in our homes and in our societies must be trained to act differently than they have acted in the past, before this terrible blight fastened its fangs upon them and upon the society in which they dwell and amongst which they live. It is not necessary to exaggerate facts. There is sufficient truth. There are sufficient examples about us. We have history to draw from, and all the experience of mankind is that the use of alcohol has brought no happiness, and has always resulted in disease, and so I say we do not need to exaggerate the evils of the use of alcohol. We ought to open our eyes to the world about us. We ought to be militant. We ought not to yield because of false cries about hypocrisy and individual liberty. The very first effect of alcohol is to bring about a deception, and it works a deception upon the man who uses it. In these modern times, when our morals are being tried to the very core, beyond the inclination of many to resist, and our young people, many of them, are casting off the standards of our fathers, necessarily there must be aggressive action upon the part of those who have old-fashioned ideas as to morals and honesty and physical development and financial success. The cry of so-called "broadmindedness"—actually—condonation of sin—must not be permitted to thwart the purposes of the Lord, and temperance is God's plan. We can adapt our educational program to all grades of people. It must be taught to the little ones. It must be taught to you. It must be taught to the middle-aged, and there is no place in life where this teaching can be deferred. It is the responsibility of the well-founded people of the Church, of those who have their feet on the ground, to go into their respective communities and to see to it that no boy or girl is led into these forbidden paths ignorantly. If our people waste their lives they ought to do it through their own rebellion against the principles for which we give our whole energies. Teach the desire for physical strength, and for clearness of mind, and for dependability and for success. They should be taught to earn success by skill and judgment and faithfulness, and should cultivate a high degree of behavior, and they cannot attain this great excellence through the use of alcohol. Teach youth to cultivate positive behavior. Before Prohibition moral suasion was the only remedy that we had and now we revert back to the moral suasion plan. It is imperative that we marshal our forces at this time, when liquor can be so easily gotten, when it is comparatively cheap. We must meet the problem with renewed effort and with renewed energy. The time will come when the pendulum will swing back again. The people of this great land will not forever permit their homes to be broken. They will not forever be content to see the bodies of the men and of the women of the nation broken. The pendulum will swing back again, but until that day comes the responsibility rests upon you to see to it that Alcohol Education is made an institution in every home in the communities where you live, and in your own families and in the families of your friends and of your neighbors. The sons and daughters of the Church are the prizes for which we labor. God bless you and strengthen you that you may be fired with an enthusiasm that shall become so great a pain unto you that it shall stimulate you and fire you with a relentless desire to bring into the mind of every boy and girl, and man and woman in your communities a realization of the evils that follow the use of intoxicating liquors. May God help us that we may be saviors of both civil and ecclesiastical institutions, as well as of the people, I pray in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.
ADDRESS Counselor Kate M. Barker
In our complex life today we are constantly facing new problems. We must choose which of many purposes in life will prove the most satisfactory. With our limited understanding we cannot safely decide such important questions alone. Never did man need more desperately the help of a loving Father. The world needs more religion. Religion is "a way of life" and thus becomes the responsibility of the home. Our Relief Society project "Back to the Scriptures" is a home project—parents and children together catching the spirit of the great truths of experience which have been tested through the ages, and building them into their life today. New ages bring new tests, but the fundamental truths of life remain the same. The core of Jesus' teachings are as true today as when He taught in Palestine. Matthew Arnold says, "To the Bible men will return because they cannot do without it; because happiness is our aim, and happiness belongs to righteousness, and righteousness is revealed in the Bible." Our problem in the home is—how can we get our young people to appreciate the Bible and go to it for inspiration and guidance. We must remember we are teaching the child and not the book and select the messages in accordance with the needs and experiences of those to be taught. Of greatest importance is the idea a child gets of God. It does no good to urge love of God. Love does not come as a duty. It comes spontaneously because of appreciation of the character of the one loved. Children have many fears—fear of the dark, fear of death. It is a tragedy when they learn to fear God. The conception we wish them to get of our Heavenly Father is of a loving Father expecting obedience and trust from His children; a friend, one who can understand and sympathize with His children; the Creator, giver of sunshine and flowers. How can we make Jesus seem real that His life may be our guide? 1. Select the stories and messages of Jesus that will seem real to the children of different ages. 2. Make Christianity seem not a beautiful theory of life to be admired, but a practical system which if lived would solve the problems of the world. 3. Teach them that the truths Jesus taught were not given by Him arbitrarily but had been tested and were given by a kind Father who wished to save us heartache and pain. 4. Show that because of His teachings the world is much brighter today. 5. Have family projects. Get the cooperation of the group and prove that His teachings bring peace and happiness in the home. From our study of His life one of the most valuable truths which we can gain is that the Great Source to which He turned for help is available to all. He kept constantly close to His Heavenly Father through prayer. If He, with His strength, found peace and joy and guidance in prayer; if he prayed and taught others to pray, is not prayer indispensable for us?
ADDRESS President Louise Y. Robison
We are very grateful to our Father in Heaven for the accomplishments of Relief Society during the past year. Our Annual Report is filled with acts of spirituality and kindness which have been manifest by the women of Relief Society. Through the cooperation of President Joseph F. Merrill, of the European Mission, we have been in close touch with our Missions of the European countries as well as those of the islands. Every month a Bulletin is sent to these Missions telling them of our present work. The Membership Card instituted this year was sent to all English speaking countries, and a sample of the card was sent to the President of each of our foreign speaking missions, asking if they wished to have a card printed as nearly like our own as possible. There is hardly a week that letters do not come from Holland, Denmark, and other missions expressing appreciation for the Bulletin and the Membership Cards, as it binds them to us and makes them feel as if they belong to our organization. This condition, too, is manifest in the Relief Society Magazine. A year ago we asked for a drive for Magazine subscriptions, and we hoped there would be a number of Wards who would get a full quota of 100% of their members. The results have been a most joyous experience. Sister Backman, President of the South African Mission Relief Society, sent us in fifty-four subscriptions. What can be done with effort is shown by the report of Sister Colton of the Eastern States Mission. Sister Colton, in talking with one of the officers of one of her branches called attention to the fact that their quota was low, and in three days they sent in seventy-one subscriptions, bringing their total up to 110%. In one of the branches of this same mission they had only four members, but from the time of the organization these four members had each subscribed to the Relief Society Magazine, the influence of which was evident, for it is one of the finest organizations, with a wonderful spirit prevailing. The names of the prize winners in the Magazine contest have been published. One Ward reached 200%. There were 256 wards who made 100% or over. There is a saying of a German philosopher that if anything should be done, it can be done. I think that must have been the slogan of these women, and it is a very fine thing for us all to have achieved such remarkable success. Some Stakes have adopted the custom of sending subscriptions of the Magazine to their sick members instead of flowers. This Spring we have adopted a very attractive gift card for anyone who subscribes for the Magazine as a gift. Our lesson work has proved most interesting, the class leaders have given excellent service. One young mother has taught Theology (the Doctrine and Covenants) during the whole course. She says that she has averaged two hours a day in study on this, some months seventy hours in preparation. The lovely thing about it is, she feels to thank the Relief Society for the benefit it has been to her. There was no word of complaint for the time she had spent. The Relief Society Singing Mothers have done outstanding work, not only the fine group who have delighted us today with their lovely music, but this activity is carried on all over the Church. A few days ago a letter came from Sister Ramona Cannon, our Relief Society President of the British Mission, who said that in the various branches of the Mission the Relief Society Singing Mothers furnish the music. This is true in many countries. We are thankful for the accomplishments of the past year, and now we want to face the future with our hearts full of courage and faith and determination to do what is required of us. President Clark told us this morning what may be our requirements in the future, and I am sure every Relief Society will be prepared and ready to do the thing that may be given us to do. We all realize that the home is our paramount responsibility. Recently I read a beautiful address given by Dr. Adam S. Bennion, over KSL. Every mother would be thankful if she could have this influence in her home, and there is no reason why she could not. Wealth is not the standard, and I do not know why we could not have this type of home if we worked for it. May I read an extract from Dr. Bennion's address: "Some time ago it was my privilege to take dinner with a family in Idaho. Gathered around the table rich with the bounties of life were father, mother and seven children. All of them joined hearts in a prayer that I shall never forget: "Gratitude for health and food and shelter. "A petition for wisdom; for protection; for direction. "A plea for unity—that every member of the group might bring honor to every other member. "And a prayer that these same good blessings might be granted to all families, brothers and sisters in that great family of Him who presides over all of us. "That scene is a stronger argument for faith than the finest logic I ever heard. There was the happiness of benediction in that home. Its foundations were laid in religion. Ever since that evening I have wished that I might have the genius to pass that recipe on to other homes with such an appeal that they might want to test it out. For such homes are not only havens of happiness—they are our finest safeguards for the preservation of civilization." Sisters, let me repeat the saying of the old German philosopher: "If anything should be done, it can be done." There is not anything unusual or impossible in this, but it is a beautiful thing to strive for. The influence of the home depends largely upon the mother, but the community can either strengthen the home or make it difficult to uphold its standards. We have heard today a thrilling address by Judge McConkie. What are we going to do about it? Are we just going to feel sorry that such things exist? Brother McConkie said he believed the pendulum will swing back, but it will never swing back until people take an active, positive stand; it will never swing back by our simply feeling sorry that such conditions exist. There are in the United States 45,000,000 growing children; 200,000 of these children were brought before the Juvenile Court in one year. Former President Herbert Hoover, commenting upon this condition, said, "We need to turn the method of inquiry from the punishment of delinquency to the cause of delinquency. It is not the delinquent child that is at the bar of judgment but society itself. In addition to the great work of conserving our natural resources, there is a far more vital need, namely to discover a means of protecting our human resources. We need to make a conscious effort to insure to our children an inheritance upon which to build a healthier future for the race. They must not only be physically strong and mentally balanced, but they must have spiritual health." Is there a greater mission for Relief Society mothers than to help bring about this condition? To help mothers not only to have clean, beautiful homes, but where necessary to provide clothing that young people will not be embarrassed to associate with other young people in our organization. Sisters I believe we have neglected this. There are boys and girls who have for the last three or four years grown into youth and early manhood and womanhood under distressing conditions. Parents may be very fine, but they have not had the means to see that their young people have the pretty things that other girls and boys have. Too often we have felt that if they had bread to eat, and coal to burn, our responsibility ended. Too often we have thought that if we help just a little it is sufficient, and people should feel perfectly comfortable and satisfied. These young people have the same longings that yours have, and many of them I believe, are paying a tremendous price in order to get what they wish. Do you supply sufficient bedding for decent living standards? Sisters of the Relief Society, you have been called by men holding the Priesthood, not only to carry your own responsibility, your own load, but you have been considered strong enough to help carry the load of those who are overburdened. Are you carrying it? When you have parties, and your boys and girls are having a good time, do you ever think to invite the boys and girls who have not this opportunity, and who cannot give parties? Have you thought of including them in your homes at Christmas time? Not merely to send a basket, but to make them one of you? We shall never have reached our goal until we are eager and earnest in our efforts to carry the load of these weaker ones. These community problems are of interest to everyone of us. I believe if the mothers of our communities were to ask that Alcohol Education be taught in the schools, it would be done. Refrain from saying if a person drinks he is an outcast, or that he is not intelligent, rather teach the children to know just what alcohol does to the mind and to the body. Let youth grow up with standards. If our young people would only feel there is strength in living up to standards instead of feeling that it is more courageous to do as other people do! I have a little clipping here from Dr. Leavitt, who says: "What can I be loyal to?" "This is a time when traditions are regarded as handicaps, when conventions are said to be shackles, and institutions have lost our confidence. "What can I be loyal to?" "Why be loyal to anything? That is a vital question. It is the most vital question in life. A great life, a happy life, can only be worked out in terms of loyalty to somebody, something. "With nothing to tie to, with nothing worth tying to, life must be miserable. To suspect, to laugh. To rail against everything indicates spiritual acidosis. How unhappy! "The very soul of man, the God in him, is this necessity to give life to something, and for something. And men will do it anyway, to something unworthy, if nothing worthy can be found. "The purpose of God developing through imperfect phases of life, shaping more perfect expression through loyal lives;—there's the thing to tie to. "Be loyal to life." So let us try and instill in our young people the strength of having standards, and keeping to them when they are out in company. It shows strength to live up to the things we know to be the best for us! A number of years ago we inaugurated a plan of tree planting and home beautification, and fine results followed, but I think if you will look around you will find now many fine trees are being cut down and no new ones planted in their places. I was very much interested in a little article on tree planting. A certain man is trying to have a tree club, and anyone can join this if he will plant one tree a year. He says if a million people joined the club, we would have a million trees planted. An interesting report is made giving details of the countries that are beautiful, solely because of the trees. In the end, the chief product of any society is not motor cars, nor houses, nor plumbing, admirable as these things are, but human beings. Let each of us analyze our actions in our homes, and our communities. Will what we are doing produce stronger, freer, more honest, cooperative human beings? This is not only a challenge to the women of the Relief Society to try and develop increased spirituality, but it is our responsibility. May our Father in Heaven give us the power to hear the call, and strength and courage to carry it forward, remembering if there is a need there is always a way to fill that need. I ask this in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
ADDRESS Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
On the 94th birthday of the Relief Society, which occurred some three weeks ago, the organization had good reason for rejoicing because of both past accomplishments and future prospects. With its marvelous background and with its army of some 70,000 members united in effort, devoted to its cause, as few women are devoted to any cause, all willing to serve and strive, there would seem to be nothing it cannot accomplish. Although the Relief Society is a small organization compared with many other great national organizations of women in the country, some of which are twice, three times, five times or ten times its size, it is second to none in the nature of its cause, in the ability of its members to work unitedly and unselfishly in this cause, and in their unbounded faith in and loyalty to one another. What a fine thing it would be if we could resolve, at the outset of this our 95th year, to begin to feature more than ever before those things which of all other things are the most important and worthwhile, those things which are spiritual in nature and eternal in endurance, so that on our 100th birthday, in 1942, we could as an organization, as individuals and as Latter-day Saints reap the spiritual blessings which such a revival of religious enthusiasm might bring. Today the whole world is troubled. Problems have arisen the solution of which seem to baffle the wisest. Human greed and selfishness stalk the earth. Suspicion abounds. There seems to be a lack of brotherhood between man, and more serious than all, there is in many places a definite spirit of irreligion. And these influences are reaching into the homes and schools and threatening the faith of the people. We think of the home as the cornerstone of religious life, and if it is not strong, the whole religious fabric is weakened. One of the greatest needs of today is a reawakening to spiritual ideals which would in turn motivate men and women to a renewal of faith in God. We must trust the Lord throughout the eternities, why not trust him here and now? If we would have spirituality, we must live for it and work for it day by day, for it will take effort as well as resolutions to gain it. To be strong we must overcome. Some one has truly said, "We cannot gain muscles on a bed of eider-down." A spiritual life means discipline, self-denial and conforming to definite ideals, standards and laws. It means purging ourselves of selfishness, greed and sin. It means the practice of the simple virtues so beautifully taught by the Savior, one of whose rules of life is, "All things whatsoever you would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them." It is true that we have implanted strongly within us the instinct of self-preservation which, if we are not careful, becomes so all embracing that we forget the importance of the preservation of the lives of others, the importance of their anxieties, their hopes and fears, their longings and needs. Nations also have this self-same idea of self-preservation which, if emphasized out of all proportion to its importance and carried out at the expense of others, brings disaster. There should be a reconciliation of this idea of self-preservation with the highest and loftiest of our spiritual ideals, if we would keep the second of the two great commandments and love our neighbors as ourselves. We as Latter-day Saints have fixed principles and abiding convictions. Let us lay hold of these gifts and blessings. We have divine injunctions which have been given to us authoritatively and directly, and ' which we know so well. Let us obey these. We have set out for us a way of life which may be different but which embraces all phases of practical, efficient every-day living, which teems with abundant opportunity for spiritual development and which eventually leads to salvation. This way of life may be acquired even as a habit is acquired—by constant practice. If to live this life sets us apart from others, if it means being different, then let us be different. Notes to the Field Work and Business Department HE earliest activity of the Relief Society was sewing for the poor. Not in many years, not even in War time, was the opportunity for that work more apparent, than during the past season. — Lack of proper and warm clothing for children during the last winter kept many of them from school and Sunday School attendance. It is reported that others attended so poorly clad that teachers called for contributions of clothing. To feed the hungry and clothe the naked is essentially the work of the Relief Society. To be aware of this responsibility and be ready at all times to assume it, is a Christian act which brings its own rewards. Now, during the summer months. When the need is not so pressing, is a good time to make plans and prepare for future needs. RADUATION time is almost here. Suitable clothing for this event becomes a real problem to many mothers. Let us give a helping hand. In cleaning closets, chests, etc., find those articles of clothing that we can do without and share with those less fortunate. It is surprising what wonders can be wrought by the mother who can remodel. A little dye, some alteration, a different bow or flower will transform the old apparel into something new and beautiful. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN - KATE M. BARKER - JULIA A. F. LUND Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B. Knight Lalene H. Hart Lotta Paul Baxter Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Elise B. Alder Inez K. Allen Ida P. Beal Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith Rosannah C, Irvine Nettie D. Bradford - - - President - - - - First Counselor - - - Second Counselor: General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y, Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Marcia K, Howells RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: -: -:: - = 1 cate Kimball Manager - Louise Robison Assistant Manager: Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXIII MAY, 1936 No. 5 EDITORIAL Good Will Month N order that good-will may become constructively potent a number of organizations are working unitedly together during Universal Good Will Month. All interested are asked to work during the month of May to further this cause. Suggestive programs are being sent out. The following invocation is being distributed widely: "Let the forces of light bring illumination to all mankind. Let the spirit of peace be spread abroad. May men of Goodwill everywhere meet in a spirit of cooperation. Let power attend the efforts of the brothers of humanity. May forgiveness on the part of all men be the keynote of this time." The week beginning Sunday, May 3d, the subject will be '""Good-Will, The Basis of Human Relations". The thought for the week is "In the presence of conscious good-will, Light is obtained on all questions". The week beginning Sunday, May 10th, '"Good-Will, The Basis of National Progress". The thought for the week is "Let Good-Will be manifested among all citizens, that the nation may move forward truly". The week beginning Sunday, May 17th, "Good-Will, The Basis of World Peace". The thought for the week is 'Peace is only possible among men and nations striving for Good-Will". The week beginning Sunday, May 24th, "Good-Will, The Healer of the Past and the Hope of the Future". The thought for the week is "Past injuries dissolve, future fears fade when Good-Will is tried". Sunday, May 3lst, religious leaders are asked to deliver messages on Mutual Forgiveness"'. Adequate Care for Mothers A VERY valuable part of Mother's Day thought is the movement to bring to the attention of the people of the United States the needless waste of life of mothers in childbirth and to rouse people to demand better maternity care. The Maternity Center Association has for its keynote for the sixth annual Mother's Day Campaign, 336 "Early and adequate care reduces the risks of motherhood: Father plays a leading role." Our maternal mortality is over 15,000 a year, and experts estimate that over half of these deaths could be prevented. It is appalling to think that 8,000 mothers died last year who did not need to die. The social consequences of these deaths is beyond computation. The problems that attend broken homes help to fill the delinquency courts and to bring disaster to many. "The crime of it is that although we know enough to prevent these deaths, they are not being prevented, The general death rate never was lower. Diphtheria and tuberculosis are on their way out as public health problems. We know enough to reduce maternal mortality as much as tuberculosis has been reduced during the past quarter of a century. But the death rate among mothers has remained nearly stationary since we have had statistics in the United States. "It is also interesting to note that maternal deaths last year were nearly half as numerous as automobile fatalities about which the Nation was so thoroughly aroused. There were 15,000 known maternal deaths compared with 36,400 automobile deaths. "Tt also does not redound to our credit that the maternal mortality rate in the United States is one of the highest in the world. While this statement has been questioned from time to time because of the different methods of classification of deaths in various countries, the United States Children's Bureau in a recent study of the subject declared that ""No matter what method of procedure is used, the United States retains an exceedingly high rate as compared with other countries." Careful study has been made how RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to prevent this waste of life and this six-fold program has been suggested by this organization to answer the question, "What is adequate maternity care?" 1. A complete medical examination early in pregnancy. 2. Regular and frequent medical supervision of prospective mothers. 3. An aseptic delivery under the supervision of an obstetrician. 4. Supervision, care and instruction until the mother is able to resume her work. 5. Examination of the mother at six weeks, three months, six months and one year after the baby is born. 6. Arrangements for continuous medical supervision of the baby. The Maternity Center Association says the responsibility rests upon: "First, the prospective parents themselves. One of the purposes of this special Mother's Day effort is to tell expectant mothers what care they should have. The late Dr. Whitridge Williams of Johns Hopkins University said: 'When the women of America realize the value and need for maternity care they will demand it. Then and only then will they get it.' "Second, the medical profession generally and each member of that profession who cares for pregnant mothers. This group as a whole is struggling virtually unaided in many communities. "Third, the social and health agencies, public and private. The duty of this group is to find mothers in early pregnancy and to direct them to places where adequate care is given." It is hoped most earnestly that in every community every possible effort will be put forth to make childbirth safe, so that no mother will die needlessly, and that every baby will have a safe birth. L. D.S. You cannot build a great BRIDGE without a blue print. You cannot construct a RAILROAD without a survey. Neither can you mold a SUCCESSFUL CAREER without a plan. Ask for our booklet "Planning Your Future" L. D. S. Business College 70 North Main Wasatch 1812 Salt Lake City, Utah  THE INTERIOR WALL FINISH A LOWE BROTHERS Product with extra high gloss—in nine beautiful colors for walls and woodwork. Dries hard over night, easy to clean. Get free color card. SALT LAKE GLASS & PAINT CO. 35 E. On 1st South St. Salt Lake City, Utah Franchised Distributor for Imperial Washable Wallpapers Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE IS SOLD ON MERIT Our first concern is for sound financial security. Our next aim is to pass on to our policyholders additional concessions and benefits accruing from careful management. A FINANCIAL STATEMENT, DECEMBER 31, 1935 In Accordance with the Report Filed with the State Insurance Departments of the States under. Which We Operate ASSETS LIABILITIES 3.36 Cash in Office and Banks..........$ 390,699.71 Policy Reserves......$9,160,114.27 Bonds This amount with interest 12.6 U. S. Government..$1,467,225.11 and future premiums 24.7 State & Municipal 2,861,200.46 9 Railroad 104,190.39 33. They mate in 2.1 Public Utility 247,184.44 1.1 Industrial.. 131,249.26 Contingency Res. Fund 550,000.00 Total Bonds-$4,811,049.66 || Policy Div. Left at Int. 493,009.50 8 Stocks, 96,303.10: | Dividends Apportioned to 24.5 First Mortgage Loans & Contracts Policies 263,916.44 On City Prop'ties..$1,558,263.38 Capital Stock.. 250,000.00 On Farm Prop' ties 1,289,662.41$2,847,925.79 Unassigned Surplus.... 750,000.00 2.9 Real Estate Owned.. O....336,390.17 *98.6 per cent for Protection and " 23.9 Loans to Policyholders.............. 2,781,980.12 Benefit of Policyholders.......... 11,467,040.21 1.12 Interest Due and Accrued........ 129,911.38.2 Policy Claims as they mature (proofs not yet received) Anticipation Warrants.............. 877.19.. 24,257.50 2.02 Net Premiums in Course of.7 Premiums Paid in Advance... 80,734.45 Collection 285,815.50. I; (Premiums due but not received.84 Estimated for Taxes................ 40,000.00 Dec. 31. A reserve of like amt. .16 All Other Liabilities 18,920.41 is set up in our liabilities.)TOTAL ASSETS...$11,630,952.57, $11,630,952.57 Attention is called to the fact that 98.6% of the total assets are set aside for the benefit and protection of Policyholders.: In addition to the required reserves, Beneficial policyholders' interests are safeguarded by surplus and contingent reserves amounting to ONE MILLION FIVE HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS. IF IT'S A BENEFICIAL POLICY... IT'S THE BEST INSURANCE YOU CAN BUY CIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Home OFFICE SALT Lake City, Uran HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT & DIRECTOR LEO. E. PENROSE, ASST. SECRETARY J. REUBEN CLARK JR., IST VICE-PRES. & DIR. VIRGIL Hl. SMITH, ASST. SECRETARY DAVID O. MCKAY, 2ND VICE-PRES. & DIR. EARLE W. PEIRCE, ASST. TREASURER GEO. J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRES,. & DIR. EUGENE P. WATKINS, SUP. R. E. LOAN DEPT. AXEL B. C. OHLSON, SECRETARY & DIRECTOR WALDO M. ANDERSON, AGENCY SUPERVISOR JOS. FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR DR. W. R. CALDERWOOD, MEDICAL DIRECTOR ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR ASHBY D. BOYLE, ATTORNEY STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR She. A RELIEF SOCIETY AZAZINE Volume XXIII JUNE, 1936, No. 6 Jos AE Everett HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS From Factory To You—We Solicit Your Mail Orders New Style wee. Eee$.65 No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' Ladies' New Style only.............. 85 New Style 1.10 No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Rayon, men's and ladies' 1.10 a. No. 83. Extra Fine Silk-Rayon No. 81. A Wt. Old Style, Double - "Double Combed Yarn. Better and 50 Than Part Wool. This Comes No. 86. Extra Fine Rayon and Double in Winter Weight Men's New Combed Yarn. Ladies' New Style.... A 1.65 Style Only 1.25 Short Sleeves, Ankle Length We Mark Garments For 10c We Charge 10% Extra For Extra Sizes. Please Specify When Ordering Your Bust, We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United Trunk and Length, Whether New or Old States. Style, and if Men's or Ladies'. THIS IS ALSO THE PLACE TO OUTFIT THE MISSIONARY WITH ONE OF THOSE FAMOUS RAMBOULLETTE SUITS This is one of our Specials WE HAVE A LARGE ASSORTED Our Famous MENT OF HEAVY WORSTEDS AT Ramboullette 8 15 Serge. C Extra Single or r Pants, $4.00 Double Breast. Extra Pants, $4.00 WE ALWAYS GIVE SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO THE MISSIONARY 14 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH It Helps UTAH.... It Helps YOU! From early pioneer days, Utah people have seen the advantages of supporting local industries. As a result of this cooperation, the Utah Oil Refining Company has grown to be one of the largest industrial enterprises in the intermountain region. In 1935 this company paid out $2700.00 every hour, 40 hours every week, for wages, freight and taxes. This huge amount of money, circulating and recirculating here, helps Utah business—helps you! Ask for a free copy of "Travel Hints'"— and plan more interesting trips this summer. GASOLINE UTAH OIL REFINING COMPANY Hundreds of Service Stations and Dealers in Utah and Idaho Distributors of Atlas Tires, Batteries, Accessories... And Stanolind Products When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 88. Lt. Weight Men's and Ladies' No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles..$.85 "Watch the pennies and the dollars will watch themselves." Shop consistently at an O. P. Skaggs System Store for a month or more and then count the dollars you have saved. O.P SKAGGS Efficient Service System STORES "A Surety of Purity" Service Above All SALT LAKE PROVO OGDEN PRICE PAYSON MANTI DESERET MORTUARY CO. (Crystal PALACE Market 1st South at 3rd East—17th South at 5th East South Temple at 2nd East We Give and Redeem DIKE Discount Stamps. "We Feature" Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products "When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vou. XXIII JUNE, 1936 No. 6 CONTENTS
Cycle......................................Alberta H. Christensen 337 Hillside—Frontispiece............................Frontispiece 338 Address...................................President Heber J. Grant 339 To My Mother.................................Ivy Williams Stone 342 A Tribute................................President Louise Y. Robison 347 I Love the Technocrats.................................H. R. Merrill 349 Ensembles in Flower Arrangement............................Jean Cox 351 Father Has His Day................................E. Cannon Porter 353 Social Security Program, Western States........Judge Hugo B. Anderson 356 On the Trails of the Old Kaibab.......................Elsie C. Carroll 363 Woman's Responsibility as a Buyer of Textiles and Clothing.....Vilate Elliott 367 Happenings....................................Annie Wells Cannon 371 Understanding Our Children.........................Virginia B. Jacobsen 373 A Tribute to Father................................Carol Lyon Ash 374 Do the Compensations of Motherhood Overbalance Its Responsibilities?........Edith L. Anderson 375 The Awakening..................................Edna May Irvine 378 A Challenge to Parents on Summer Nutrition Standards........Anna Page 380 Relief.....................................Emma Rigby Coleman 384 His Mother..................................Irene McCullough 385 First Aid for the Picture Passion....................Lorene Pearson 387 To Spring..................................Beatrice E. Linford 388 The Land of Books................................Maude O. Cook 389 Hail the Day Triumphant..........................Ida R. Alldredge 391 The Way..................................Elizabeth H. Welker 392 Notes to the Field................................................ 394 Notes from the Field.............................................. 395 Editorial: Welcome June!.......................................... 399 Father's Day.................................................... 399 A Testing Time................................................. 400 A Needed Admonition............................................ 400 "And Never Will"?.............................................. 401 A Study of Civic Sociology as a Foundation for Intelligent Living.... 402
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
150 Living Room Suites to select from $39.50 to $275.00
We Give "S. H." Green Trading Stamps
Reinforced Rubber Garden Hose—25 Feet $1.25 10-inch Wheels, Ball Bearing, Self Adjusting— 14-inch Lawn Mower, $5.95
Visit Our Economy Basement OUT OF THE HIGH RENT DISTRICT
GRANITE FURNITURE CO. 1050 East 21st South, Sugarhouse Murray Park City WE DELIVER EVERYWHERE
DEMAND UTAH BEET SUGAR At no extra cost you help the farmers and wage earners of your own state which directly or indirectly benefits you.
L. D. S. TEMPLE GARMENTS Of Superior quality and workmanship manufactured for the SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE And sold at prices defying competition. When ordering from us remember we Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States.
No. FOR LADIES No. FOR MEN 608 Light Weight Ribbed $. 97185 Ribbed Summer Weight 685 Light Weight Cotton Ribbed 703 Ribbed Light Weight 610 Flat Weave Spring Needle 750 Light Weight Spring Needle 602 Non-Run Rayon 3 719 Extra Fine Quality Lisle 614 Ribbed Light Weight 762 Medium Weight Extra Quality 620 Non-Run Rayon 4 7192 Medium Lt. Wt. Double Back 664 Fine Quality Cotton Lisle 1.50 Med. Heavy Wt. Cot. Dble Back.. 1.50 634 Non-Run Super Bemberg Silk 1.50 7134 Non-Run Super Bemberg Silk.... 1.25
Garments Marked Upon Request. 10c Per Pair Extra Prices Subject to Change Without Notice. 20% Extra Charge for Sizes Over 46.
Do not fail to specify New or Old Style and if for Man or Woman. Also state if long or short sleeve, short or long legs are wanted. Give accurate Bust Measurements. Height and Weight. Samples Sent Upon Request.
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah—OLDEST KNITTING STORE IN UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
BREAD Is Your Best ENERGY FOOD
Fisher's Better Breads supply energy for vitality and protein for muscle-building and repair. Be sure your daily diet contains at least six slices of Fisher's Bread.
FISHER'S Vitamin "D" Breads White and Whole Wheat Fisher's Rye, Fisher's Rolls, Fisher's Cakes
Baked by the AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY The Large Home-Owned Bakery Salt Lake City, Utah
Have newly-finished, colorful woodwork in your home— BENNETT'S Gloss Interior Finish will transform the appearance of your walls and woodwork. It is a fine enamel-like paint in 16 beautiful shades and tints. Dries overnight to a hard, brilliant finish.
At all Bennett Dealers, and BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. 61-65 West First South St. Salt Lake City
Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders
Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices
General Board Relief Society Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building
BEFORE YOU BUY ANY AUTOMATIC REFRIGERATOR You owe it to yourself to see
THE NEW 1936 ELECTROLUX Automatic GAS Refrigerator
With no machinery at all—just a tiny gas flame, silent as a candle—the Gas refrigerator never makes a sound, and never can. It's the only refrigerator that can offer all these long-life advantages:
No moving parts to wear... Lasting efficiency. Continued low operating cost. Fullest food protection... Savings that pay for it.
Have one installed for as little as $5 down. Easy terms.
MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY 36 South State Salt Lake City Wasatch 1300 Serving 21 Utah Communities
A word to the Bride
Amid the excitement of preparation for the happy event, it is comforting to know that your wedding stationery is correct in form and in the latest mode. See our beautiful new stock of social stationery and let us handle this detail for you, assured that it will receive the most painstaking care. Prices very modest. Call or write for samples
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS PIONEER PRINTERS AND BINDERS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
AN INTERESTING OLD DOCUMENT. THE ORIGINAL IS OWNED BY MRS. EDWARD I. RICH
CYCLE By Alberta H. Christensen
"I wish, my dear, you'd wear the sort of hat Your mother wore," my father often said, "A drooping brim with flowers and a bow. These strange new things that tilt this way and that Look quite absurd, I think, upon your head."
I fretted—just to tease—but wondered why Some magic bound him to a day gone by.
Tonight another man—with graying hair— Said to our daughter—turning seventeen, "Why don't you ever wear a frock of green, A crisp bouquet pinned neatly at the waist? The things you moderns wear reveal no taste!"
I saw her frown and on her full young lip Resentment lurked, then father-like he said, "There, there Lynette," and kissed her auburn head.
The years came back: recalled a buried moon— A lighted lawn with lanterns in the air.

I did not speak, but as I neared his chair, Within his eyes, although my own were wet, I caught the gleam that neither could forget.
A leghorn hat! A gown of years ago! Oh once I could not see how dreams can bind,

But now I know Mary Teasdel.
HILLSIDE
The Relief Society Magazine VOL. XXIII JUNE, 1936 No. 6
Address By President Heber J. Grant (Delivered at the Relief Society Conference, Friday, April 3, 1936)
I am sure that none of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are more grateful and thankful for a Prophet of God, than are the members of the Relief Society. The fact that Joseph Smith, the instrument in the hands of the living God in establishing again upon the earth the Gospel of Jesus Christ, saw fit to organize the Relief Society, and to tell of the wonderful things which they were to accomplish, fills our hearts with gratitude upon this, and all other occasions.
I am grateful indeed that it fell to my lot to be perhaps as intimate with Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith and Aunt Emmeline B. Wells, from the time that I was a little child until they passed away, as any of the brethren. My mother, being president of the 13th Ward Relief Society for thirty long years, with Bathsheba Smith as one of her Counselors, and with Aunt Emmeline B. Wells as Secretary, I cannot remember when I did not know these sisters and was intimate with them.
I have perhaps announced before, but I will announce again, that in a meeting of some of the Presidents of Ward Relief Societies held in the Salt Lake Stake, which then embraced the entire County of Salt Lake, I was a child, playing on the floor. Eliza R. Snow had the gift of tongues, and Sister Zina D. Young gave the interpretation, and predicted that I should live to be one of the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ in this last dispensation. Naturally, I have been very grateful for that splendid blessing given to me. At that time I did not understand it, I did not comprehend it—did not know anything about it. Being an only child, my mother having no one to leave me with, and living in poverty, I was a regular attender at Relief Society meetings, and have often remarked that I was almost entitled to be counted as a charter member of the 13th Ward society.
I am delighted today with all that I have heard. I have never attended one of your General Conference meetings but what I have partaken of the very fine and splendid spirit, and it is the spirit that gives life. Preaching and talking means but very little unless our lives are lived in perfect harmony with our teachings. It is under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord when speaking that our words carry conviction to the hearts of men. I have listened to a great many men pray and preach, when their remarks made no impression upon me, knowing their lives, and of their neglect or failure to do their duty in the Church. I was with a man at one time who shook hands with a great speaker, and said, "I did not hear a word you said today," (he was not a member of the Church, by the way), "your acts thunder so loud I could not hear anything you said."
It is by our acts, it is by the Spirit of the Living God that abides with us, that we are able to accomplish in the battle of life those things that are for our advancement and the advancement of those with whom we come in contact.
The spirit of the Relief Society is one of charity, long suffering, forgiveness, and that is the finest spirit in the world. I call to mind a certain man guilty of immorality. He claimed to have repented, and asked to be forgiven. The Apostles had tried this man, and President John Taylor wrote a letter in which he stated that he could be baptized provided each and every member of the Council of the Twelve gave their consent, as they had tried the case, and he could not be baptized if there was one solitary man of the Twelve who would not give his consent. He said, "I want every man to vote in accordance with the conviction of his heart, not simply to make it unanimous, unless in his heart of hearts he is in favor of the baptism." The vote was taken, and was, as I remember, six to six. Time rolled on, and a vote was taken again, and it was eight to four. Some months rolled on and it was taken again, and it was ten to two, and finally I happened to drop into the President's office (I was one of the two) and he said to me, "Brother so and so was in yesterday and has given his consent for this man to be baptized, how do you feel about it?" I said, "I am perfectly willing to vote for him to be baptized if you want me to, but you know what you put in your letter, that a man should vote according to the convictions of his heart, and my convictions are that he is not fit to be baptized. I maintain that a man who could be guilty of the crime he was, and lie about it, and claim that the woman had slandered him, and finally learning he was guilty of immorality twice, such a man, in my judgment, ought to stay out of the Church." "Well," he said, "all right." I said, "You just tell me to vote yes, and I'll vote." "Oh no, I'll never tell you, my boy," (he often referred to me as "My Boy"), "stay with your conviction, but how will you feel if you should get to heaven and this man appears and says, 'I repented in sack cloth and ashes for the wrong that I had done, but this man (pointing to you) would not allow me to be baptized.'" I said, "I shall just feel fine, and I will look the Lord square in the eye, and I will tell Him any man who would accuse a woman of blackmail, and being a liar, and was not only guilty once but twice of losing his virtue, so to speak (of course he did not have his virtue the second time) I do not think he is fit to be in the Church." "All right, my boy, stay with your conviction, but suppose he should die before baptism." I said, "Let him die."
On the way from the President's office I looked at my watch, and found that if I walked to my office, which was three blocks away, and back again, I would only have from three to five minutes to be in the office, so I decided to go home and read a little before lunch. At the time I was reading the Doctrine and Covenants prayerfully, humbly, systematically. There was a book mark in it, but when I picked it up it did not open at the mark, thank the Lord. I opened it at the following passage:
"I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men.
"And ye ought to say in your hearts—let God judge between me and thee, and reward thee according to thy deeds."—Doctrine and Covenants 64:10-11.
I just shut up the book and put my hat on and walked right back to President Taylor's office. When I shut the book up I said, "If the devil asks for baptism and says he has repented I will baptize him." When I got to the President's office and told him I had come to give my consent that this man be baptized, he sat in his chair and indulged in one of his regular habits, to laugh and shake his body. "Well, my boy, my boy, my boy, how did it happen? It is so sudden." I told him how it happened and he said, "When you left here a few minutes ago did you not feel you could enjoy striking this man between the eyes, especially when you thought what if he had destroyed the virtue of your wife, or of your daughter?" "That is just the way I felt." President Taylor said, "How do you feel now?" I answered, "I hope the poor old sinner can be forgiven." He said, "Heber, I put that clause in that letter for you and for my son John. Old men for charity, for love, for forgiveness; young men for justice. You have learned your lesson young in life. If I had told you to vote to have this man baptized it might have been fifty years before you learned this fine lesson. You have learned today that charity and forgiveness are marvelous things for us to cultivate. It brings happiness and joy and peace to the human heart when you forgive people who are really and truly repentant of their sins."
Since that time there has been twenty-six different changes in the Presidency and Apostles of the Church, and so from that time until now I can say that I have been grateful indeed for having learned that lesson in my youth, and there is nothing in the world that is more splendid than to have in our hearts a desire to forgive the sinner if he only repents, but I want to say do not forgive the sinner if he does not repent. "By this ye shall know that a man has repented, that he confesses his sin and forsakes it, and is guilty no more." It is up to the Lord, however, and unless they confess their sin we are not obligated to forgive, but when they really and truly repent it is one of the obligations that rest upon us to forgive those who have sinned.
I do not want the people outside who wish to come in to the organ recital to have any trouble getting in, and as it is going to take about six minutes for the Singing Mothers to sing, and about a couple of minutes, I suppose, for the benediction, I think that we should not run overtime, although I know we can get out of this building very quickly. It is I think the finest and most splendid building in all the world of its size for exits. You can empty this building in two or three minutes when it is crowded to overflowing, and I never think of this building without being grateful for the inspiration of Brother Brigham Young in planning and designing it.
I sincerely pray for the blessings of the Lord to be and abide with the officers of this association. I repeat again that I have thoroughly enjoyed everything that I have heard here, and I echo the sentiments of Brother Clark in regard to my admiration for the Singing Mothers. I naturally have a wonderful admiration for a mother, seeing that my mother was both mother and father to me, as my father died when I was nine days old, and her unquestioned devotion to the Gospel, her love of it, and her magnificent example have been the guiding stars of my life.
May God bless each and all of the mothers of the Church, and particularly those who are laboring in the Relief Society, and all the officers of the various associations throughout the Church, at home and abroad, in the missions all over the world, and I ask it in the name of our Redeemer and Savior. Amen.
The Mother By Ivy Williams Stone
Because she was eighty-three, the birthday party was set for three o'clock. All four of her children had demurred; but the trained nurse, who lived with her under the guise of a young woman needing a home, had been firm in her decision. The weakened heart could no longer endure long hours; there must be no excitement, no confusion, no deviation from the quiet routine that pervaded the little house.
Esther, the eldest of the four children, was phenomenally successful. Due to her dynamic energy and organizing ability, she had built up a house dress factory from the humble beginning of three, foot-power machines to a payroll of two hundred employees. Three hundred dresses were laid for each cutting; rainbows of color moved with true factory precision from one operator to another. Machines that seemed superhuman embroidered, ruffled, hemmed, bound, overlapped, picoted, hemstitched, buttonholed and sewed buttons. Under Esther's capable management house dresses for women had ceased to be creations of drab utility. The combined beauty with durability. They sold. First orders became repeat orders.
Horace, the only son, was a combination horticulturist, florist, botanist, agronomist. His sisters laughingly described him as being able to name anything that grew by its smell. His gardens were famous. His greenhouses were fashionable; no social affair was truly perfect unless the news story read "Decorations by Wardman." People called him "Burbank the Second." But the finest achievement of this man who lived to love flowers was a patented rose. He was the first person to file patent on a living thing. He had carefully, painstakingly, tirelessly nurtured and guarded a sport of nature. Gossip whispered he had been offered a fabulous price by an eastern firm. Soon the WARDMAN ROSE would be on the market, and fame was already knocking at the door of the mild mannered man in his middle forties.
Marie, the third child, was the social success of the family. Marie was acquainted with every caterer, every beautician, every confectioner in the northern part of the state. She knew every successful socialite and every "would-be." She was compiling a "Who's Who" of the state for the governor's wife. She had memorized her Emily Post with more zeal than history students display in learning the Gettysburg Address. She knew what to wear and when to wear it; what to say and when to say it. She was beautiful, truly a lily of the field. And aided with her husband's money and beautician's art she was a well preserved matron, beautiful, charming, poised, popular. Her days and nights were filled with social appointments and obligations. Flitting from one event to another, she was as happy as bees in a clover field.
Grace, the youngest, was a bachelor girl, to her mother's dismay. No need for a husband in her scheme of life. Her apartment was charming, her life as full, her finances as secure as if she had a wealthy, indulgent spouse. Housewives and laborers, students and professors found humor and surcease from the humdrum of their own lives in reading her daily syndicated column of jingles and light verse. Her royalties were substantial and gratifying. Her quick imagination and ready tongue saw jingles in every phase of life which she contacted. The fact that she was forty-five and unmarried held no terror for Grace Wardman. She wrote of her own spinsterhood as readily as she composed rhymes of shopmen and golfers, shop girls and debutantes.
At three o'clock Mrs. Wardman was ready to receive her children. Her birthday was the one occasion throughout the year that all the children came together. Soft, comfortable, specially made shoes covered the bunioned feet that had paced the oxen in the slow trek over the plains. The full sleeves of the black silk dress concealed the arms that were withered and shrunken; real lace fell in soft folds over the hands that were blue veined and twisted from toil. Her deep upholstered chair had been carefully chosen to rest the weakened body that had provided home, food and education for her fatherless children during all their years of dependency. Her hair had been arranged by Marie's favorite beautician. The pale cheeks had been slightly rouged. Around her shoulders the nurse had draped the lavender silk shawl which the busy Esther had ordered sent from a smart shop. It was an exact replica of the one Esther had sent last year, and the year before that.
The dining table almost groaned under the weight of the huge cake which had been baked by Marie's favorite confectioner. It stood five tiers high; eighty candles of blue, three of red. Decorations of an ox-drawn covered wagon, of a mounted Indian with drawn bow, of a buffalo stampede, of a camp fire circle, and artfully designed clumps of sagebrush, all testified that Mrs. Wardman had been a pioneer. Horace had sent a basket of his famed chrysanthemums. It was so huge that the nurse had had to carry out two chairs to give it room. And in a tiny silver vase reposed the first blossom from the patented rose. On the table lay an elaborately tooled leather book. "Jaunty Jingles" in gold lettering marked the book as Grace's last achievement. Volume one of a numbered edition, autographed by the author. Now it was the possession of an old lady; later it would be coveted by avid collectors of first editions.
Mrs. Wardman smiled as she surveyed her gifts. The shawl, the cake, the flowers, the book of jingles. All representing the achievements of her children. The children for whom she had toiled, and sacrificed and struggled. Each had succeeded in the special line of endeavor that had marked his early inclinations. Esther had always organized others to work; Horace had always loved the soil; Marie had forever stood before a mirror; Grace had always hunted words that rhymed. Enthusiastic, energetic, self centered in their ambitions, all had drawn from the mother who never expressed a wish other than to achieve for her children.
They came promptly at three. She had trained them to punctuality. Esther, working until the last minute, still wore her factory uniform. Marie seemed to have stepped from a fashion plate; Horace exuded a faint odor of pungent earth; Grace had a smudge of ink on her face. The nurse hovered near, keeping a watchful eye on her aged patient.
"We should serve immediately," Esther cast an apprehensive eye at the clock. "I left young Higgins cutting and he might make a mistake. A hundred dozen dresses must go out tonight."
"I am going to the Governor's ball tonight," Marie really tried not to look too elated, "so I can't stay too late either. It's a long drive, and I'll need my hair rearranged after we arrive. I am to sit next to the Governor."
"I have to get back to my nursery in time to inspect my rose before the watchmen change shifts. I never leave it unguarded a single moment. I refused ten thousand dollars for that sport, and it would be worth stealing."
"You might look at my latest contribution to the world's literature," suggested Grace, indicating the tooled leather book. "It isn't exactly Miltonic in its theme, but I'll wager a thousand people will buy it where one reads Milton. It's coming out in a cheap edition, so everyone can afford it. But this autographed edition sells for twenty dollars a copy and already it's oversold."
"I sold a thousand dozen dress—" began Esther.
"I am furnishing the flowers for your ball, Marie," interrupted Horace. "My greenhouses are cleaned out. Not a single flower left."
"We have reason to believe Richard will be nominated for lieutenant governor," began Marie. "The party leaders say he is deserving, and with a wife like me—"
"Wherever she goes, whenever she goes Everyone gasps at her wonderful clothes; She will go to the Governor's ball, Beautifully tailored, regally tall; She will sit at the Governor's right Her beauty and jewels a marvelous sight."
so chanted Grace with a wicked smile, bowing before Marie.
"I'm a month behind on my orders," Esther was persistently determined to have an audience. "If I could only get dependable—"
"Early each morning I watch them go Out to the sweatshop to sew and sew; They have no leisure for happy play, They never can know a holiday— That they may earn a meagre pay They literally sew their lives away!"
This time Grace bowed before her sister Esther, who flashed out resentfully:
"It isn't a sweatshop! If the workers would only pay attention to business they could earn—"
"I expect to graft ten shoots from my rose this next spring, a hundred next, and from then on it will be easy. I have an offer—"
"The florist sprouted a brand new rose! And now each morning he hurriedly goes With watering cans and rakes and hoes To care for his wondrous, patented rose!"
Horace laughed with Grace, but Esther cried out challengingly:
"Why don't you make up jingles about yourself? Poke fun at Grace, the spinster!"
"Although she's endowed with a fertile brain; For a splendid rich husband she's hunted in vain; People read all the poems she composes, But her hair has no curl and her cheeks have no roses!"
chanted Grace obligingly. "I spare no one," she admitted honestly.
"You should rest for a brief while, Mrs. Wardman." The nurse spoke quietly but the children understood.
"I have prepared a birthday present for each of you," smiled Mrs. Wardman as she prepared to lean on the nurse's arm. "If I drop asleep you can read these cuttings from my old diary. Read them aloud. I don't believe we should cut the cake, Marie. It is so beautiful, send it to the orphans' home. It will delight those children to eat slices of sagebrush and buffalo."
As she moved slowly, falteringly from the room, even the carefully modeled clothes could not conceal her fragility. Esther glanced apprehensively at the clock, visioning an expensive mistake on the part of her cutter. Marie looked into the long mirror, readjusted a stray curl, noted the time on her bejeweled wrist watch. Grace, suddenly inspired, scribbled on the margin of a newspaper. Horace dropped a preservative pellet into the delicate silver vase that held his creation.
"I wish," began Esther, "that Mother would tell us more about our father. He must have come from wonderful stock. Not meaning to be too egotistical, but he must have had good blood in him, or we children would not have been as successful as we are. Mother has been wonderful, of course, but she never expressed a desire to do anything special. She just kept us together after father left, or died, or disappeared, or whatever it was that happened to him. I feel that I must know more about him. No matter what happened, or what he did, the bald truth would be better than the secrecy Mother has maintained about him. Mother sewed, but it was mostly patching old things, she never organized as I do. She raised a garden, but it was potatoes and carrots—not roses. She couldn't have wanted pretty clothes like Marie, because she never wore them. And she never wrote a poem."
"I remember I saw her once, looking at a bouquet of roses like she could crush them," added Horace. "Once she told me about an orchid she'd seen in a florist's window that was labeled two fifty. That meant food for a week for the five of us," he added harshly to hide his emotion.
"She ought to tell us about Father now we're all grown," Marie added her protest to that of her older sister. "He endowed each of us with a rare gift. We ought to find out where his people live. All we know is he came from the deep south, was tall like Horace, had dark curls like myself. He had intended to go to the Klondike but stopped off here and fell in love with mother. Then he disappeared when Grace was three weeks old."
"Let's read the diary clippings," suggested Grace. "I used to wonder at her patience in keeping it when she had so much work to do. Esther, you begin."
Esther opened her sealed envelope. Her glance traveled rapidly over the thin faded sheet, clipped from an old blue ruled day journal.
"May 11, 1900.
"I had saved twelve dollars to buy a rhymster's dictionary. I had always wanted to write poetry. I know I could, if I could learn words. But I found Marie, 15, was planning to elope with a traveling man, because he promised to buy her the clothes I could not afford. With the twelve dollars I bought her a white coat, high heeled slippers and a pink dress. She has gone back to school."
"Oh," gasped Marie, a deep flush of chagrin crawling up her neck and face. "O, I never knew she wanted a dictionary of rhymes. Truly, I didn't know. But you, none of you, can understand how I wanted pretty clothes! They were my life!"
"My turn," cut in Horace brusquely.
"April 1, 1900.
"I tell the children that I visit with old lady March every Wednesday evening. But I do their family ironing. With this money I am buying Horace a set of garden tools, 500 pounds of new fertilizer, and a share of water stock. Some day he will develop a beautiful flower, like I have always wanted to do."
Marie seemed anxious to disclose selfishness for the others. With shaking fingers she ripped open her envelope:
"July, 1900.
"Today I baked fifty dozen rolls for a lodge picnic. It was terribly hot in the little kitchen. I made a down payment on a round shuttle, drop head machine for Esther, and stopped at the cobbler's to have my shoes resoled. He said the uppers couldn't stand a fourth sole, but they have to. I had been planning a new dress for myself, but Marie needs a party gown."
"You don't all need to look so hard at me," Grace challenged, as the other three turned their gaze upon her.
"January, 1903.
"Esther is teaching a bunch of girls piece work in sewing. Horace has a job in a nursery and goes to night school. He studies rotation of crops, soil conservation, fertilizers and grafting. Marie will marry soon and Richard will make her happy with money and social position. Grace has the rhymster's dictionary I am now too old to study. She never looks in a mirror, but runs around the house muttering rhymes. She got two dollars for a little jingle I told her." "Mother composed your first poem herself," accused Esther. "And she bought your first sewing machine," countered Marie. "And she loved flowers and the great out doors, too," added Horace. "And she bought you fancy clothes to save your soul," Grace looked pointedly at Marie. "She washed and ironed and baked and went near barefooted for us." Horace's tone of self-accusation included his three sisters. "She could have run a factory, or developed a rose. She loved pretty clothes too, and could have written poetry herself, if she had had a chance to study. I remember she went away, suddenly, one Christmas. We didn't have any presents, because it took all her money to pay railroad fare. She never told us where she went, or what for. I always thought it was something about Father. She ought to tell us now, I'd like to locate his people. I'd like to visit his grave." His sisters nodded approval, just as the nurse came in, extending the old, faded diary. "She fell asleep and this book dropped from her hand. She had it marked at the page where it fell open." By right of being the only son Horace reached for the old, worn book that had served his mother as a diary. From the open page he read aloud to his tense little audience: "Christmas Eve, 1905. "The warden telegraphed me Jefferson is dying. Poor dear, darling, hot headed Jeff! "I reached Jefferson before he died. A TRIBUTE promised to have his body cremated, and never to tell the children that he killed a man, in a drunken brawl over cards." Horace closed the little book and called the nurse. "She sleeps?" he asked anxiously. "As peacefully as a little child," she answered. "But she will waken soon, quite refreshed. She always does." "Please replace the book where it fell. Perhaps it would be best not to tell her that we saw it." The nurse nodded understandingly as she left the room. A TENSE, awed silence fell over the little group. The first blossom of the famous rose exuded a 347 faint, delicate odor; the silken shawl fell from the chair to the floor; the candy Indians glared at the buffaloes on the ornate cake; the book of autographed poetry lay unopened on the table. The two hundred factory workers might have gone on a strike. The watchman might have been chloroformed and the precious rose bush stolen. The presses of the great daily might have been stilled, waiting for copy from the popular poet. The chair at the Governor's right hand might have remained vacant during the entire banquet. The four children sat chastened, chagrinned, humbled, contrite, silently waiting for their mother to waken. A Tribute (Radio Address over KSL, March 15, 1936) By President Louise Y. Robison RING came early on the beautiful banks of the Mississippi ninety-four years ago! New life was apparent in bush and tree! The return of the birds was welcome for the winter had been most trying in the village of Nauvoo! In their desire to gather at the headquarters of the Latter-day Saints Church, fine men and women, who had joined the Church in distant parts, came to Nauvoo by the hundreds. Housing facilities in this new frontier town were inadequate, - and, added to this discomfort, many people were stricken with malaria. Residents opened their homes and did all in their power to care for these needy people, but still many suffered. Emma Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith, filled her home with the sick whom she nursed. REALIZING the need for organized relief, eighteen earnest women met on March 17, 1842, with a desire to relieve the distressing situation. This group of women, mostly mothers, began the meeting with song, and being prayerful women, a prayer was offered for divine guidance. The organization, then known as the Female Relief Society, was created. Tonight, in this historic Tabernacle, we commemorate this event in song and thanksgiving. There is real power in song and prayer and service! Inspiration for great undertakings is gained through song, and appreciation for blessings received is expressed by this medium. Hence our Relief Society slogan: "Every Mother a Singing Mother." A home, a church or a community is most fortunate where women sing while they serve. EMMA SMITH. Was our first President. She was the animating spirit in the great labor of love which found expression in using all the resources at her command. The aims and objects of the Society. 348 were: "to manifest benevolence irrespective of creed or nationality: to care for the poor, the sick and the unfortunate: to minister where death reigns: to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life: to raise human life to its highest level: to elevate and enlarge the scope of woman's activities and conditions: to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement: to develop faith: to study and teach the gospel." ELIZA R. SNOW succeeded Emma Smith and tried to perpetuate these ideals, as have each Presidency since its organization. The Church had moved to Utah where many new Wards were created, and Sister Snow traveled extensively to organize Relief Societies and to direct their activities. She was a poet, and not only encouraged singing, but wrote many beautiful poems now used as hymns in our Church. ZINA D. H. YOUNG, the third President, recognized the need for health education and nursing among the pioneer people. Not only did she instruct others in the laws of health, but she did much actual nursing herself. President Bathsheba W. Smith was deeply interested in Temple ordinances. She was a Priestess of the Temple, as was Anna of New Testament history. Under Sister Smith women were taught the sacredness of Temple work and the rich opportunity offered us to serve people who have died without a knowledge of the Gospel. PRESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS may be likened to Joseph of whom we read in Bible history. Even before she became President of the Relief Society, President Brigham Young gave her the responsibility RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of having the women of the Church store wheat that the people would not suffer hunger as they had done in former years. Relief Society today is reaping the benefit of this wise project. OUR sixth President, Clarissa Smith Williams, was calm, dignified. Under her able leadership the educational program of Relief Society was improved and the activities widened to meet the needs of the present day. Memorials honoring past Presidents were established through which many women have been enabled to take professional work in literature, nursing and social service. THE type of service may not be the same today as in the beginning, for we have homes and schools and churches, but there are aching hearts to be comforted; there are the discouraged and the sorrowing who need us to carry the too heavy load, and help them plant their feet again on the firm foundation of faith and 'hope and high standards. Let us help them to see the beauty in the lines written by Nelly Anderson Haley, when she prayed in her garden: "Teach me in dewy silence to know On the pruned bush the loveliest roses grow." There are young girls whose homes during the formative years of their lives have been deprived of the richness of cultural opportunities. | These need our special care, for they are to be the Singing Mothers of the future. On our ninety-fourth birthday we stand with bowed heads in appreciation of the work accomplished by the noble women who have preceded us. We pledge to them our earnest effort to carry the banner high, which they have entrusted to us. I Love the Technocrats By H. R. Merrill tell you why. I have heard people lament the fact that they live in such a "busy" age, in such "hectic" times, when there are so many things to do that they cannot do anything well. They lament the passing of this "good old tradition" and that "good old custom." I haven't a great deal of patience with such people when I find them living in steam-heated apartments, beautifully lighted with the magic "juice," riding to their work in an automobile while some prima donna sings to them from their radio receiver overhead, calling their grocer on the telephone, and the gas company whenever the heat needs some repair. I could believe them if they would turn back to the old days. Now, needless to say, if there are any souls who really would like the old days back, I can tell them a hundred places where they may go to find them—and be happy. But I suspect that other people, even though they may wail about how Mary paints her lips or how little the home is used, also love the technocrats. Who are the technocrats? Why all of those beloved ladies and gentlemen from Adam to the present day who have been dissatisfied with things as they are and have constantly striven for a new world. Specifically, however, a technocrat is an inventor, a scientist, a scholar who has been able to recognize and analyze the forces around him and to take those forces and make them serve man in a new way. I love all such. The fact that a Dillinger will use a magnificent car to make his escape from a bank robbery, is not a condemnation of the car or the man who invented it. We have become complacent about some of the marvels which surround us. Not long ago I was sitting before my fireplace when suddenly the room was flooded with glorious song. It was a great lifting melody by a magnificent voice. I was thrilled, but I was not moved as I used to be. When we first brought a radio into the home, had such a golden flood of music enveloped us, I would have reached for the telephone and told half the town that some great one was singing. A little later, I learned that it was the incomparable Rosa Ponselle. JI did not call a single soul. No one ever calls me. The air now is too full of the world's greatest for us to single out one program and telephone about it. I love the long line of technocrats, however, who brought Rosa Ponselle into my home. I can see them, one behind another, a long line extending into infinity as did Banquo's sons before the astonished gaze of Macbeth. And one of our modern inventions is the product of an almost never ending line of scientists, technicians, and inventors. Take as an example the automobile. Whenever I step into mine, though it is not new or very smart, I get a thrill at thinking of the band of prancing horses that are miraculously harnessed under its hood. As I set them in motion and skim over the roads at speeds even the fastest of horses could not equal, I see, besides those invisible horses, the crowds of shadowy inventors adding their bit to my miracle of the road. For instance, there are the inventors and makers of wheels reaching from before the dawn of history —all sorts of wheels—ordinary, wood wheels sawed from a log, wheels with spokes and steel tires and hard rubber tires and pneumatic tires; crank wheels, cog wheels, differentials, ring-gears, and on ad infinitum. How many applications of the principle of the wheel in a modern car? J don't know. You count them from the fan to the timpkin bearings. Then there are the fuel makers from wood to gasoline; the iron workers and inventors from the crude smith of the iron age to the expert fabricators of 1935 who were able to turn out one-piece steel auto bodies, beautifully designed; the fuel and oil systems; the lighting and heating devices ranging from oil or gas lamps, only a quarter of a century ago, to an electric system as perfect as that used by a city. I stand in awe before a car—and that host of shadowy technocrats who gave it to me. Our pioneers, less than a hundred years ago, came across the plains in wagons and with handcarts whose tires wore out and broke in a thousand miles, whose axles gave way and whose wheels fell to pieces. Twenty thousand miles barely breaks a modern car in and some travel over a hundred thousand miles. All around me are these gifts from the past. This magazine, this page, are products from the brains and hands of thousands who were not satisfied with the slower progress of learning. Behind them are the paper makers, the ink makers, and the typemachine inventors, the hundreds of pressmen who have added here and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE added there to make printing cheap and education popular. The technocrats have made the world over and over again. Each generation adds beauty and art, conveniences and culture, education and truth faster than the one before. The art of printing gave wings to all processes. It sped up technocracy until the world of humanity was hardly prepared for the blessings showered upon it. Each man, woman, and child, we are told, were given approximately forty slaves each. It is not strange that many of us know little about using them, neither is it strange that we all love these mechanical genii we have to do our bidding. It is fortunate that Christianity had advanced far before the greatest gifts of techocracy had been received by the world, for Christianity anchors the human soul to the higher purposes of life. Through its teachings, fortunately, nearly all of the modern giants are good giants; nearly all use their forty slaves constructively rather than destructively. The magnificent work of the technocrats could be illustrated by thousands of examples. The slaves we have to do our bidding are legion. As a result, truly, many of the old virtues have passed away, but in their places have come and may come many and greater virtues. It has always been so; it is my belief it will always be so, for learning is on the way and must keep on until we all "come to a knowledge of the truth," but it is questionable if we shall ever know all truth. And so, for one, I love the technocrats. My problem is to keep up with them in intellectual and spiritual understanding in order that I may use my precious "forty slaves" constructively and for the betterment of my neighbors and me. Ensembles in Flower Arrangement By Jean Cox LOWERS should belong to the container just as much as the coat to the dress, the shade with the lamp, or the hangings with the floor coverings. Pleasing floral arrangement results when flowers and vase belong to each other. A division of interest in the selection of containers and flowers, jars or annoys. Whatever these may be there should be a feeling of unity and fellowship between the flowers and the bowl in which they are arranged. This may be accomplished by having analogous or contrasting effects. Texture and quality of the container should also harmonize with the flowers it contains. No container should seem crowded in correct flower arrangement. Three, five, or seven blossoms in a container suitable to the kind of flowers are much more attractive than a mass of flowers which rob themselves of their own beauty. In flower arrangements which belong, color is probably the most important factor. Hues of flowers should be repeated in minor or major accents in the bowl. For example, a green glass bowl is very effective where leaves are about the same intensity as the bowl. Leaves brighter still, if small, may also be used as the intermediary between the flowers and the vase. Long stemmed zinnias are usually effective in an orange colored bowl when the mass of bloom of the taller flowers is tied to the bowl with a few short stemmed flowers heavy with foliage. The kind of vase or bowl should be proportionate to the length of the stems. To be effective, tall containers should have long stemmed flowers which stand out gracefully above the top of the vase. Asa rule, stems inclined to stiffness should be more than twice the heighth of the container. The length of the stems in low bowls is somewhat proportionate to the size of the bowl, and also of the flowers themselves. In any event the bow! Should not seem immersed with the flowers that are in it. Neither should the bowl seemingly engulf the flowers. In accordance with the Greek law of proportion, the vase or bowl should not cut the stems into halves, thirds, or fourths of their height. Neither should the stems be so short that a stiff arrangement results. CONTAINERS like floors and floor coverings must be sufficiently strong in color or texture to hold up the different flowers for which they are most appropriate. A hobnailed glass bowl of proportionate size is more effective with light colored iris, yellow or pink roses and light blue delphinium than it is with dark red roses. Where the glass bowl is heavy and richly cut this does not hold as the color of the darker flowers is repeated in the facets. This type of bowl is appropriate for rich colors and heavy flowers. Frequently a bowl having several colors on an ivory background lends itself to many kinds of flowers. A crown ducal bowl with decorations in yellows, reds, blues, and greens catches the color of the flowers in it and is effective with almost any kind of flower or combination. A sonnet in the arrangement of iris was obtained by placing three stems of uneven length of light blue 352 iris having almost a periwinkle fringe in a blue green Japanese vase. Several leaves of iris helped make this arrangement a delightful bit of color against a stippled tan wall paper. Pewter bowls are especially charming with delphinium and small pink roses. Small bowls with wire frogs are exquisite with forget-me-nots and daisies. Sprays of maiden hair or other fine leafed fern enhance the beauty of flowers in pewter baskets. The satiny texture of pewter makes it a better background for feathery bouquets than for bold arrangements of flowers. A low bowl with blue ianthus leaves on a mustard yellow background was an effective container for yellow centered daisies which are twin sisters to black-eyed susans. This was also especially attractive with yellow button chrysanthemums. It was probably most beautiful with yellow and peach colored Iceland poppies which seemed more colorful in contrast with the blue design of the beautifully proportioned bowl. There is also need of conformity of line as well as color. Heavy peonies with their aggressive foliage are inclined to belittle their container. For effective arrangement these large flowers should be placed in floor jars sufficiently heavy in appearance to support these mammoth flowers. These jars may be of bold subdued color which are as dark in value as the floor or rug on which they stand. Designs should not be too spotty in effect. The effectiveness of these bold flower arrangements will be partly determined by the background of walls and hangings which should be unobtrusive. The most attractive table decorations are those which harmonize with napery, china, and glass. A yellow damask was enhanced with a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE floral arrangement of salmon and yellow Iceland poppies in a spherical Venetian glass bowl. With these were used yellow Wedgewood service plates with amber and crystal goblets. This arrangement received superlative praise. A pale green cloth was most charming with stately yellow and rose gladiolus with which there was a generous allotment of shining leaves of this attractive cut flower. Pottery bowls of neutral shades offer interesting arrangements as they absorb and reflect the color of the flowers. A gray green bowl seemed to belong to yellow roses which were cut with more than usual amount of foliage. It was also beautiful with shasta daisies and California poppies. But the combination which was voted best was light blue delphinium and California poppies with a generous portion of foliage. Zinnias with their gray green foliage were also effective in this bowl. Part of this was due to the fact that the bowl was sufficiently heavy to hold up their weight. In flower arrangement this point should not be overlooked. This low bowl, however, was not effective with asters, as the small amount of blue in the gray green was not a good background for these lovely fall flowers. For these small stemmed flowers the bowl was too heavy without more foliage than asters provide. A yellow and white Wedgewood bowl seemed to belong to a bunch of calendulas. These reflected sunshine in a dark hall. A lovely old hexagonal cream pitcher on which the decoration was almost an even arrangement of small irregular dots and splashes were unusually attractive with calendulas which shaded light to dark yellow with three orange ones for minor accent one of which was dark centered. FATHER HAS HIS DAY "THE beauty of autumn and winter bouquets may be prolonged to almost match the enduring qualities of their containers by a rather simple trick. If dusty, wash leaves, freshly gathered, with soap and water. Rinse and dry. Dab corn oil on the smooth side with cloth or small brush. This oxidizes and makes them look as though freshly washed by a gentle rain. If the room temperature does not get too high, these will keep for weeks or months providing they are kept in water. Dipping autumn berries in oil or brushing them with a soft brush immersed in it will also keep them from withering. Oregon grape and box lend themselves especially well to this effective treatment for winter decorations when arranged in pottery bowls which reflect colors of the leaves and berries. The same rules of fitness apply to hanging baskets as well. Glass bowls are wonderfully alluring when the roots as well as foliage are visible. A hobnailed bowl was filled with myrtle and placed on a raffia woven two inch base from which the raffa thongs were carried to the bracket A 353 on which this unusual hanging basket was suspended. SATISFACTORY collection of flower containers need not represent any great investment. Bargain counters in crockery departments frequently have choice bowls at much less than original price. One much prized Crown Ducal bowl which had an original mark of $8.00 was purchased for 50c because of a glaze crack. A Venetian glass bowl was obtained at a clearance sale for one-fourth of its marked price. A most satisfactory container for semilong stemmed flowers was a twelve sided ancient stone china sugar bowl of good proportion, which was decorated with yellow and yellow green enamel paint. The dime and fifteen cent stores frequently display bowls that are seconds of good quality. Where the budget permits, very lovely bowls may be purchased from jewelry and department stores. At any rate, half of the fun of raising or buying flowers is to mentally see them in a bowl or vase that belongs. Father Has His Day By E. Cannon Porter PETER CLARK tossed restlessly in his bed. He had lain awake all night. Nor did he feel inclined to turn on his bedside light and read as he did on other sleepless occasions. He had lost his job. He had held it all through the depression but was dismissed when things began to pick up. As one of the oldest salesmen in the Travers' furniture store he had been kept on, not only on account of seniority, but because he knew personally most of the old customers, who liked him. Then old man Travers was found dead in his bed one morning and his sons proceeded to "modernize" the business. Not only did they do over the building, and augment the stock, but they installed whipper-snapper young salesmen and let the old hands go. Peter was still dazed by the unbelievable experience of being thrown out of work when past sixty years of age. Toward morning he thought of the woman in the Bible who complained of her poverty. 354 "What hast thou in the house?" the widow was asked. "Only a jar of oil," she replied. "Go, and it shall be sufficient for thy needs." And it was. So Peter wondered what he had. There were those few shares of stock that he had bought from a fellow employee who was in trouble. He had taken them to help Jenks out. Since then they had lain in his bank box. He had thought idly that they might pay for his funeral. Possibly they might bring a few hundred dollars,—enough to barely keep them for a few months. Oh yes, he had his home; paid for, luckily. Now he thanked his stars that his family had stayed in their substantial cottage in the midsection of town and not been stampeded into a new house, far out, in a more fashionable section, with its attendant debt. In his wife Maggie he had a true friend, a loyal helpmate—that alone made him rich. Their daughter Daisy was engaged to a young sheepman; they were waiting for business to pick up so they could be married. Stanley, his older boy, with a wife and two small children, eked out an existence as an electrician in a small town. Young Richard was still in high school; he had hoped to send him to college; the boy had a real bent for science. Well, he would sell the stock. With this thought he fell into a troubled sleep just as a sickly gray filtered through the east windows. WHEN he arose he cleaned out his desk because he had nothing else to do. A folder caught his eye. It was from a firm that manufactured store fixtures and office equipment. With it was a letter saying that with the awakening in business, assisted by the government’s commission basis. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE financing, many firms took advantage of the conditions to improve their places. They offered him a position as salesman, partly on a They added that he had been recommended to them as of a pleasant personality, with genuine integrity. He had pigeonholed the communication, without thought that he would ever lose the work that he had. Now he wrote out a careful acceptance, with a request for further information. He felt better already. When he went down to the bank to get his stock certificate he met a wealthy acquaintance in the vault. This man counted out a stack of gilt-edge securities. He looked worried and even regarded poor Peter with suspicion. Clark, who had helped this financier secure a political office, thought ruefully: "I wouldn't change places with him today, as bad off as I am!" FTER he had converted his stock into cash—(it was a little more than he expected. The market had recovered.)—-he decided to invest it at once. He had such a small amount that he might as well give it away. So he sent his car to be overhauled by a capable young mechanic who was out of work. Clark felt repaid already by the boy's bright look. He dispatched a cashier's check for fifty dollars to his son in Elton. With it was a brief note: "You say that if you had the money for some baby chicks, your wife Maud could attend to them at home, and this would eventually increase your income. Tell her that I stake her to a few hundred and I wish her success.—Father." WHEN he returned home for dinner, a fragrant aroma wafted from the kitchen. The dining FATHER HAS HIS DAY table was an ensemble in color: orange flowers, green salad, pink dessert. His faithful wife had taken special pains "to cheer Father up." "Come here, girls. I want to talk to you," he called. "Well, make it brief,—the roast is almost done," admonished his wife. "Daisy," he began, "How long would it take you to get ready for your wedding?" "Why, I don't know, father." "Well, it has just occurred to me that Rulon needs you now,—worse than he will when his business picks up. You could help him. Anyway, you would be as well off as here— with me out of a job. Consult with him and see what you want to do." A happy flush overspread his daughter's face. What impetuous joy her young fiance would greet the prospect. Her father pulled out a roll of bills. "Here is a hundred dollars to buy you some cloth. Consult with your mother and maybe she will help you sew it up." "Oh Father!" His happy daughter threw her arms around his neck; then rushed to the telephone to get her prospective groom over long distance. "Maggie," he continued, "you remember when we were married thirty-five years ago we were too poor to go on a honeymoon? Well, we always meant to take a trip when we could afford it. I can't offer much now that I've lost my position, but I want you to get some new clothes and come with me while I try to sell refrigerator cases to butcher shops, will you?" "I've got good clothes, Father. I don't have to dress up to do that, but I'd love to go with you." So Maggie went along. She knew with. 355 "THE elderly pair traveled through the blossoming valleys of Utah, from the gorgeous-colored canyons of the south to the granary of Cache County in the north and over into the green sugar beet fields of Idaho. While Peter talked renovation to the storekeepers of small towns, Maggie discussed Relief Society questions with their comfortable wives, and made many friends. Because he believed in his wares, Mr. Clark made his customers see the need of improvement if they were to successfully keep up with the times. The orders rolled in. FTER a time they went home to celebrate Daisy's wedding. She made a radiant and lovely bride in her simple summery dress; and there was a great deal of happiness and laughter—all except for the ache in the hearts of parents when they part with adored children. Young Rulon was jubilant that he did not have to wait for "prosperity to turn the corner" to claim his wife. WO years later Peter held his grandson and namesake on his lap. His family had come to greet him on Father's Day—beautiful with June sunshine. The chicken business had flourished and his daughter-, in-law had brought burnt offerings in the form of spring fryers for the feast. The sheep industry was represented by a luscious leg of lamb. "Do you remember, Father, two or three years ago, when you lost your job, and you took your funeral money and distributed it among us and we all thought that you had gone crazy?" asked Daisy. "Maybe I—I—couldn't afford a funeral!" said Father with a twinkle in his eye. 356 "No, I've often thought of what Judge Lane remarked: '"When one door closes, two open." "Father cast a sop to fortune," averred his daughter-in-law. "You remember that figure in the Japanese garden that all the people threw their coins to,—quarters, dimes, coppers —till they covered the base of the statue? An Oriental explained to me that to gain you must first give— to start the law of supply to working." "Tt sounds to me more like bread cast upon the waters which has returned after many days," claimed sensible Mother. "Like ships of grain sent to foreign ports, which return laden with silk, ivory, amber and spices." LATER that evening, when the others had gone, and Mr. And Mrs. Clark sat alone upon the porch, he took her hand. "Business is better than we anticipated RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE If it keeps up, after a while you can have a little, new, convenient house, Maggie. This place is rather large to keep up just for you and Richard and me." "Oh no," exclaimed Maggie hastily, "I couldn't think of living anywhere else. I've been so happy here. And Mother planted the garden, she loved to work with. The flowers. Strangers wouldn't take care of her plants." "But I tell you what we could do, Peter, we might remodel it: throw the front and back parlors into one long living room. The dining room, with its paneled walls you could have for an office, which you need. The little porch, glassed in, would make a lovely breakfast room. When the children and grandchildren come to town, there would always be room for them to stay here. I couldn't bear to have them go anywhere else." "You win,' murmured Father. Social Security Program, Western States By Judge Hugo B. Anderson Address given at Relief Society Conference, April, 1936. Social Welfare Department. THE Relief Society is, I suppose, the largest body of volunteer workers, with training in the welfare field, in this country today. By reason of the fact that you have this experience and training, you understand more readily than the ordinary lay audience the problems connected with welfare work. By reason of the fact that you are volunteer workers, you have an advantage even over the professional paid social workers in interpreting to and influencing the public on problems of welfare. The passage of the Social Security Act has left our welfare laws, our welfare policies, and our welfare practices and administration in a state of flux and change. This means that we have today such an opportunity as comes not more than once in a generation to really do some constructive work in the improvement of our welfare machinery and the social conditions in the community from which we come. I am very glad, therefore, that the program for the Relief Society Conference carries the inscription on its title page: "Relief Society Awake to Its Opportunities and Responsibilities." I wish to use that slogan as a means of limiting, and at the SOCIAL SECURITY PROGRAM same time unifying, what I may have to say to you this afternoon; what are some of the opportunities which the Social Security program gives to you as workers in your communities; what are some of the responsibilities that it places upon you in relation to the welfare problems in your various communities because of your experience and training and your position? "THE Social Security Program has for its object, as President Roosevelt said when he proposed it, "To provide safeguards against the major misfortunes of life." The figures on the distribution of wealth in the United States indicate clearly the necessity of safeguards against the major misfortunes of life. Before the depression struck us in 1929, 1 % of the people of this country owned 59% of the wealth of the country; 18% of the people owned 90% of the wealth, and 76% of the people left nothing in the way of property when they died. The average wage in this country at that time was approximately $1,200 per year for the working man. It took fully that much to provide a minimum standard of decent and healthful living for a family of five. Now that means that a large proportion of the people in this country are in good times so near the dependency line that any major misfortune in life immediately presses them down below the dependency line and places them in a position where they need assistance. These major hazards or misfortunes in life are well known to all of us—unemployment, sickness— physical and mental, accidents, premature death of the bread winner, old age, and various kinds of physical handicaps. The Social Security Act, in attempting to provide against some of 357 these major hazards, uses all three methods which are known to welfare work. These three methods are: relief, insurance and prevention. For example, in the case of accident, if the bread winner of the household suffers an accident, we may simply put relief into the family, or we may provide a system of accident insurance so that the earner and his family may be protected, or we may spend our welfare funds in a program of prevention. Relief, insurance and prevention, the three ways are all used under the Social Security program. The relief method is used in the grants-in-aid, under the Social Security Act. These grants-in-aid are provided for old age, for dependent children, for the blind, for crippled children and for vocational rehabilitation of the physically injured. The insurance method is used in the provisions for unemployed insurance, which it is designed will be administered by the States. The taxes levied under this portion of the act are to be used by the Federal Government in helping the States carry the costs of administration of their unemployment insurance laws. The insurance method is also used for the old age annuities, which are based on insurance principles, and which are paid for out of the taxes which are levied for that purpose on employers and employees. The preventive method is used in connection with the grants-in-aid for public health, maternal and child health and child welfare. The Social Security Program is too broad in its scope to discuss as a whole in the course of a half hour period. Because of that fact and because the opportunities and responsibilities of the Relief Society lie at present, at least, largely in the field of the grants-in-aid for old age, for dependent children and for the blind, I shall limit my discussion this 358 afternoon to the grants-in-aid for these three specific purposes. "THE principle of grants-in-aid is well established already in this country. Under the theory of the grants-in-aid the administration of the law is left with the local community—the State or County; the Federal Government fixes standards, and any State which complies with these standards may then receive reimbursement up to a certain percentage of the amount of money which the State has spent in that particular activity. The grants-in-aid principle has been used in the case of agricultural extension work; aid for highways; the Smith-Hughes Act for vocational education; the Sheppard-Towner Act, with which you Relief Society workers are familiar; and the public employment service. The principle of the grants-in-aid has been tested in the Federal Courts and held constitutional, and there is not, therefore, the same questions regarding it as there is with reference to the insurance features of the Social Security Act. I want for just a moment to discuss with you the situation with reference to these three problems of old age, dependent children and the blind in the Western States before the Social Security Act was passed. In 1930 there was six and a half million people in the country over sixty-five years of age, which was five and four-tenths of the population of the country. But we have gone so far in decreasing the infant mortality rate, and in prolonging life, that it is very evident the proportion of old people in our population is rapidly increasing, and it is estimated that by 1970 there will be twenty million people in the country over sixty-five years of age. Before the depression about one-third of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE these old people were dependent; since the depression approximately one-half of these old people are dependent. There are seven million four hundred thousand children under sixteen years of age in families on the relief rolls of this country at the present time. Seven hundred thousand of these are in families where the family has been deprived of support of the bread winner— through death or absence of the father. Before the Security Act less than one-third of these dependent children were receiving relief under our existing Mothers' Aid Laws. There are over one hundred thousand blind in the United States, i.e., people having no useful vision. Of the one hundred thousand, approximately twenty-three thousand were receiving blind pensions or allowances prior to the Social Security Act. I AM assuming that those of you who are here today come from Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Wyoming. Practically all of these States before the Security Act had old age pension laws, mothers' aid laws and blind pension laws. New Mexico was the only one of the group without an old age pension law. In this group of States, in round numbers, there are four hundred thousand people over sixty-five years of age. Experience shows that if the old age pension law is properly drawn and properly administered, about 20% of the aged will qualify for assistance; 20% of that number would be about eighty thousand in these Western States. Before the Security Act there were just about half that number who were receiving assistance under the provisions of existing old age pension laws. These pensions, however, SOCIAL SECURITY PROGRAM were very low: ranging from $5.32 in New Mexico, to $20.25 in Colorado. The average amount paid in these Western States was $12.15 per person. Most of these States had Mothers' Aid Laws. The payments under these laws ranged from $4.00 per child up to around $20.00. There were 26,/00 children aided under the Mothers' Aid laws in these States before the Social Security Act. The average amount granted per child in these States was $9.00 per month. There were 5,456 blind in these ten States. About half of them, or a little over 3,000, were receiving some blind assistance under the laws of these States. In general, then, about half the people in these three classifications who could be reasonably expected to qualify in normal times under the provisions of the Social Security Act, were receiving assistance under the State laws prior to the passage of the Social Security Act. In most of these States, however, the administration was on a County basis. California had a State and local combination basis, and Arizona had a state-wide method of distributing Mothers' Aid. Outside of that the provision was entirely local in all of the States, and was for the most part not mandatory on the Counties. What does the Social Security Act offer to these States? The Social Security Act provides, in the case of old age, that if the State complies with the requirements of the Federal Act, the State will be reimbursed by the Federal Government up to one-half its expense, within a limit of $30.00 per month to one individual for the care of the needy aged over sixty-five years of age who are not inmates of institutions, who are citizens of the United States, and who have resided in the State for five out of the preceding nine years, and 359 in the local community for one year. The Federal Government also reimburses the State for costs of administering the old age assistance to the extent of 5% of the Federal grant in aid. The Federal Government goes even further in encouraging States to extend the application of existing Mothers' Aid laws. It offers reimbursement equal to one-third of the amount expended by the States (under an approved plan) for the care of dependent children. In practically all of our existing mothers' aid laws, however, the aid is limited to a mother who is caring for her children in her own home. Under the provisions of the Social Security Act the child does not need to be living with its mother. The Federal Act allows the State to define a dependent child as, "a child under the age of sixteen, who has been deprived of parental support, or care by reason of the death, continued absence from the home or physical or mental incapacity of a parent and who is living with his father, mother, grandfather, grandmother, brother, sister, stepfather, step-mother, step-brother, step-sister, uncle or aunt, in a place of residence maintained by one or more of such relatives at his or their own home." The provisions of the Act relating to dependent children are, in my judgment, the most far-reaching of all the provisions of the Social Security Act, and will have an ultimate greater effect on the welfare set-up than any other provisions of the Act. The Federal grants for aid to the blind are on about the same basis as those for the aged except that there is no age requirement in the case of the blind. O what extent have the Western States qualified for Federal 360 assistance under the Social Security Act? I hesitate to even attempt to answer that question, because conditions in every State are changing so rapidly that what is true today may not have been true yesterday, and what was true yesterday may not be true today. I secured a report last night, however, which gave the latest information available from Washington, and that report showed that the following States among those that I have named have qualified under the provisions of the Social Security Act: for old age assistance—Idaho, Wyoming, Utah and New Mexico; for aid to the blind— Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona and New Mexico; for aid to dependent children—Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona, New Mexico. I understand in addition that the Legislature of Colorado is now in session for the express purpose of framing such laws as will enable Colorado to comply with the provisions of the Social Security Act, and qualify for its benefits. Oregon and California have qualified for unemployment insurance, but for none of the grants-in-aid features of the Security Act. Montana and Nevada have apparently not qualified for any of the benefits of the Social Security Act. What does the Federal Government require in order that a State may qualify for these grants? Here is where the opportunity ends, and the obligation and responsibility of those who understand welfare problems begin. The requirements of the Federal Government are not complicated. A State must offer a plan for caring for these classes of unemployables that complies with the following requirements: A single State agency to administer or supervise the administration of the plan. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE If it is a plan of State supervision and County administration, then the provisions of the plan must be mandatory in every County of the State. There must be financial participation by the State. It is not enough that the Counties put up money, the State itself must contribute to the funds. There must be an opportunity for any person who is refused the benefits of the Act to appeal to the state supervising agency. A State must guarantee satisfactory standards of administration for the Act, and comply with the requirements of the Federal Government with reference to statistical and financial reports covering the administration of the act. ASSUME that you have asked yourselves as Relief Society workers, What can we do? If you believe in this method of taking care of these classes of people in need, you should first of all do your utmost to see that your State qualifies under the terms of the Social Security Act. That will mean, in most cases, that ultimately, if not immediately or before qualifying, your State must have a State Department of Public Welfare or the equivalent. It is our obligation, as people who know something about welfare administration, to exert our influence to the utmost of our ability to see that these State Departments are set up in a suitable manner on a nonpartisan basis, so that they will not become footballs of politics in the future, and to see that the methods of administration prescribed are as fine as we know how to make them with our present knowledge of welfare work. In many cases perhaps it will not be possible to comply with the provisions of the Social Security Act in the State until the Legislature SOCIAL SECURITY PROGRAM meets. Our greatest difficulty here in Utah was the fact that our aid laws were not mandatory on the various Counties. We avoided that difficulty and succeeded in qualifying by entering into written agreements with every County of the State under the terms of which the County Commissioners of these Counties agreed to disburse their help to the blind and the aged and dependent children under the rules and regulations prescribed by the State Department and the Federal Government, in return for the help which the State and Federal Governments gave to them. The provisions of law creating our State Department of Public Welfare authorized the County Commissioners to cooperate with the State Department of Public Welfare and the Federal Government and to take such action as was necessary to conform to the requirements of the Social Security Act. There are a number of questions of policy in the setting up of your welfare machinery which you will hear discussed, and on which you should be in a position to exercise some influence in your communities. First of all I want-to urge you, in setting up your machinery for welfare work in your States, not to be content to set it up for those only who fit into the categories of the Social Security Act, the blind, aged and dependent children. While you are making a Department of Public Welfare, make it broad enough so that it can supervise the welfare activities in behalf of those who do not fit into the categories as well as those who do. We find in our State today almost as many unemployables whom we cannot place on the Works Progress Administration program and who do not come under the provisions of the Social Security Act, 361 as there are persons who can qualify for assistance under the provisions of the Social Security Act. Your program should be broad enough so that your State can supervise the whole welfare problem. Another reason is because under your Security program, your Counties will be called upon to participate financially. If we are not careful we will find those who fit into the program supported with State and Federal help will have all the funds, and those who do not will have no care whatever because County funds will be exhausted in the care of the other groups. See that your program is made broad enough to cover all your welfare problems. HERE is a good deal of discussion about the basis of eligibility for these benefits. It is generally agreed that the basis for eligibility in all cases where grants-in-aid apply, as against insurance features, should be "need." I do not believe that our basis of eligibility should be as low as the basis of eligibility under the old poor laws that have come down to us from the time of Queen Elizabeth. Under those laws persons had to be destitute, they had to dispose of everything they had, to be in a position to receive help. I believe that we should accept a standard which makes an applicant eligible for assistance if he does not have the -ability to provide for himself and family the minimum requirements of a decent and healthful living. We must be careful in setting up standards of eligibility, especially in the field of dependent children, that we do not put a premium on the breaking up of the family. In our State for a long time we have put a premium on the breaking up of the family. Under Mothers' Aid we have been giving an average of about $5.00 per child per month, but 362 if the family breaks up, and the children become dependent or neglected, they are committed to the care of some children's agency, and then the County is required to provide $15.00 a month for the care of each child. Why not prevent the family from being broken up by making the care in the family adequate enough so that there will be no incentive to the breaking up of the family. If we are not alert in this matter our basis of eligibility and standards of assistance under the Security Act are still going to leave a premium on breaking up homes, and we should fight that. In the case of the blind, we should be careful not to grant aid without requiring that they take advantage of opportunities for training. We do not want to make them feel they are helpless, and must be permanently cared for. If there is educational and vocational training available see that they are required to take it in order to be eligible for assistance. WHAT of the responsibility of relatives? Are you going to make relatives take care of those in need before you give them assistance from the public treasury? I believe that there is a value sociologically in the laws which require members of a family to take care of their own. It stabilizes and strengthens family life to have such laws. A member of a family should-not be required to help his relatives if by helping them he pushes himself down below the dependency line, or below the line where he can provide for himself and family the minimum requirements for a decent and healthful living, but if a relative can assist a member of his family in need without reducing himself below the line of a decent and healthful living, he should be required to do so. Who would be the judge? Shall we let RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the social worker say, "You have relatives who should take care of you," or, "You cannot get assistance, you will have to starve unless your relatives take care of you." Perhaps that is unwise and impractical but surely we can say legitimately to those people, "If you desire the benefits under the Social Security Act, which are of a higher standard than those of our old poor laws, your relatives must assist. If the relatives being able will not assist, unless we can force them to assist under the law, all we can do is to take care of the needy applicant under the old relief measures provided in our Counties and States. WHAT about the requirement of liens on the homes of recipients of old age assistance? The papers are full of protests against liens being placed on the homes of aged people. If you provide for liens on the homes of those receiving old age assistance, see to it that the lien. Is in the nature of an agreement to reimburse; that it cannot be enforced until after the death of the aged person or the spouse of the aged person. If this is done there can be no possible hardship on any aged person where the State requires a lien, because the aged person himself cannot suffer, and the only effect is to require the children who have failed to take care of their parents, to reimburse the State and County before they profit out of the property which the old people have gathered to support themselves in their old age. There is this additional advantage in such a lien—it enables the State to extend the benefits of the old age allowance to people who have some property, and permits them to live in their homes, rather than requiring them to sell all they have and make themselves destitute ON THE TRAILS OF OLD KAIBAB before the allowance provided by the Social Security Act can be provided to them. FINALLY, the welfare system set up in your States should provide for local financial participation in connection with the State and Federal grants. I believe that no matter how fine the rules and regulations emanating from Washington or the State Capitol may be, they will not assure as fine an administration of Welfare laws as can be secured if your local people have to put up part of the money, and so have an interest in seeing that the welfare laws are properly administered. See that your local people bear part of the burden, and, you especially who know some- 363 thing of the value of training in welfare work, see to it that some provision is made for securing and maintaining standards of personnel in your departments, both State and local. That is one of the most difficult of welfare problems. THE Social Security Act is not perfect by any means. We shall without doubt have changes in the law and its administration for many years, but as a whole I believe that it is the greatest single step which this Government has ever taken to unify our welfare service and safeguard people against the major hazards of life. It affords us as welfare workers a great opportunity and an enormous responsibility. On the Trails of the Old Kaibab By Elsie C. Carroll II HELEN moved away in the arms of the stranger. She was in a new world. The music was crude; the floor rough. Her partner's khaki trousers, leather leggings, buckskin vest decorated with bright Indian designs, was a costume unlike that of any other dancing partner she had ever had. Her own sport clothes were quite in keeping with the occasion. How strange and unreal it all was. Suddenly she realized that apart from her finding out about her father, and adjusting to her separation from George, she was tasting a new life— a life which perhaps should have by rights been hers. "What do you think of the old Kaibab?" Steve Hayden asked. He guided her easily over the crude dancing floor, his cool eyes studying her face. "T think it's marvelous. Today as we came up out of the desert and drove into this magnificent forest, I was thrilled! It seemed to me that this old mountain knows a million secrets." Heyden laughed cynically. "I always wonder just how much you Easterners are putting on when you rave about the West. Why, for years my dad and Uncle Billy Crossly chased cattle over this country and didn't even know there was anything grand about the big gorge out there, or this patch of timber on the back of the old Buckskin. To them it was just good cattle country." Was he trying to tease her, or had he no appreciation for the country? She wanted to tell him that at least her father had sensed some- 364 thing of the wonder of the place, but instead she asked, "Do you mean that you can ride through that forest and not feel— well, I don't know just how to say it—but sort of lifted out of yourself?" He laughed again, his bronzed cheeks crinkling about his eyes. "I've sure rode through it hundreds of times without feeling any wings. It often seems more like a big demon, piling up long miles of hard riding." At least, his ugly simile indicated a bit of imagination. He was an interesting puzzle. He was large and well proportioned, but she could hardly agree with Miss Fitzgerald that he was handsome. His mouth was too large and his dark brows too shaggy, and a conspicuous red scar zigzagged across his right temple. But she had seen few faces more interesting. That tender twist at the corners of his mouth denied the cynicism of his eyes, and his chin suggested resolution and courage. "If the forest takes your breath," he said a moment later, "Wait until you see the canyon from Point Sublime, or Cape Royal, or Bright Angel. If you are staying over here at the Park for a few days, how about riding out to Point Sublime in the morning? There are views you can get from a horse's back that a bus or car can't take you to." "Oh, I'd love to do it! Perhaps, though, my riding experience has been inadequate for such a trip." "Not with Maje to take you. That horse has carried greener tourists than you up the old trails." "Do you—is it part of your business to—take out parties?" He grinned. "Well, no. I don't exactly run a dude concern, if that's what you mean. But sometimes when I'm not busy on the range, I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE like to ride out just to keep on speaking terms with the old gorge." "I'm glad you don't happen to be busy tomorrow." "So am I. It's fun to introduce kids like you to the old king." Helen flushed. She didn't know whether it was at the familiar term, or at the warm smile in the grey eyes which for the moment had forgotten their brooding. Quite abruptly she asked, "Who is this interesting Billy Crossly who used to run cattle with your father?" "He's that old scout you were talking to a while ago; the one who told the story about Uncle Jim Owens and the cougars." "Yes, I know. But just who or what is he? What makes him a character everyone notices and talks about?" "Oh, Uncle Billy's a part of the scenery and the history we're capitalizing on out here since some of you easterners discovered the Grand Canyon and let us in on it. He knows the old mountain by heart, as you gathered from his story. He sort of feels that he's in cahoots with that spirit of the mountain you were talking about a minute ago. He knew the country when it was just cattle land, before there was a national preserve or any of the restrictions that have put the jinks on the real West." "What do you mean by the real West?" What could be more western than what she was seeing and experiencing at this very moment. "Tt was the real West when the country was owned by the old cattle kings who fought over the best range sections and watering holes, and made a real ceremony out of roundups and brandings and shippings."' The music stopped. Steve clapped for an encore, but the bus-driver ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB interrupted. Would Helen come and see if he had taken off all her luggage? She followed him from the hall, and when she returned, Steve Heyden was dancing with the dark woman in the striped riding habit who, according to Miss Fitzgerald's lady Walter Winchell, should be barred from the mountain. Helen smiled. The woman was unusually attractive. It was easy to understand how her place could be a rendezvous for men, and she herself unpopular with the ladies. She studied the moving figures. How grotesque it all was: waitresses in green aprons dancing with city financiers; cowboys in leather chaps and gauntlets, and road hands in corduroys and khaki, guiding sophisticated society tourists over the floor. What sort of life had her father's boyhood been out here in the days of the old West to which young Heyden had referred? What if she should discover that some of the land, some of the cattle on this mountain really belonged to her? It wasn't at all probable, of course, that such a fairy-like thing should, after all these years come to pass—but if it could, how it would help to solve the problem of her future. WOOD RUSSELL broke in upon her musings. "If you're going to stay with us awhile, Mrs. Latimer, I'm sure you'd like to meet some of these folks. We get an interesting group of people out here. Every summer we have a cosmopolitan little community made up of tourists, artists, scientists, besides our own local brands of cowpunchers, rangers, workers, and so on. Some of the people have their own cabins and some stay here with us. But they all join in our social life." 365 He led her across the room. "Mrs. Hawley, may I present Mrs. Latimer?" They were in front of the fat woman Miss Fitzgerald had pointed out as the lady who came out to keep her husband from flirting. "Mrs. Hawley," Russell explained, "has a mansion up in Salt Lake City, but she leaves it to come out here and have a good time with us every summer." "I'm sure I don't blame her," said Helen. "Oh, I don't come because I specially like camping out, but my husband has a cattle ranch out here, and my daughter insists on coming, so I consider it's my duty to come and take care of them." "This is Miss Bernice Hawley," Russell said, presenting the little blonde sitting beside the mother. "Mamma, just thinks she has to come," the girl pouted. "I'd be all right without her." A little farther down the line Helen met Mr. Hawley to whom, she took an instant dislike. His small blue eyes were shifty. He looked at one from the corners of them. He seemed coarse and sensuous. No wonder his wife knew he'd flirt with every woman he met; but how could any woman respond to his advances?; He asked her to dance, but she told him she wanted to meet the rest of the people. WHEN she and Russell came to ' the group around Uncle Billy, the old scout excused himself to the others, "T recall that I promised this young lady I'd tell her something about the early days out here. Let's go back by the fire." "Now just what is it you want to know? My guess is that you're a writer and you want some Indian 366 stories, or maybe some unusual dope for a travel article." "No, I'm not a writer.' Helen hesitated. Should she tell this old friend of her father's who she was and what she wanted to know? Not just yet, unless he guessed. "I was interested in what you were telling about the days when this country was owned by what you called big cattle-kings. Were there many of them, and do they still own their property?"' "No and yes. In the old days the mountain was divided into a dozen or so big ranches. Each cattle owner claimed hundreds of acres of range-land and some good watering places. In them days big bunches of cattle could be seen most anywheres on the mountain, and the life of the cowboy was really as interestin' and as adventuresome as you folks out East ever imagined it was. "But that's all changed since the governments took this big chunk for national reserve and made such strict grazin' laws. The old cattle barons was all pushed off this part of the mountain to poorer ranges. A lot of 'em went clean out of business before they died. The rest of 'em didn't leave much of the real romance of the old days to their followers." "But, are there still men out here whom you might call cattle kings?" "Well, there's Hawley over there. He owns a big herd. But he ain't a cattle king in the way the old timers was. He didn't grow up out of the country like they did, startin' as a cowhand or a bronco-buster, and workin' up gradual to be the owner of a outfit of his own. And he can't make his own laws and enforce 'em like they used to." "What about yourself, Mr. Crossly? You've always lived here haven't RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE you? Didn't you ever become a cattle king?" "Not so's you'd notice it." There was a touch of wistfulness in his laugh. "I didn't have the knack, somehow, of gittin' ahead. I did have ambitions once, though. Me and Sam Huntsman and Steve Heyden's dad used to plan what we was goin' to do." Helen waited as eager as a child. But the old man paused and sat looking into space. Finally she recalled him. "Mr. Crossly, Huntsman now?" He started and his quick, dark eyes looked almost frightened. "They're both gone," he answered slowly, "'and the business they was doin' so well with—but you wouldn't be interested in that story. It's got too many sad or unfinished chapters in it." She was disappointed. The conversation had promised so much. How could she get him talking again? An outside door opened and a man entered. Uncle Billy got to where is Sam his feet. "There's the doctor from the Lodge. I've got to ask him how young Rockwood is. An aviator who takes folks over the canyon," he explained, "'had a little accident tonight and we sent for Doc Grosbeck." Helen started. Her eyes sought the newcomer. It was Ned Grosbeck standing there by the door—George's college pal who had been best man at her wedding. Quickly she slipped from the room. If only he had not seen her. HELEN awoke. Where was she? She turned her eyes from the rough log ceiling to the small window opposite her bed framing a WOMAN'S RESPONSIBILITY AS BUYER wide sweep of pine trees. She remembered. She had chosen instead of a room in the hotel this cabin. The walls were of split logs; the floor of rough pine boards. The plank door and two windows opened out to the valley. The sun was streaming through yellow cretonne curtains, and she could hear a squirrel chattering just outside her door. She got up and crossed to the window. Down in the grassy flat, scores of deer were feeding. They seemed a definite part of a carefully arranged landscape. The pines and quaking aspens bordering the valley appeared to have been marshalled in orderly troops and marched down to the foot of the mountain slopes. What countless numbers of trees! Some of them must have stood there for ages. Others were slender and more freshly green. She breathed in the clean air, and felt again that strange mystic personality she had mentioned to Steve Heyden the evening before—intangible, brooding, profound. "The spirit of the Kaibab," she whispered. She was washing her face and hands in cold water from a crockery pitcher on the small washstand, when she heard steps approaching. 367 She slipped on the orange and brown sport dress she had taken from her traveling case and answered the rap on the door. ''A letter for you Mrs. Latimer." The waitress handed her a square envelope. It was from Fred Grosbeck. "Dear Helen, "What luck to find you here! I couldn't be sure it was you when I first saw you last night, it was such a surprise; and by the time I had checked with Russell, you had disappeared. "Perhaps you and George didn't know I had been appointed medical director for the Union Pacific Lodge at Bright Angel Point. You've no idea how surprised and delighted I am to find you here. "Where's George? I must have a visit. Russell tells me you're going to stay here at the Park for a few days before coming on to the Lodge. Don't make it too long. I'll be looking for you. "As ever, "Fred." Helen crumpled the letter. What beastly luck! She'd wanted to get away from everything that would remind her of George until she could be absolutely sure about her decision to make a complete break with him. Fred, of course would try to persuade her to go back. (To be continued) Woman's Responsibility as a Buyer of Textiles and Clothing By Vilate Elliott, Professor of Textiles and Clothing, B. Y. U. "The economy of right uses depends largely upon the homemaker." "To woman it is given to add many-fold to the enjoyment which the wealth products of industry are able to secure." THE conditions of the American home have changed radically in the last fifty years. The woman of today can no longer do the things her mother did; so much of the housework done by her mother has been taken out of the home; yet the responsibility has not been lessened. As the work in the home decreased, the problem of buying 368 increased. Most of the things formerly manufactured in the home or, in many instances, grown in the home garden, are now purchased. Our mothers had their milk and egg money, which supplied many of the everyday wants. These reasons, connected with the decrease in the purchasing power of money, have greatly augmented her expenditures, until the demands are more numerous and the responsibility greater than' ever before, so that the success or failure of this, the twentieth century woman, depends upon her ability to adapt herself to the present conditions. A SCHEDULE for gaining the best results in spending one's time, money and effort should be deliberately formed and then adhered to as closely as possible. But even then failure and discouragement come. No one but a woman knows the motives, the plans, the hopes which actuate her in spending all she has to spend; but when she has given freely of her time and effort and the results are unsatisfactory, she feels she has failed indeed. However, with her experience, coupled with the cooperation of others and united with the many public. Demonstrations and the opportunities afforded in vocational training, with a determination to meet her difficulties squarely, she will renew her efforts; she will make herself competent as a spender. Then and then only will she begin to have joy and satisfaction in handling the money with which she has been provided. N some families, the mother is not the buyer; the father earns the money and then retains the right to spend it; he decides on the vital needs of the home and family. If a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mother spends any of the family income, she does it only under his direction or he goes with her and is the deciding factor as to the kind and quality of the article she buys. If she is given any money at all, she is expected to give a strict accounting of it. Frequently, with her lack of experience and business knowledge, she is unable to do this. A woman once said to me, "I sometimes wish I were back behind my stenographer's desk. All our family troubles are over money. My husband thinks I am not capable of spending the portion of his salary allowed for the house. When I was a stenographer I at least had the privilege of spending my own money. I earn the money we use as much as he does." And she was right. The income brought into the home is earned as much by the mother as by the father; it is just a division of the labor. She does not go to an office every morning, but she has all the care and responsibility of the home and children; in many cases this is far the heavier burden. When a man cannot see that his wife has equal rights with him in spending the income, particularly that portion that is spent for the home, there is a lack of right understanding and of kind and sympathetic cooperation. The mother knows the needs of the house better. She can arrange her time for shopping better, and she is usually a more capable judge of clothing. There are exceptions, but even if a woman is a poor buyer and has very little business ability, with the aid of a kindly husband to help her keep accounts, a determination to learn, and the opportunity of buying given to her, she will succeed. She will have satisfaction in spending the money her husband has brought into the home, showing him how efficient she can be in making the amount cover the needs of the family.
Women are responsible for the quality of goods on the market. They think of themselves as buyers not as demanders, yet the supply is dependent upon the demand. The demander not only creates the supply, but she is responsible to a degree for the character of the supply; therefore she will not get the best supply until she learns best how to make her demands. If she desires a higher and more practical quality of goods placed on the market, she must demand it wisely and intelligently: in this way she will help determine production. Ready-to-wear clothing is frequently put together so poorly it has to be gone over before it can be worn; fasteners sewed on, seams resewed, threads fastened, and numerous other little details. This should be taken into account when buying, it forms bad habits of dealing with worthless imitations, it has its effect on the buyer as well as the maker of the article. A real workman takes little pleasure in making such an article, his joy is in creating from good material something worthy of his time and effort.
Some families find it economical to buy materials and have the dress made at home by a visiting dressmaker, or put it out to be made by one. If the woman knows her dressmaker, she can frequently get a dress of style, with good lines, more exclusive, with greater individuality and better materials for less money than she could buy one ready-to-wear. But she must be sure of her dressmaker. An amateur cannot always visualize styles from patterns. She may place too much emphasis on the technique at the expense of construction; in such cases, the dress is not always satisfactory.
Other families buy the ready-to-wear almost entirely; they keep their wardrobe to the minimum by having practically one dress at a time. They wear it until it is soiled or loses its freshness, then cast it aside and purchase a new one. This type of woman never has anything really nice, her clothes are usually of an inferior grade, made in the latest fashion and purchased with little regard to their durability.
There is still another group of women who plan their wardrobe carefully. They have fewer gowns, but they are of the better type. They buy one each season. Great care is exercised in buying this gown, as it must last for several seasons; the style must be lasting, artistic, and exclusive. Each year they may add a dress or some other article to their wardrobe which will make it possible for them to be presentable on all occasions. Such a woman can appear better dressed with no more cost than the one who buys a cheaper grade of gown more frequently.
A point worth remembering in buying is for each woman to try and select clothing that will harmonize in color with her own coloring and with what clothing she already has in her wardrobe. In this way she can reduce the number of wraps, hats, gloves, shoes, and hosiery, since they will all fit into the same color scheme.
The intelligent buyer must have a knowledge of conditions of industries, of manufacturers, of branded or unbranded clothing, a common knowledge of staple materials, their widths, prices, their wearing qualities, their fastness to sun and water, what materials wear best for certain purposes. She should have some knowledge of costume design and of house furnishings, she should know the simple home tests of materials in order to judge of their values as to the kind of raw materials used. This knowledge will bring her the largest possible returns for her money. She needs some business training to estimate her expenses. A household budget is one of the best economic methods for the wise spending of income. The fifteen or twenty per cent allowed for clothing can be spent more advantageously by knowing the amount she can spend in a given length of time. She should take an inventory of the clothing on hand, then try to provide suitable and attractive clothing for each member of her family. Her scheme should be so worked out that not only the vital needs are supplied, but some of the wants and desires should have a place in it. This makes the burden of buying easier.
Every woman desires decent, wholesome, and, if possible, beautiful clothing; she wishes them to be comfortable and, to a degree, conform to the prevailing styles. Two essential points which make an article pleasing to the eye are its color and its line. If she has but a little money to spend and exercises good judgment and good taste in spending it, she is much safer in this whirlpool of fads and fashions, and will no doubt arrive at a selection of right choice that will go far to make up her environment.
There is a class, however, who demonstrate a lack of ability as purchasers by indulging in every fad of fashion; who feel if a dress shows any signs of wear it should be cast aside; a dress that has been worn long enough to have been seen by one's acquaintances is no longer wearable. "Change must ever be the keynote; what was worn yesterday must not be worn today." These fads and fashions usually lack utility; they are made in such a way as to denote the year or even the season of the year they were used. There is a constant pressure brought to bear on women to keep in touch with such styles. If a woman is sufficiently determined, she will see the pitfalls to which such dressing leads, but it does make it hard for the woman who really wants to choose wisely and who wishes to keep her wardrobe to the minimum number of articles.
One great difficulty in shopping with a limited amount of money is the beautiful window displays, the style shows, the big page of advertising on which are shown the very articles she would like, but does not particularly need. Often her desires are so strong she is completely carried away for the time and buys some of these things. She wears them a few times with the thought always uppermost that she did not choose wisely; she paid too much; she used money that should have been spent for other clothing of a more practical nature. One derives very little satisfaction out of such a purchase. It brings to mind the saying that "he who buys what he does not need will often need what he cannot buy." Also, "In olden times women thought and thought and thought before they spent, now they spend and then think and think and think."
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
June—now in the month of roses, sunshine and love may good will vie with nature, in bounteous gifts.
Marie Jose, Belgian crown princess of Italy, before engaging in Red Cross work in eastern Africa assisted the war cause at home by eliminating all luxuries and all wastage of light and heat and reducing food costs in the royal palace at Naples.
Princess Elizabeth and Margaret Rose, of New York, age 10 and 6 are being carefully trained towards the possibility of accession to the throne of England. The methods of the late Victoria are still paramount in the royal household in spite of modern trends.
Margaret Moores Marshall, research expert on the status of women in work, says, "Besides training, the assets of personality and character would help in raising the minimum wage for women by ability to do one's work well and intelligence to follow through and complete the task. If women would dedicate their work along this line they would help raise the minimum wage for all women.
Elizabeth Clevenot has been awarded a medal and named officer of the Tunison order of Miham Iftikar for research work in Northern French Africa. Only two women have attained this special rank.
Sonja Henie, Olympic Figure-Skating Champion, has decided to become professional and is dancing her way on skates to Hollywood.
Amelia Earhart is planning another solo flight, this time around the world. Purdue University is helping finance the trip and cooperating in the preparation of the "flying laboratory" for research work in aeronautics.
May Smith, age 22, of Idaho, made her maiden plea before the state supreme court, after which she had much profound advice for women aspirants to the legal profession. The reporters called her a second Portia.
Muriel La Von Goodspeed, of Utah, won a Dorothy Stone scholarship award which carries a film contract and six months training in drama.
Mrs. Maria Savage is still a member of the Metropolitan opera though past 71 years. She says of all the great stars Caruso was the most pleasant to work with.
Amelia Woolley Wardrop, 80, one of Utah's most beloved mothers, and a devoted Church worker, died early last month. She was an honored member of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers, a Gold Star mother, and an untiring worker in the Relief Society.
Pearl Buck will probably quit writing for awhile and devote her talents to the care of the twin boys recently adopted.
Gertrude Atherton's "The Golden Peacock," Margaret Banning's "The Iron Will," Ann Rand's "We the Living," and "The Lost Generation," by Maxine Davis, are new books of unusual interest.
WHERE THE SEGO LILLIES GROW By Lydia Hall
There's a trail I love to follow In a western desert land, On the shining hills it leads me Through the rocks and through the sand, Rocks and sand agleam with color Like a crimson sunset glow To a place of wondrous beauty Where the sego lillies grow.
I have seen the streets of cities With their many brilliant lights, I have seen the mossy woodlands Luring in their cool delight, But today I can't help thinking Of that trail and well I know That when springtime comes I'm going To the place where segos grow.
O fair flower of dear Utah May I always find you there With your snowy cup and fragrance, Always beautiful and rare, And at last in life's sweet evening When the sun is sinking low Let me lay me down to slumber Where the sego lillies grow.
TO MY WIFE By Carlton Culmsee
You have not given me all, You will give more. If my need sharpens and I call, You'll find another store Of helpfulness behind some hidden door.
This chapel where you dwell Is curious of design. There is no inmost cell With a last shrine. Each year unlocks a room more large and fine.
TIMPANOGOS By Belle Watson Anderson
Thou weird, mysterious woman. Cold and passionless as stone, Mystic veils float o'er thy forehead, Costly robes adorn thy throne.
Thou art beautiful in winter While in wedding gown you wait Bridesmaids dressed in white ensembles, But the bridegroom comes too late.
Terrible has been thy conflict, Wild throbbing heart has stilled, Silent feet, and noiseless turnings, All thy dreams still unfulfilled.
Thou hast seen a thousand sunsets Paint the skies behind the hill, Thou hast known the night's pale moonlight Languidly—without a thrill.
Gorgeous at the dawn, as humble, High achievement, unproclaimed, Silent words—tho' strong as granite Thou hast greatest heights attained.
Since sweet childhood days you've waited So constantly at my side, Others tired, strayed and wandered, Thou wer't mine—whate'er betide.
Some day, I shall loose my turmoil In the prayer of faith supreme Sometime, I shall know thy stillness, In a happy, trusting dream.
But that waiting, endless, changeless Always longing to be free, That hast turned thy stone to quartzite, Fit thee for eternity.
SMILES By Susan Rey
Most things get faded and worn When we use them every day But wearing a smile to work Improves us in every way.
Understanding Our Children By Virginia B. Jacobsen
Little Jean, age five and one-half years, cuddled up close to her mother on the davenport after their evening hour of stories. "Mother, I just love Ronny. I am going to marry him when I grow up." Jean made this astounding announcement without any sign of embarrassment. Her wise mother was equal to the occasion.
"Does Ronny like you, too?"
"Not very much. But I love him. Sometimes in kindergarten I just go up and squeeze him, I love him so much."
"Why do you love him?" asked her mother very much interested in the youthful confidence.
"Oh, he is such a nice boy. He is never mean to the girls, and he is polite in school. Some of the boys are so mean, but Ronny never is."
What a fortunate thing that this wise mother had inspired the confidence of her child at this period in life. How understanding of her to have met the situation as she did, instead of having shamed or repulsed the confidence as many mothers do.
The love impulse in children is as natural as breathing. A happy child is surrounded with love; he loves those around him because they love him. Therefore, it is natural for him to look for love and understanding at school, among his playmates no matter where he may be.
The child's first love is his mother, or the individual who nourishes and cares for him. This all-absorbing love usually lasts until the child is two or three years old. Then he finds new interests in his playmates. This interest may be in either boys or girls of his same age. Sex preferences play a small part, if any, in their attachments. At this stage they resort to all sorts of tricks to attract the attention and admiration of the other children. They embrace and kiss simply as an outward expression of affection for each other.
The next stage is reached during the early school life. For the first time they become fully aware of themselves as girls and boys. At this period a decided hostility seems to exist between the two. Boys, particularly, seem to look upon girls with decided disdain; something created purposely to annoy them. They frequently even resort to cruelty to girls in order to show their disdain to the other boys. This attitude does not always hold true with separate individuals. Often little boys of eight and ten prefer and enjoy the companionship of a certain little girl, but when in a crowd of boys they usually assume the gang attitude.
When the age of puberty arrives during the early teens, there is a decided change in the interests and attractions. Each becomes aware shyly, though pleasantly, of the other. The attraction between the sexes has begun. If at this time a child has the wise guidance and sincere confidence of an understanding parent there is little to fear. This is a beautiful period of development in the child and a wise parent will help a child to understand the mental and physical changes within him. There is nothing shameful or unworthy in his interests in the opposite sex. It is not a weed to be pulled up and cast out. It should be trained and cultivated, nourished and pruned a bit, a stray wisp clipped off here and there, until at last, a dependable and healthy growth rewards our efforts.
Countless questions will come into the minds of boys and girls of this age. If they have learned that mother and father are honest with them in all things, even in the matter of answering perplexing questions, they will come to the right source for information. But, if they have found in the past that mother and father avoid answering those all-important questions, they will seek their knowledge elsewhere. Parents cannot afford to let themselves be deceived in this matter. If their sons and daughters of this age are not coming to them for biological information they are getting it elsewhere in a manner usually far from right. Their informants are generally playmates who have been misinformed themselves.
The time to begin this biological education is when the child first comes to its mother with the question, "Mother, what are these two little pimples on my chest?" Or similar questions which come into every normal child's mind. If mothers and fathers have been honest and sincere in answering these questions, children will continue to have confidence in them when more serious questions come into their minds. Parents who shirk this responsibility are losing some of the greatest joys in life.
Following the age of puberty and the first awakening of interest in the opposite sex, comes adolescence and the beginning of real love for the opposite sex. If the child has had the wise and loving council of his parents he understands the impulses within him, and knows how to control them. He knows that they are natural and beautiful, and if properly guarded will bring him supreme happiness when he reaches adulthood. But it very largely rests with the parents just what will come of this love impulse.
A TRIBUTE TO FATHER By Carol Lyon Ash
Dearest father of mine, so precious to me: Another full year has passed— Father Time has taken you one more year On life's journey that's flying so fast.
Seems but a few short years ago Since I sat upon your knee, Hearing you read the poems I loved Or the stories so dear to me.
Memories of you are so sweet and clear— Seems time cannot efface Your loving words and tenderness— In my life, they found such a place!
I wonder sometimes why I was so blessed As to have such a father as you; I feel so unworthy of this gift to me When I know what I really should do.
I've met several good men in my life Who bear a resemblance to you, But to find one as perfect as you really are Is a task most impossible to do!
I haven't been blessed with earthly wealth, But the riches that are thine Are worth much more than money can buy— My heritage—Father mine.
May this birthday be a happy one, With loved ones by your side: May the peace and comfort you merit Be with you and abide!
May the years that follow be better still Than the ones you've left behind: Health, wealth, happiness—may they be yours— Complete with a keen, clear mind!
Do the Compensations of Motherhood Overbalance Its Responsibilities? By Edith L. Anderson
I feel sure that nearly every one believes with almost, if not quite, an absolute conviction that the compensations of motherhood do overbalance the sacrifices. We might go so far as to say that every mother in the world believes that very thing even though some are reluctant in admitting it; the reluctant ones usually being those who have given mother-craft a secondary place in their lives rather than making the rearing of their children their chief objective. The mothers who suffer and sacrifice the most for the sake of their children are the ones who experience most fully the highest compensations for their sacrifices.
However, since most of us are mothers of young children with many years of work and responsibility still ahead of us before our task of motherhood is completed (if ever!), there must be moments in all our lives—if not yet, there undoubtedly will be—when conditions are such as to make us wonder if our sacrifices are worthwhile, if we are really succeeding well enough to justify the tremendous physical and mental burden we have placed upon ourselves. But, if during those moments of uncertainty and suffering we can call to mind even one of motherhood's compensations, we shall find the courage to go on in spite of our difficulties, to the completion of our life's work.
It is generally recognized that the sacrifices of motherhood are, briefly speaking, physical and social. The physical sacrifices include loss of health and youthful vigor, in many cases an actual breaking down of health and nerves; the sacrificing of physical comforts, in accordance with individual circumstances. The true mother of course denies herself comforts, luxuries and even the necessities of life itself in order that her children shall survive and have their chance.
The social sacrifices mean first of all her leisure, the time which she devotes to caring for the physical, mental and spiritual needs of her family, which otherwise she would have for herself. The vast amount of work which she does makes it physically impossible for her to have as much social life as the childless woman; she is tied more closely to home; she is not free to come and go as she pleases. In addition to all that she has the great responsibility of her work, carrying with it mental anxiety and sorrow unequalled in any other walk of life. If there is anything greater in the world than mother love it is, perhaps, mother grief.
And so when that dark day comes when the task of motherhood seems almost too great, when we are so tired physically, so weary and exasperated mentally, so discouraged spiritually as almost to envy the well-preserved, seemingly carefree woman we know who has no children but who has, instead, all of her time and means for herself and her social or professional life, who has the exclusive companionship of her husband at all times (such as we enjoyed only before our first baby arrived) and who is apparently as much if not more appreciated and admired than we who spend our time and strength in toiling for the human needs of everyday life—when that day comes, what are we to think of that will bring us back to our normal state of mind and being, that of loving, cheerful, self-sacrificing, hardworking mothers?
Let us see. We must remember first of all that in many instances the childless woman finds herself, or is afraid she will find herself either pitied or blamed, and her attitude becomes one of defense against that situation whether or not she really deserves our pity or censure. Her activities and her seemingly carefree manner are but a gallant attempt to mask a disappointment and heartache such as we have never known; so that before we envy her we must pause to admire her bravery.
We are going to remember that in our homes we have a love and companionship that is warmer, truer and more lasting than is found anywhere else. A companionship that comes nearest to surviving all the tests of time and circumstances, which eliminates all possibility of loneliness and which warms our hearthside for us and for all who cross our threshold. We have a family circle wherein life may be lived at its very fullest and finest.
Then we shall remember that in motherhood we have an opportunity for intellectual development and self-improvement which can be gained in no other one field. In the physical and mental training of our children we read and study so many branches of learning that we give ourselves a liberal education and develop a sense of thought and reasoning beyond what we could achieve with a less impelling incentive.
Let us remember also that as mothers we develop in ourselves, consciously and unconsciously, the highest quality of character, those attributes which otherwise would remain undeveloped or at least only partially developed: I mean those superlative qualities known as patience, unselfishness and tolerance. We at various times have condemned ourselves for our lack of patience, expressing ourselves as striving for more and more of it and yet one would have to travel far and search long and diligently before finding greater patience than is practiced by most every mother. The unselfishness of motherhood is shown in every act of a mother's life, and that means in all that she does and is. Where else will you find utter selflessness to such a degree? And that greatest of all virtues, tolerance, for a larger measure of which all mankind today is struggling by every possible means, is more clearly manifest among mothers than in any or all other groups of individuals whether they be professional, political, religious or social.
That very tolerance leads to a kinship and companionship, a sympathetic understanding between mothers the extent of which cannot be measured. So having remembered that as mothers we have so much of love and companionship, self-development, and quality of character as to make us richer than we can hope to realize, if we still feel that our rewards are too few for our sacrifices, let us then remember that we have power, power second only to that of the Creator Himself over the helpless little souls entrusted to our keeping. Our children are as plastic clay in our hands to make or mar. The task of molding character may well employ to the utmost the best abilities of any woman.
Do we wish to use our power and influence in social service? If so, nothing that we can do will have a more potent, far-reaching effect for the good of society than the making of our children into good citizens. Though it may sound extreme, it is reasonable to believe that if each mother did her full duty in the home, if each mother mastered for herself the first great problem assigned to women—that of molding and training character, there would not be so great a need for a mighty army of welfare workers to relieve the sufferings of humanity.
Let us remember, too, that this vast work and responsibility which becomes ours in rearing our children, has a strong tendency to keep us in the straight and narrow way ourselves. For realizing as we do the importance of setting the proper example before our children and desiring by that example to instill the proper teachings into their lives, we are more careful of our own conduct, lest we defeat our own purposes and so that we may not lose the respect and affection of our children.
The commandment "Honor thy father and thy mother," is a mighty one. Children who, by the time they are grown, have failed to practice it, will then have brought disgrace to themselves and everlasting sorrow to their parents. That blessed commandment can work the other way, too. The child who is forced to grow up with a sense of inferiority and humiliation under the disgrace of the wrongdoings of his parents, is injured beyond all hope or possibility of recovery. His mind and his soul are irreparably damaged. So, I say, let us honor our children that they may do honor to us.
The little boy who is sent by his mother out into the night alone to return the marble which he had found and kept while knowing the owner, never forgets the incident and relates it when he is a gray-haired man. He remembers it not so much because of his fear of the darkness, for that will have been forgotten, but he remembers the sincerity of sorrow and alarm in his young mother's eyes, the not-to-be-imitated conviction in her voice as she told him there were few persons so despised as thieves, few crimes worse than stealing. It was from the whole of his mother's personality that he received that overwhelming impression of dishonesty. She believed with all her heart that dishonesty is a terrible sin—only by such sincerity can moral precepts be taught.
Finally, in completing our search for the compensations of our motherhood, if our task is well done, we have a sense of completeness, the satisfaction of having fulfilled our destiny in its fullness; and with the passing of time, in the accomplishments and achievements of our children we reap glory and distinction beyond compare. For just as Lincoln said "All that I am or hope to be I owe to my mother," so there is a saying "Like mother, like son," so true, The world will judge largely of "Mother" by you—Be sure it will say when its verdict we've won "She reaped as she sowed, Lo, this is her son."
The Awakening By Edna May Irvine
Mary Greenway was working in her rose garden. It was extremely warm and as she stopped her digging and pruning to wipe her perspiring face, she heard voices in quiet conversation. Peering through the foliage she saw two women turn in at her front gate. Mary went out but little and had few callers. Widowed soon after the birth of her child, she had taken her responsibility seriously and had devoted her whole time to the care of her home and daughter. She had often said that when her child was raised she would go out to meetings, but, though Lucia was now married and living in a near-by town, Mary was still a "home woman."
Mary was sure her visitors were the Relief Society teachers. It was the Thursday on which they were requested to make their visits and they were dutiful teachers. Mary soliloquized: "They can't see me so I won't let on that I heard them. It must be nearly noon now and I want to finish this job before it gets any hotter. Their chief reason for calling is to get a donation and with Lucia's birthday just past, I can hardly spare anything."
Mary had a feeling of guilty relief as she saw the sisters pass out the gate and continue on their way. Of course they might return, but she could say she was working in the garden and let them infer that she had not seen or heard them. She had never been a cheerful giver and had sometimes said that those who had to have charity were worthless poor more often than worthy poor. She had managed her own affairs carefully, had never accepted help and never expected to need help, and narrowly thought every one should fit into her mold. This was not the first time she had failed to admit the Relief Society teachers. Had she analyzed her feelings she would have realized that she could not say to herself, "Well done."
Mary again applied herself to her work. Her hat was in the way so she had thrown it off. Now her task was finished and she gathered up her things and walked to the house. She was indeed tired. It was unusually hot. She would go in and have a cup of iced tea to refresh herself and then lie down and rest a while. Mary always had to have her cup of tea. Of course the Word of Wisdom was all right but she was sure there was not much harm in taking a cup of tea.
What made her feel so queer? It seemed to be getting dark. She groped toward the nearest chair and then—oblivion.
When she regained consciousness she was lying on the floor. Someone was knocking. Mary tried to rise but couldn't, so she called, "Come in." Her voice sounded weak and she feared she would not be heard. She needed help. The door opened and in walked Sister Brown and Sister Adams, the Relief Society teachers, making a return call.
"Why, Sister Greenway, what is the matter?"
"I don't know. I just woke up and found myself lying here and I can't seem to get up."
They lifted Mary to the couch and gave her a drink of water. They made mention of her hat and garden tools and then she began to recall what had happened.
"We visited our block this morning and as several were not at home we decided to call again this evening. We were avoiding the heat of the day."
"This evening," said Mary. "Then I must have been lying here several hours."
The teachers looked at each other rather guiltily. "I wonder if you were lying here when we came this morning?" said Sister Adams.
Mary closed her eyes and moved her head from side to side but said nothing.
The sisters put her comfortably to bed and called the doctor. He pronounced it sunstroke, said it might or might not prove serious and recommended that Mary remain in bed for a week or more.
"Shall we send for your daughter, Sister Greenway?"
"No, no. Lucia will be down Saturday. They generally come on Saturday and remain over Sunday. Lucia has enough with her husband and child to care for. I'll get along all right."
The sisters would not think of leaving her alone and, as Mr. Brown was away for a time, Sister Brown said she would gladly stay until Lucia should come.
Saturday morning the following letter came from Lucia:
"Dear Mother:
"You will probably be disappointed to hear that we will not be down to see you for a while as we are leaving for Yellowstone Saturday at noon. I expected to see you before we left, but just can't make it. I know you will forgive me.
"The Simpsons are going with us or we would have taken you. We felt you would not enjoy the trip if the car were crowded. I'll send a card every day.
"Love and kisses from Lucia and Mary Beth."
Mary was visibly disappointed but uttered no word of criticism. Lucia and Harold had promised to take her to Yellowstone when they went and she had looked forward to it. Of course she would not have been able to go as things were now, but at any rate, she had counted on Lucia's coming this week end and remaining to take care of her. She couldn't impose on Sister Brown much longer. She would have to hire someone, yet she hardly felt able to pay a nurse. By being careful she had enough for her simple needs, but a siege of helplessness would soon exhaust her resources.
The Bishop and Relief Society president called and other sisters helped in relieving Sister Brown. The Elders came to administer several times, but Mary seemed to have lost all desire to live. She said she was no longer necessary to her daughter and if she were going to be helpless, what had she to live for?
"Perhaps you haven't demanded enough from your daughter," suggested Sister Brown.
"I haven't demanded anything from her. I always delighted to do all I could for her. I can see now that I should have cultivated friends and outside interests so that I would not have been solely dependent upon Lucia for happiness."
"It isn't too late yet," said Sister Brown. "When you recover you must come to the Relief Society and I am sure you will find social, spiritual, and intellectual interests that will give you new life."
"I don't feel that the Relief Society owes me anything, Sister Brown. I'm ashamed to confess that I saw you the morning you came to visit and purposely let you think I was not at home. I have never been loyal to the Relief Society or to the church, and this may be a punishment or perhaps the Father has just been good to me in showing me my error. After all the kindness I have received, I feel that I can never do enough to show my gratitude. If I recover, I must show it in service; if I do not recover, I must repay in some other way."
When Lucia returned and found what had occurred during her absence she was truly remorseful and she, too, learned a life-lasting lesson.
"Never fail to welcome the Relief Society teachers," her mother admonished her. "And never fail to give them a donation if it is your last cent."
Mary Greenway partially recovered and became an ardent Relief Society worker and visiting teacher. The weather was never so cold or so warm that it prevented Mary from visiting her block. No work was important enough to keep her from attending her meetings. She was never happier than when doing a service in a home where service was needed. Often she remarked that she had never before known what real happiness was, and whenever she bore her testimony she thanked her Heavenly Father for helping her to see the right way and for granting her the privilege of making up somewhat for her past indifference. She never felt that she could do enough and when she passed away it was found that, with the full concurrence of her daughter, she had left her worldly possessions to the organization she had learned to love so dearly.
IN QUEST OF HAPPINESS By Minnie Seaver
Once I wanted gayety and laughter With music soft and sweet, I thought I'd surely find happiness In the joy of dancing feet.
Again I longed for ruffled gowns, For stockings, silken sheen— Heels tiny and high, for parties revelry; Such was a young girl's dream.
Those dreams are over, I smile to remember— How little I knew of life— Long years have taught, that happiness Is love and sacrifice.
TO MY CHILDREN By Claire S. Boyer
You have made my world a wider plane, With horizons touching a clearer blue, You have helped me find the fairest peaks And roads that were straight and wide and true.
You have given me zest to travel far, And to help wherever I found a need, And tho' I was striving for you, my dears, It was I who profited most indeed!
The joy you brought was a deeper joy; The sorrow was light for my soul to see, The trouble gave strength for greater work,— You fashioned my spirituality.
So if a halo your mother wears, She smiles in an understanding way, Replacing the glory upon your heads, Each time the year brings your glad birthday.
A Challenge to Parents on Summer Nutrition Standards Anna Page, Nutrition Specialist
Children need more care, attention, and regularity for the performing of correct health habits in the summer than they do during the winter months when school keeps them within a schedule. More attention is needed for a summer health regime as there is a higher percentage of underweight and undernourished children in the fall than at the close of school in the spring. What are the reasons? Are parents willing to admit they cannot take care of their own child's health better than the public schools? Have they failed to realize that the purpose of the summer vacation is to give the child rest from school work and a chance to build up his health and resistance? Are parents aware that this deplorable situation exists?
Probably the greatest reason for this underweight condition at the end of the summer is irregularity in performing health habits. Why should children as soon as school closes be allowed to go to bed when they please, eat their meals when they want to, and especially eat all the fruit, candy, and other sweets they can get in between meals?
Regular habits of eating and sleeping are determining factors in building optimum health. Very often as soon as the stimulus of getting the child to school on time, and the necessity of having his noon meal ready for him on time is removed, the irregular habit is formed to eat when there is the proper desire for food, or when the time is convenient for the parents. Three well planned regular meals, served at the same time each day helps in doing away with the evil of eating in between meals. It is the responsibility of the parent to not only see to it that the child has a regular rest period, but also to prepare and serve regular meals during the summer as well as during the winter. Extremely irregular meals have a great effect on the child's nutrition. The body acts best when it has definitely established hours for eating, sleeping, and evacuations. If eating habits are regular, then the chances are greater that sleeping, exercise, and play will follow with regular habits and contribute to the optimum health of the child.
Consider the effect that irregular meals have on digestion and health. When two meals are close together, others far apart, and when the hours vary haphazardly from day to day, no definite habits of eating and living can be built up. The child will be over hungry for one meal and have little appetite for the next. Better digestion of foods take place when we have meals regularly. The stomach is better prepared to receive food when it is not taken too frequently or irregularly. The digestive juices secrete properly and better digestion results from the right selection of food and the correct intervals between the taking of food.
Parents will find that children eat in between meals more in the summer than during the school months. This is particularly true of undernourished, irritable children who do not seem happy unless they are continually eating fruit, candy, or bread and butter and jelly at all hours. While the practice of having a light mid-morning or mid-afternoon lunch is accepted by some authorities, there are no positive statements in nutrition which say that one should have only three meals a day. In England they have four meals a day, in Germany five or six, yet their health standards are doubtless as high as our own. It is this indiscriminate eating in between regular meals that causes digestive disturbances. Never having the child give his stomach rest before taking in more indigestible food causes many rear end collisions resulting in the intestinal tract as well as a great deal of trouble resulting in indigestion.
A child during the growing period usually has a good appetite resulting in good digestion. The child's digestive system usually functions better than an adult's digestive system does, providing the child does not abuse his digestive system by eating the wrong kind of foods and continually eating in between meals. Much of our indigestion that occurs later in life is caused by wrong food habits during childhood. It is unquestionably the parents' responsibility to protect the digestive system of the child and thus insure better digestion for the adult.
Perhaps the most common effect of "piecing" between meals is to cut down on the total amount of food eaten. A striking example of this is shown in the case of a six year old girl whose total amount of food was kept for twenty-four hours. This child put something into her stomach eight times between breakfast and dinner and yet her total amount of food eaten was less than half of her energy requirement.
Eating of candy or other sweets in between meals has the most serious effect by lessening or destroying the appetite for milk, vegetables, and other important foods and to thus crowd them partially or entirely out of the diet. As some children have more leisure time during the summer months, there is more of a tendency for them to want to have money to spend at the corner drug store. When the idea that nickels and dimes are not to be spent for candy and other sweets is overcome, the effect in better appetite and health will be rather convincing. Appetite dulled by sweets, as a rule, deadens a normal desire for mild, bland foods as milk, cereals, and vegetables, and highly flavored meats or more sweets are demanded for an appetite appeal.
Many parents have the idea that if children would only eat fruit in between meals that very little harm will result, yet when children are allowed to eat all the fruit they want this will take away their appetite for other essential foods. Where children eat fruit at all hours and without supervision, some of this fruit will probably be green. Green fruit contains irritating acids that are difficult to digest. As fruit ripens more of the starch is changed to a more digestible form of sugar. Unripe fruit may cause digestive disturbances, while fully ripened fruit may not have these detrimental effects. If good nutrition standards are to be maintained, children during the summer need to be watched more carefully and warned about eating a great abundance of ripe or green fruit. Fruit served as a part of the regular meals is the correct standard.
Children are very often underweight at the beginning of the school year because they habitually eat an insufficient amount of building and energy food. During the summer frequently, too, a large proportion of fruits and vegetables is used in the family diet which does not meet the caloric needs of children. For an adult this is usually a good rule to follow, but children need additional energy giving foods. Owing to the extra activity, the child's energy requirement is higher during the summer than during the winter. This is especially true if the child does any type of physical work or exercise. The average child who plays hard all day uses a great deal of energy. Many children run and play from sunrise until sunset without stopping except for meals. Thus the energy requirement is increased over the winter months when they have to spend a certain amount of time quietly in school. Obviously, there are only two things to do, first, increase the total amount of food or, second, do not allow the child to over work or over play. Some of the best ways to prevent this over stimulation is to have the child take an afternoon rest or nap or to devote some time each day to reading or quiet games.
The child needs as much or more sleep during the summer than in the winter. Food, sleep, drink, and exercise constitute the most important needs of the growing child. According to physiologists the demand for sleep is even more insistent than that for food, since lack of sleep will produce death more quickly than will starvation. Sleep like food is needed in far greater amounts by the young than by the adult. As children very often go to bed later at night and get up earlier in the morning their time of sleeping is cut too short for optimum health. The rapid spread of the radio in the last few years has become a serious cause of shortage of sleep both in the city and in the country. Night after night many children sit up until eleven or twelve o'clock in order to get the programs that are only given at those times. Parents should decide which is the most important for growing children, radio programs or sufficient sleep for good health standards.
A continual shortage of sleep, either in going to bed too late or getting up too early will affect the health of the child. During sleep the body processes slow down and the need for energy is the least the body can ever require, awake and active the needs are greatly increased. Thus every hour awake increases the fuel need of the body. Then if more food is not taken, the body tissues are burned and loss of weight necessarily follows. But in addition, loss of sleep causes a hyper-irritable nervous system. This nervous condition further increases the food needs, while at the same time it usually diminishes the desires for food. So lack of sleep tends to produce a nervous, irritable, undernourished child. PARENTS should no longer be satisfied in having their children somewhere near the normal weight for height and age. But the aim now is to have each child reach optimum health. However, normal weight is very important. There is no question that a child that is greatly underweight is seriously handicapped both physically and mentally. The aim of every parent during the summer vacation should be to help build up the child's health and thus increase his resistance in order that the child may enjoy his school work without fatigue. A number of recent experiments and investigations show that if the right foods were eaten, if sun baths 384 were taken, and sufficient amount of sleep and fresh air became habitual, resistance to disease can be built up. Children of school age should be encouraged to spend time out in the sunshine and fresh air. Parents should remember that the valuable rays of sun are only beneficial when they shine directly on the skin; that the sun rays are most intense during the middle of the day; that during July and August the sun may be so intense that it may be harmful. It is very important therefore that the child becomes accustomed to the sun very slowly. A gradual tanning of the skin is the thing desired. From some observations made in Switzerland, they found the ultra-violet intensity in summer to be twenty times as great as it is in the winter. This, however, will depend to a great extent upon altitude and humidity. Most children if allowed to play outside will get a sufficient amount of the sun rays, and yet will seek the shade in the hotter part of the day, thus avoiding detrimental effects. Older children need sun baths and sun rays for building up resistance rather than for the prevention of rickets. There is a possibility that right food and health habits and sufficient amount of sun will build up the child's resistance so that during the winter months many colds and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE children's diseases can be prevented. The foods best for building up resistance to disease are green leafy vegetables and milk. Children need two vegetables besides potatoes every day. At least one of these should be a green leafy vegetable. Often the child grows rapidly during the summer, so it is very important that he has each day a full quart of milk. In general, the foods which need to be increased in the diet are milk, vegetables, fruit, and whole grain cereals. The foods that need to be limited for the child are meats, excessive amounts of sugar, rich pastries, and an over abundance of fruits. A CHALLENGE is made to parents, first, to maintain the responsibility of helping the child practice regularly the health habits he has learned at school, second, to provide the child with the following essentials: 1. At least three well planned meals served at regular times. 2. Encourage the child not to eat between meals. 3. Required: amount of sleep with regular hours for sleeping. 4. Allow the child to spend a great deal of time in the fresh air and sunshine.. 5. No over stimulation, either in excessive work or play. BABY By Emma Rigby Coleman My baby's hands Are tiny hands As chubby as can be. I know not all the Powers they hold As he lifts them Up to me! My baby's smile Is a whimsical smile As elfish as can be. I know there's mischief Lurking near When he slyly Looks at me! His Mother By Irene McCullough ARY pulled her long robe closer about her. The unkind wind 'seemed determined to bury his teeth in her very bones. "I must hurry," she half sobbed, "He will think even I have deserted him." The tired feet moved faster for a few paces but soon lagged again. The hill seemed so steep and the troublesome wind did all he could to slow her down. 'The last three years of sorrow and turmoil had told heavily upon Mary. Condemned to die, He who had never given her a cross word, who was love itself, who had shielded her from all possible hardships, was now facing death. What would she do without Him? Who would care for her now? He had told her to be brave and brave she must be for His sake. How well she now remembered the words of the angel who had come to her before He was born. "Fear not, Mary: for thou hast found favor with God." "And behold thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus. He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest." Yes, and He was the son of the most High God and her Son also. A shaky but determined hand threw back the long white veil from her heavenly face. "Brothers, sisters, and friends may desert Him, but not I. Ashamed they say, afraid to own Him as their own. How oft I pondered as I rocked Him fast to sleep of the wondrous things that happened at His birth. The Wise Men, the Shepherds, and most of all, the good man Simeon of Jerusalem who had been promised he should not taste death until he had seen the Son of God. How when he took my darling babe into his arms the tears ran down his old and wrinkled face and he exclaimed, 'Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word.'" They were all gone now, but she was sure they would not have deserted Him. Again the weary feet quickened their pace but only for a moment or two. The rocky path made it so difficult to travel, and the gradual ascent made her breath come fast and hard. "God give me strength to hurry on," she prayed, "I must not be too late, He must know that I am not ashamed of Him. He is innocent, He is truth itself, God grant unto me this last request, I cannot fail Him now." The eyes in tearful agonizing appeal, were turned heavenward. "J must arrive before it is too late." It seemed as if the very wind had heard her prayer, for he had either quieted down or hurried off to other realms. The once tired and aching feet were now as light as air, her breathing was as calm as a summer's morn. The sloping hill seemed barely raised at all and rough places were made smooth and fair for her. Her face lighted up, she would arrive on time. It seemed as if the earth beneath her sped, as on and on she climbed to Him she loved. "How well I remember the wedding feast at Cana, when the wine ran low, I looked to Him and asked what should be done. He smiled and gave my hand a loving squeeze and 386 all my fears were calmed. The vessels by His side, at His command were quickly filled with water. Then the liquid was poured into the empty cups, and this new wine they all remarked was far more delicious than the first. A miracle, they said, but where are they now who once called themselves friends. They had deserted Him. They were ashamed. The head was lifted higher. She was proud to be His mother and the whole world should know, that she who held Him first in loving arms, was with Him until His last day on earth. She could now see the motley crowd and hear their cries. "Crucify Him, crucify Him, and on our heads let rest the blame." For a moment the devilish yells seemed to stop the blood from coursing through her veins, then a phrase she heard Him oft repeat echoed in her tired brain. "Yet, a little while am I with you and then I go unto Him that sent me. Ye shall seek me and shall not find me and where I am, thither ye cannot come.". His mission was nearing its end, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and He was going to that Father who loved Him so. The babbling mob could never abuse Him again. He was going home, to His eternal home. She knew all this, but oh twas hard to face the end, and that alone. She was nearing the summit of the hill, would she be on time? He must not die before He saw her face. The ruffians sank back as the small slim form with hallowed face held high, pushed to the cross. They dared not bar her progress. They were afraid. That face was more of heaven than of earth. She fell upon her knees before the cross. Her silent sobs shook the slender frame, when suddenly the voice she loved so well exclaimed, "Woman, behold thy son." Strong arms lifted her from off the ground. And Jesus continuing, said, "Behold thy Mother." "John the beloved." He was there. They alone knew the great meaning of His death. "T am the Resurrection and the life! He that believeth in me, though he die, yet shall he live." First Aid for the Picture Passion By Lorene Pearson seat in Dorothy's room. Ruffled dimity curtains softened the late afternoon sun. "You do have a lovely collection of pictures," said Madeline. Dorothy held up her best-loved print again. In the distance were exquisite, blue-shadowed mountains, in the foreground a dim figure paced to and fro on a stone balcony with eyes on the hills. Then Dorothy placed it in her gay cretonne folder with all the others and sighed. "I have a perfect passion for pictures, lots of pictures," she said, "but the interior decorators say, not too many pictures on the walls. Couldn't afford to have any more framed." "I know how you can have all the changes of pictures you want and still not buy any new frames, nor have too many on the walls at once," announced Madeline. Thoughtfully she examined the room. There was a little maple desk against the far wall. 'The largest picture in the room hung over it, a lovely "Alice in Wonderland"; the frame was beautifully hand-carved from maple wood and complemented the softly curved lines of the little desk. Pie girls sat on the window "It's lovely, I know," murmured Dorothy, "but I've outgrown 'Alice' just a bit. Or maybe I'm just tired of her. She's been there for years and years. I asked mama if I couldn't take her down and put up this blue print without a frame. She was a little disgusted I think. She said girls were a big problem because they changed their minds so often— first they have a positive passion for one thing and then in no time at all Besides, L a positive passion for something else. And I guess she's right." Madeline looked carefully at the other pictures on the walls. There were just enough for the small room. There were two hung in identical black frames, side by side, and there was a gilt frame around a dainty wispy little girl with a basket of flowers—the kind a six-year old loves. And Dorothy was fourteen. "Dorothy, why don't you use the same frames and put different pictures in them from time to time? My cousin Peg does." Dorothy instantly tripped over to the maple desk and lifted down her "Alice." "I've never fussed with the backs of one of these things, but I guess there's no reason why I can't learn." The back of the frame was nailed on all sides, but a letter opener easily dislodged the fastening. They lifted off the cardboard back and then the fragile picture. "Now take this cardboard," instructed Madeline, "and cut your large pictures to fit it, just a wee bit smaller if anything. If any of the pictures are a little too small for this one but too large for either of those black frames, paste it on a mat and cut the mat the size of this cardboard back. Nail the cardboard back on the frame then, but leave-the nails out of the top side so you can easily slip pictures in and out when you want to change them. Of course that means you have to do something about the upper edge of your picture to give it extra strength for the pulling out and putting in. Peg pastes a strip of paper tape along the top and that does the trick." Dorothy took her lovely blue print out of the cretonne folder. They 388 set to work and in no time at all the new picture hung above the desk in all its mystically blue glory. Dorothy danced around the room. "It's like putting on a new dress, everything is changed. And think, first thing in the morning the sun will find my beloved picture and I will wake to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE see it. And tonight, right now, let's light my candle under it." Dorothy's bayberry candle sputtered, then the flame flickered softly upward and illumined the picture and left lovely shadows in the carved niches of the frame. TO SPRING By Beatrice E. Linford Oft' I think the winter dreary, And the autumn's parting sad, In the summer's heat I weary, But in spring, sweet spring I'm glad! When the March wind's howl, and bluster Making demons of the night, The sweet thought that spring is coming Fills me with a strange delight, April brings refreshing showers, Birdlings mate, and build their nest, Buds are swelling, voices telling, "Of the whole year this is best."
Then comes May sweet May with singing, With her perfume laden air, With her whitened apple blossoms, And her lilacs blooming fair, Mingled with the sweet narcissus, The wild plums along the lane, And the meadow lark near bursting With a lovely sweet refrain.
Oh, sweet May, thou crown of springtime, Leave us not we pray too soon, Lead us softly through this springtime To the glorious days of June!
The Land of Books By Maude O. Cook
Traveler enters; studies traveler's guide; looks in all directions.
TRAVELER: Before me lies the Land of Books, I have come far to find it; much has been written of the delightful refreshment it affords the weary traveler. It is fair indeed to look upon. (Reads guide) I am told that if I desire peace and assurance, I shall find it here; if it is pleasure I seek, it is near at hand; if I would know of other lands and peoples, I have but to enter this enchanting realm; if on adventure bent, such conditions as I crave will be provided; or if I would escape from care, here in flights of fancy I may scale the heights and span the universe. (looks up from book) This is all well and good, but how shall a stranger, such as I, proceed to search out these marvels in so vast an expanse as this which lies before me? I know not how to begin nor where to enter.
Guide enters.
GUIDE: Welcome, stranger, you seem to be perplexed, let me assist you, I pray.
TRAVELER: Kind friend, I desire to enter the Land of Books in search of new adventures. I have been told that it is a most pleasing place.
GUIDE: The Land of Books is open to all, enter and enjoy the good things it has in store for all who would explore its wonders.
TRAVELER: I would gladly do as you bid, but the vastness of the field bewilders me.
GUIDE: I shall summon my helpers and they shall unfold to you some of the delights to be found in this fascinating domain. If you desire they shall accompany you in your travels.
TRAVELER: You are most kind; companions add much to the pleasures of a journey. A stranger in your good land would soon become hopelessly confused and lost if no one were at hand to direct the way.
Guide claps hands, Romance of Long Ago enters.
GUIDE: Here is a lonely traveler who wishes to visit the Land of Books; tell him where your path leads.
ROMANCE OF LONG AGO: I am Romance of Long Ago; if you follow me, oh stranger, I shall lead you into many lands and climes. Magic palaces, fairy god-mothers, dancing elves, mystic shadows are all along the wayside. The Orient, with all its gorgeous color and splendor, is awaiting you, to impress you with its strange witchery, its dreaminess and languid allurement, its entrancing mysteries and illusions, its pomp and ceremony. Here you shall meet Sinbad, the Sailor, Aladdin with his Magic Lamp, Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves; perhaps the Caliph of Bagdad, himself, that "great monarch of fiction" will honor you with a visit. You may explore the depths of India in "The Clay Cart" or you may go to the land of the north and listen to good, old Hans Christian Anderson tell of "The Steadfast Tin Soldier," or "The Ugly Duckling." You may wish to become acquainted with "The Soul of the Great Bell," a beautiful Chinese myth, or to have Hamilton Mabie retell those thrilling Norse Stories. You may follow Evangeline in quest of her long-lost Gabriel. If none of these appeal to you,—I am sure when you reach "The Land of the Blue Flower" you will wish to linger.
TRAVELER: You indeed have much to please and entertain, but I must hear more before I choose.
GUIDE: I shall call the Glory of the Commonplace.
Guide claps hands, the Glory of the Commonplace enters.
THE GLORY OF THE COMMONPLACE: I am the Glory of the Commonplace. I can show you no fairy god-mothers nor magic palaces, but I shall lead you to see the stars, the flowers, and the birds. I shall show you the humble cottage and the toilworn peasant. You shall sit with me by the fireside as the wind roars and the snowstorm rages without. You shall listen to the whir of the spinning-wheel and the sputtering of the apples as they roast upon the hearth, while tales of the long ago are recounted o'er and o'er. You shall crack nuts "from the brown October's wood" and drink the simmering cider from the old blue mug as you watch the sparks fly up the great-throated chimney. With Whittier in "Snowbound" you shall shout with glee as you watch the "half-buried oxen" break through the high-piled snow. You may go with Goldsmith to "The Deserted Village" and sigh for departed friends and old familiar scenes. You may stand upon the hillside with Gray as—
"The curfew tolls the knell of parting day. As the lowing herd winds slowly o'er the lea,"
and view the little village as it nestles round the ivy-covered church. You may rejoice in the tender humor of James Whitcomb Riley, as with mingled smiles and tears you go "Out to Old Aunt Mary's" or to "The Ole Swimmin' Hole," or meet "Little Orphan Annie," or "An Old Sweetheart of Mine." If this fails to please, you may enjoy romance with "Janice Meredith," or "Richard Carvel." In these simple, homely things you may find "Acres of Diamonds."
TRAVELER: Your offering is rich. (to guide) What have you more?
Guide claps hands, Soul Harbors enters.
SOUL HARBORS: I am Soul Harbors. I shall reveal to you the ideals, the dreams, and the hopes that lie nearest the heart. I tell of friendships lost, of dear ones gone, of sorrows mellowed with the passing years, of visions fair of glories yet to be. With Tennyson "In Memoriam" you may dream of another, greater life.
"That God which ever lives and loves: One God, one law, one element, And one far off divine event To which the whole creation moves."
GUIDE: We have given you a glimpse of the pleasures to be had in the Land of Books; there is more to offer. Perhaps you prefer the Magic of Imagination, if so you must meet "Peter Pan," or "The Blue Bird," or you may dance with the fairies in "Midsummer Night's Dream." You may choose to visit old England with "David Copperfield," or rejoice with Browning as "Pippa Passes." There are many nooks and secluded spots which offer rest and quiet where you may enjoy such choice companions as Benjamin Franklin, or Elbert Hubbard, or Sam Johnson; even Jane Austen or Jane Eyre may reveal to you their life's story. If you wish to journey nearer home, we shall introduce to you, Lambourne's "Piet" or Alfred Osmond's "Exiles," an epic of the Utah pioneers.
TRAVELER: Yours is a realm of charm and allurement. You whet my desire to know more of it. I would explore it all if that were possible.
GUIDE: My friend, on the 3rd Tuesday of each month we conduct a Relief Society excursion into this wonderland and all who wish may join us.
TRAVELER: I am most happy to have so great a privilege and assure you I shall not fail to meet you on the 3rd Tuesday of each month.
Suggestions for costumes: Traveler and Guide: Hiking togs. Romance of Long Ago: Oriental costume, gay and bright. Glory of the Commonplace: Plain dress, such as the Quaker costume. Soul Harbors: Soft white robe.
HAIL THE DAY TRIUMPHANT By Ida R. Alldredge
Lo, after the night time of darkness and doubt When the windows of heaven were closed, A vision of glory burst forth on the earth A youth its sweet message disclosed.
The mothers of men, who for centuries past Had bowed 'neath servitude's ban Were raised to their rightful God-given place And the Era of Progress began.
Chorus: Hail, oh hail! The day triumphant! Praise Jehovah and rejoice, That the Heavenly portals opened And the Prophet heard God's voice.
Oh, the glory of the dawning, When His servant turned the key And showed us a work of service In our great society.
As women of Zion, awake and rejoice, Make known His plan to the world, And bear to our neighbors the spirit of peace With our banner so proudly unfurled.
The Gospel of Christ its truth will unfold Its rays ever brighten our way. The path which our Prophet has bade us to tread Will lead to the glorious day.
The Way By Elizabeth H. Welker
The parents of a child will make any sacrifice to give that child the best life has to offer. But, what is the best? Wealth? A college education? Undoubtedly through childhood and the early teen age school is the best place for children. But what is best for them during the upper teens—when life looms so big ahead of them—when they cannot tell which way to go or which way they want to go? They are swayed first this way, then that. Which is the way?
Parents of Latter-day Saint children, will you listen to those who have found the way? Let them tell you as they told us recently, in a Testimony Meeting in Berlin. These are young people speaking, they range in age from nineteen up through the early twenties, but they have found the way. They are Missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, laboring in the German-Austrian Mission. Here are testimonies of some of them sent to us by their Mission Mother:
Sister Welker writes: "So many times my heart has thrilled at the testimonies of our Elders. There has always been one regret, that the world could not hear them, especially the mothers.
"There is such a need for Elders in all the Missions, and the young people need the 'Mission.' I have tried to catch the spirit of their message. While it comes from Germany, it is the spirit of all the Missions."
Here are the testimonies of some of them:
"I did not care about coming on a Mission. I thought a Missionary had to sacrifice a great deal, but I have learned that the more you sacrifice the more you gain."
"I have learned more about real life values in these two years of Missionary life than I learned in four years of college. The President of this Church gave me the greatest gift there is in this world when he called me on this Mission. I had my 'Sheepskin' from college but I was not happy. I was selfish, I had no joy in what I did. Today I have learned to make sacrifices and it has brought me real happiness."
"Money does not make people happy. I learned that much at home. You have to be satisfied within to be happy. I have learned that, in the mission field, I have learned to be happy."
"Humility is the greatest thing a Missionary can have and my expense account is the test of my humility. When my expense account runs high I find I am not nearly so humble as when it runs low. Spending a lot of money does not bring a Missionary happiness, it is when he spends the least, when he is humble, that he is the happiest. Christ promised if we would live His Plan, we would know for ourselves. I have learned to know."
"I have never had so much satisfaction in my life as I have had since coming on this mission, after two years of college. I know though, 'It does not make so much difference whether I came from a monkey or not, it is whether I go from here as a monkey or a man, that counts.' I hope that I can always feel as I feel now."
"If you want to lose your faith, just try being inactive. I had had three years of college and when my Missionary call came I turned it down. I got away from the Church and my grades began going down. It was not so easy to get back. I cannot tell you how happy I am now to be back at work in the Church. I am happier today than I have ever been, for I see that life has greater possibilities than I had ever dreamed before."
"This is the most practical and happy life that I have ever known. I have been to college, but I think I have learned more on this Mission than I would have learned in five years of college, if I had really studied."
"I have learned that our message needs no fine trappings, just the garb of Truth, for it is the Truth."
"I have learned not to look for great miracles but to accept the small blessings that come my way, they are miracles and they have filled my heart with joy."
"I wanted to be intellectually honest with myself and I said I did not know this Gospel was true, but soon learned that I wasn't deceiving anyone but myself. I think I have always known that it is true."
"In this world there are no absolutes. I thought I did not have a testimony. I wanted an absolute. I know today that this Gospel is true. I have learned that you have to live for a testimony before you get it."
"Before my Mission my religion consisted of trying to see the other fellow's point of view and trying to give him a square deal, but I have learned that there is much more to true religion than that."
"I have learned that it does not matter what I do against Truth. Truth comes from God and will prevail. I know now that this Gospel is true and that it will prevail."
"I wanted to make others as happy as the Missionaries had made my own dear Mother, that is why I came on a Mission. I know that my Redeemer lives, my heart is full of joy."
"'God moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to perform.' My Father died here in the Mission Field. I couldn't help but wonder why? Though it was a very sad thing, I know now that it was all right. When Brother Gurr died a few weeks ago, I couldn't help but wonder again, why? But the change that has come over our Branch since his death is astounding. Perhaps Brother Gurr did his work in that way."
"One man has said, 'The strongest part of the Mormon system is its Missionary work,' but I have learned that it is the "Spirit" that makes the successful Missionary. A Missionary has to be humble."
These young people have found the way, true they may lose it again, but surely the chances are not so great as if they had not found it at all. And yet they are not in the Mission Field to save themselves, alone, their first work is to bring the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to others. Truly, "He that doeth it unto the least of these my brethren hath done it unto me."
Notes to the Field
Special Activities
In hearty accord with the Churchwide program of relief and recovery, the Relief Society has suggested two Projects for Summer activity within the organization. Details of these have been sent to every Stake. There is an opportunity in these great projects for the members of the Church, forgetful of self, to grow spiritually, to attain unity and happiness, if they enter whole-heartedly into this cooperative enterprise. Because a brother or sister has had misfortune, he should not be deprived of the blessings of service. There is a wonderful opportunity of knitting together the lives of those whom the forces of the world have tended to separate. Let us build to a high degree the "we" feeling, and make every effort to give all the joy of cooperation. When the Relief Society meets together to sew as a group, every effort should be made to get the sisters out and make them feel they are a part of the group giving service and getting the joy that comes from the social experience. Neighborliness might well be revived—three or four uniting on a special project. Report blanks have been sent to the Wards and Stakes of the Church. It is hoped that a careful record will be kept upon these sheets. The Ward will forward its report to the Stake, where it will be compiled and sent to the General Office. It is safe to say that at the conclusion of the year there will be a record of achievement made, difficult to equal.
Text Books
As already announced the advance course of Relief Society lessons will be published beginning with the August issue of the Relief Society Magazine. It might be well, however, to suggest the texts which will be the basis of the lessons in all courses: the New Testament for Theology; Civic Sociology, by Ross, will be used again for Social Service; and the three Biographies—Abraham Lincoln, The Life of Julia Ward Howe, and The Life of Alice Freeman Palmer, will be the texts for the Literary course. These books are all available at the Deseret Book Store, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, where they may be obtained for study during the vacation period.
Work and Business
The names of Work and Business class leaders that were given to the committee at April conference have been sent to the firms named below. We hope that you will receive some advertising material that will be helpful as suggestions for your handicraft sections.
The American Crayon Co., 116 New Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California. The Q. P. Craft Co., Inc., Sandusky, Ohio. Fireside Industries Inc., Adrian, Michigan.
Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary
New Zealand Mission
President Beatrice Dalziel, First Counselor Florence P. Westlake, Secretary Catherine G. Ross; back row: Second Counselor, Ruby Thompson.
The above picture is the Presidency of the most southern branch of Relief Society in the world. These dear sisters are fully alive to the interest and appeal of Relief Society work, and have sent to the office some very beautiful hand embroidered linen, a sample of their thrift and skill. This message and this picture from the sisters so far away is merely another evidence of the fact that distance is forgotten, and that the band of sisters the world over becomes one in the aims and purposes of our great Relief Society organization.
Texas Mission
A very interesting report of the Williamson Organization reached the office through the columns of a newspaper. To quote from the paper: "A unique organization, that goes quietly about extending aid to families, as far away as Orange, on one hand and Evadale on the other, is the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
"Heading the organization now is Mrs. Sadie Williamson, and more than a score of women meet regularly, sometimes at the church, sometimes at the homes of members, putting up fruits and vegetables, making quilts and doing other sewing.
"A part of the church, which is on a high knoll in the Williamson community, of which the women are particularly proud is the large kitchen. Through their own efforts, the women have furnished the kitchen, and stored in the low shelves at this time nearly 250 cans of vegetables and fruits. All were grown in the gardens of the Relief Society members. During the canning season the women assemble and make this preparation to serve the needy.
"Just how much food in past years has been given away, or how many quilts have been made and either given outright, or sold and the proceeds turned over to charity, is a matter which even the Relief Society members could not estimate.
"The Williamson Settlement itself is one of the oldest in Orange county, or this section, being established at a point on the route where many thousands of cattle were driven to market on the Old Spanish Trail. It is estimated that it is about seventy years old, and many of the descendants of the former settlers now live in the community."
While the organization is officered entirely by Latter-day Saint women, there are many who assist the Relief Society in its work who are not members of the Church.
Western States Mission
A most interesting and full report of the splendid activities of the Western States Mission comes to us through the President, Sister Winnifred B. Daynes. This organization is animated by a real Relief Society spirit, and the marvelous development of the work is manifest in the accounts we have of the growth of its organization. The above picture is that of the Pueblo Branch Relief Society. It was sent to the office some time ago, and the account of the activities of this organization within the one year is an evidence of that which is taking place all over. A year ago they were disorganized, now they have an enthusiastic group of women who are active members in every sense. They have a stock of fruit and vegetables prepared, they have improved their Relief Society rooms, and furnished their kitchen with the latest improvements. They are a fine group, working in harmony, and eager to carry on the splendid work of the organization.
The second picture is of the Denver organization, with Sister Daynes and her helpers in the center of the group.
The Mission represents 25 organizations, with a membership of 514. These cover six of our Western States, and the reports from the Mission show that the work is practically on the same plane as that conducted in the various Stakes of the Church.
Cache Stake
A most interesting account of the Garden Project of the Fifth Ward Relief Society of the Cache Stake was sent into the office. We are submitting this report in full, as we think it offers excellent suggestions that may be put into effect in all parts of our Relief Society work:
"For the past two and a half years our Fifth Ward Relief Society has developed a garden project that has proved very pleasant. A garden chairman gathers or accepts plants, bulbs and seeds that are the surplus of their home gardens. These are offered to any members of the Society who wish to plant them. There is no cumbersome attempt at exchange. The beginning gardener has nothing to exchange for her plants except the labor of caring for something that will be enjoyed by all who see it. On the other hand, the full garden has no room for more plants, but it is heartening to find how many persons are eager to give roots and seeds for no other return than the pleasure of sharing them. It is an effort at cooperative enrichment of the gardens and the only records of the transactions are the plants that live and the feelings of friendliness that last even after the flowers die.
"The plants are wrapped in paper and brought to the meeting. Sometimes they are all placed in grateful hands before the meeting starts. If not, about three minutes of the meeting time are used to announce what plants are homeless. When possible, the flowers of the plant are brought to show exactly what the roots will produce. We have often given Iris roots with the blooms upon them. But most plants cannot be divided in the blooming season, and so we show the flowers, with a brief announcement of the name of the flower and the fact that roots will be offered later. House-plants are shown in the Winter.
"The marginal gardener who is almost too busy to work outside of her house can carry home a Michaelmas Daisy, and if she can just get it into some ground that is watered, it will probably bring her lovely blossoms the next Fall. Also, the gardener that gave the root will have lovelier daisies next Fall because the roots were thinned. It is a plant parable: 'He that loseth his life shall save it.'
"At first we tried handing out the plants during the meeting, but it stole time from the lessons which are already crowded into such a short period. So we changed to our present system of a very brief notice in meeting with questions and answers before and after the sessions. Something like a little garden club may gather and discuss ways of starting rose slips or storing dahlias. Of course many of the roots die because of inexperienced handling, but the gardener can ask the reason for her failure and try again.
"Some very choice plants have been passed to new gardens. Here and there in the Ward you may see thriving little shrubs that were handed out as tiny roots. These are the physical gains; they are worthwhile, but the main reward is spiritual. The work is one more avenue of interest and friendliness.
"We are making this detailed report with the thought that some other Ward might enjoy such a project as much as we have."
Minidoka Stake
We think Minidoka Stake should be justly proud of the record made during the last year. In August the Stake sponsored a tonsil clinic, during which time a number of children who had been physically unfit for school were given proper attention. The doctors cooperated with the Relief Society sisters, and did a most excellent work. This continued even after the close of the clinic, as a part of a project is to have all the children whose throats and eyes needed attention, looked after.
During the entire year the Stake was vitally interested in the Visiting Teachers' work. In the beginning a banner was awarded to the Ward having 100% teaching accomplished. It was not long until two Wards claimed this distinction, and so there had to be a permanent award made to the Ward which had 100% Visiting Teaching during the entire year. This Ward was also given a cash prize for its fine achievement.
In January of the present year a project to bind the Magazine was undertaken, and has been carried on very successfully. The Stake Singing Mothers have done excellent work, and are in great demand throughout the Stake. They have furnished the singing for various gatherings, including Stake Priesthood Meetings and Stake Conferences.
For three years the Stake has conducted its Annual Banquet for the Board Members and their partners. The decorations have been of a patriotic character, including the Valentine motif. On March 17th, the Relief Society of the Stake, in connection with the Genealogical Society, sponsored a Temple excursion, in which ninety-five people participated. The Stake is alive to its opportunities, and the value of planning. Many projects are under consideration, and fine cooperation with the other Church organizations, and some of the civic groups, is expected in the prospect of creating a recreation center for children during the Summer.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
THE GENERAL BOARD
LOUISE YATES ROBISON - President AMY BROWN LYMAN - First Counselor KATE M. BARKER - Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - General Secretary and Treasurer
Emma A. Empey Ethel Reynolds Smith Annie Wells Cannon Rosannah C. Irvine Jennie B. Knight Nettie D. Bradford Orlene H. Hart Hazel H. Greenwood Lotta Paul Baxter Emeline Y. Nebeker Cora L. Bennion Mary Connelly Kimball Amy Whipple Evans Janet M. Thompson Elise B. Alder Belle S. Spafford Inez K. Allen Donna Durrant Sorensen Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - Mary Connelly Kimball Manager - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - Amy Brown Lyman
VOL. XXIII JULY, 1936 No. 7
EDITORIAL
FREEDOM
An old-time story relates that Father Time sends into his storehouse at the beginning of each year twelve persons who are to select the things they desire to bring with them when they come to earth. Thus each month comes laden with rich gifts. June brings Father's Day, Flag Day, a bevy of happy brides, vacations, beginnings of delightful trips on sea and land, a host of graduates who are told and feel that upon their shoulders rests the responsibility of setting the world right. June is a month of joy, of forward-looking thoughts, a time of beginnings, and so we heartily welcome her and give thanks for the wonderful gifts she brings.
FATHER'S DAY
Mrs. J. B. Dodd of Spokane, Washington, writer of legends, well-known as the creator of "Children of the Sun," tribal studies of the American Indians, has the distinction of originating Father's Day. She started promoting the idea in 1910 as a tribute to her father, William G. Smart, a Grand Army of the Republic Veteran, who had reared his children after their mother's death. She launched the movement in Spokane by presenting a petition to the Ministerial Association of Spokane "urging such constructive teaching from the pulpit as would point out the importance of a father's place in the home, concerning the protection of womanhood and children, training of children and safeguarding the marriage tie." It was four years before Congress recognized the day. Its celebration has been of slow growth. While the newspapers helped by giving the movement publicity, they at first treated the idea rather facetiously. They said, "father's main duty in life is to pay the bills and crank the Ford." Now the day, the third Sunday in June, is coming to be more widely celebrated each year. The red and white rose is chosen as suitable flowers. Telegrams, letters, visits, gifts to father, while not as numerous as those to mother, are constantly increasing in number.
So many think fathers do not care for words of praise, appreciation and love. What a mistake! They are thrilled when their own children honor them. They are deeply moved when expressions of gratitude and love reach their ears. We hope every reader of our Magazine will do all possible to increase the expressed appreciation to fathers. May they be lovingly remembered not only on this day set apart in their honor, but every day may their children not only by word but also by living worthy lives honor their fathers who have so willingly toiled and sacrificed for the wellbeing of their sons and daughters.
A TESTING TIME
The Latter-day Saints will now have an opportunity to show how strong is their faith in inspired leadership. They now have a chance to demonstrate how wonderfully the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints functions. A call has been made and organizations are being effected to meet the unemployment situation in the Church and to see to it that the Church members shall provide for those in their own organization who are in need. While special efforts will be made to raise means and supplies, the God ordained laws of tithing and fast offerings if faithfully paid would more than meet the needs. The Relief Society will play an important part in helping to provide for the needy. We hope all members who can will increase their offerings to this organization and will labor in every way to provide food, bedding and clothing as directed. This is a testing time for the people of the Church. May they respond to the call whole-heartedly, then not only will the needy be looked after but spirituality will increase throughout the Church.
A NEEDED ADMONITION
It is a strange thing that even religious organizations in order to raise funds will indulge in games of chance, and raffling is one of them. It is dangerous doctrine to say that the end justifies the means. Organizations had better do without means that they think they very much need than get such in any questionable way. The Church of Jesus Christ has come out again and again against raffling and all games of chance. Spite of this we find occasionally people trying to get around it by selling a chance and giving something that they claim is worth the price for which the chance is sold.
In the Millennial Star of March 26, 1936, Apostle Joseph F. Merrill, President of the European Mission, in an editorial calls attention to an item appearing in the public press in which a Vicar criticised conditions in his parish. He made reference to "a growing curse of betting and gambling that is ruining homes and characters." He said, "There is little or no parental effort to give a true motive for life because they don't know it themselves."
"Betting and gambling are sins—they are grave violations of a Christian moral code. They are debauchers of character, devices of satan to bring unbelief, sorrow, distress and suffering to God's children. Losses and disappointments due to gambling—betting is a species of gambling—not infrequently lead to crime and suicide. These vices are a black blot on the character of any person who indulges in them. They are usually secretly engaged in, for none given to these vices is fully trustworthy, and therefore cannot be given a responsible position where the handling of money is involved. No trust company will go surety for a known gambler.
"No practice or activity that aims to get something for nothing is truly honest. Hence no type of betting can ever be honest. Oh yes, we know; some respectable people engage in betting. But this does not make betting respectable. No vice is made a virtue even though a bishop engages in it. How unfortunate! Even in this 'green and pleasant land' betting appears to be so general that it has become a national vice. No wonder the Vicar called his parish a godless place. A faith strong enough to take the people regularly to divine services cannot exist in any community given to any species of gambling. Gambling and a love of God cannot dwell together.
"The Vicar spoke of parents' failure to motivate properly the lives of their children. Those who have no faith can hardly develop faith in others. Is this not the real reason why the gentleman can complain of a 'godless indifference'? For unless the parents are God-fearing, the children are not likely to be. 'Like begets like,' faith begets faith. No man can have a greater responsibility than that of parenthood. God will not hold him guiltless who does not try to develop faith in his children.
"Readers, a strong active faith in our living Redeemer, Jesus Christ, is the greatest need of the age, both for the individual and the nation. If such a faith were universal, vice of every type would disappear and love would rule the world. God hasten the coming of such a day, for come it will!"
Although we have announced that we would not publish any more Magazine Drive reports until our next fall drive, we publish herewith one more. We have learned that for some unknown reason this report did not reach our office. The Presidency, Lillie C. Larson, Emma S. Christiansen and Elnora A. Christiansen did all the canvassing, and were delighted with the increase in subscriptions in their Ward.
Ward Stake Enrll. No. Sub. % Mayfield Gunnison 64 63 98
"AND NEVER WILL"
Jim: "Too bad, ain't it, that Repeal ain't balanced the Budget, nor reduced taxes, nor pushed off the bootlegger, nor chased off unemployment, nor brought true temperance, nor nothin'!"
Joe: "Yeah, but Uncle Sam orter ha' known by observation that nobuddy ain't never pulled theirself outa' trubble with a corkscrew!"— Union Signal. A Study of Civic Sociology as a Foundation for Intelligent Living
INTRODUCTION
MANY people profess an interest in the social forces which form the warp and woof of daily life, but it is evident that most people live on the plane of least resistance with no consciousness of the influences which shape their existence. Among those who have some knowledge of social trends there are but few who pattern their behavior according to the ideals which are taught as part of social welfare. But knowledge is ineffectual without the deeds to back it up. The goal of social study is to stimulate actual participation in social movements. By evaluating individual responsibilities it is hoped that group welfare may be furthered. In pointing out the relationship between its members and the group it is to be hoped that the social service lessons will teach the interdependence between individuals and society. The welfare of each depends upon the other. The mistakes of each react upon the other. The complexity of the problem is bewildering to the layman. And yet, if he is to understand the forces which govern the methods of his living, he is called upon to modify the habits and beliefs which have become fixed as the result of his life's experience. He must adopt new points of view to meet the everchanging conditions of society. This is difficult to do, and he is dependent upon the quality of leadership with which he comes in contact. Parents, teachers, educators, and church workers are among the leaders and molders of character in every community. If their leadership is lacking in understanding, society suffers. These social service lessons are designed to help Relief Society workers, among whom are numbered leaders of society, to understand the social forces which are brought to bear upon daily living, to modify their existing opinions to meet the trends of the day, and to develop the ability to adjust to new conditions. They should encourage members to enlarge their present spheres of social service.
The lessons in the 1936-37 course of study, drawn from the great social issues which are attempting to better our living conditions, our educational system, our methods of government, and our economic principles, have a practical application for each reader. The understanding of that application and the reader's response to its challenge is the test of success. Attention is again directed to the general purposes of the entire course as published in the May, 1935, issue of this magazine. Each class leader should bear in mind these objectives. For reemphasis they are again stated:
1. To develop spirituality through the promotion of human welfare.
2. To realize that the study of sociology contributes to the understanding of the great social problem of living well together.
3. To acquire a knowledge of human relations leading up to our present form of social organization.
4. To teach the individual her relations and duties toward social institutions.
5. To develop the habit of investigation and of active participation in the solution of individual and social welfare problems.
6. To realize that social evils do not happen without just cause.
7. To develop an intelligent attitude toward participation in all civic affairs.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XXIII JULY, 1936 No. 7
CONTENTS
Utah—My Promised Land...........................Bertha A. Kleinman 403 Frontispiece.................................................. 404 Woman, The Home Maker..........................Nephi L. Morris 405 The Rocking Chair Route..........................Dorothy Clapp Robinson 409 The Great Gift.....................................Minnie Seaver 411 She Was a Mother....................................Theodore Martineau 419 On The Trails of the Old Kaibab....................Elsie C. Carroll 421 Understanding Our Children........................Virginia B. Jacobsen 426 No Country is Settled Until the Women and Children Come............Elizabeth Cannon Porter 428 Nauvoo Exodus......................................Bernice Phillips Gibbs 429 The Contributions of Women and Women's Organizations to the Priesthood....Janet M. Thompson 431 The Unprepared Teacher............................Merling D. Clyde 432 Writing and Pasting................................Yvonne Adamson 434 Patriotism.........................................Edith E. Anderson 437 Prayer............................................Drucilla H. McFarland 437 Peace.............................................By a Mother Who Knows 439 Happenings........................................Annie Wells Cannon 442 The Peace That Passeth Understanding.............Mary Nolan 443 The Possession of Pottery.........................Dorothy Nell Mair 449 How Does Your Religion Function..................Fern Killian Grote 451 Books of the Old Testament.......................Leona W. Forsgren 453 Waiting...........................................Ethellyn Jones 454 Notes to the Field................................. 455 Notes from the Field..............................Julia A. F. Lund 456 Editorials: Freedom........................................... 459 Brother and Sister Lyman Called to the Mission Field................... 461 Close of Season's Work............................. 461 Minerva Richards Knowlton.......................... 462 Character Building of the Little Child.............Ida M. Durnin 463 Hidden Worth......................................Eva Willis Wangsgard 465 Appreciation......................................Matilda F. Mortensen 466 Earth's Symphony..................................Linnie Fisher Robinson 466 Child of the Hand-Cart Train......................Camilla W. Judd 467 Mother............................................Bertha M. Rosvear 468
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
MOTHER'S DARLING By M. H. Olephant
Eyes of blue, so roguish, too, Rosy lips all smiling; Tresses swirl, and sweetly curl, All staid form reviling; Dimpled hands a' sifting sands, Sunshine 'round you falling, Merry play each happy day, Mother's Little Darling.
O my dear, just frolic here, Ne'er a pang of sorrow; Laugh and love, my Little Dove, 'Til the swift tomorrow. Years may bring us ev'ry sting: Life holds rough trails, Dearie, But the Lord, by His great word, Crowns His trav'lers, weary.
MY BABY'S LAUGH By Nona H. Brown
I've heard magic music of the bow In the master's gifted hands, And flute-like voices read lyric poems Of wondrous places and lands.
In gorgeous and costly theaters I've heard world-famed songsters sing With voices that lilted, thrilled and rose 'Til the rafters seemed to ring!
Oh, I've heard in the dim, cool, woodland The song of the Hermit Thrush. And the joyful song of the Skylark. Burst magic-like on dawn's hush.
'Til my soul like the bird soared upward, In quivering ecstasy, And joy complete, unutterable, Filled the singing soul of me!
In beautiful, stately, cathedrals, I've heard choirs, wondrous rare. And it seemed to my heart-like heaven, With the angels singing there.
The coy, evening, breeze I've heard, sighing His love to the fragrant rose, Listened with awe to the brooks gay song, As it danced on silver toes.
But to music that's far, far, sweeter, My soul has in rapture bowed, For today in my humble kitchen, My wee baby laughed aloud!
GRANDMOTHER By Mary Stallings
I don't know of anything I'd rather do, Than to sit at your feet, And listen to you, Oh Grandmother mine, With your eyes a-shine.
I don't know of anything I'd rather hear, Than the tales you tell Of the brave pioneer, Oh Grandmother mine, With your smile divine.
Do you think that I, If put to the test, Would leave my home And all I love best, For a Cause sublime, Oh Grandmother mine?
WE MEET AGAIN By Ellen Jakeman
At last my lips sing one glad song; Your letter comes across the main, And bears this message to my heart:— "This is the year we meet again!"
The mountains swim in frozen mist. Snow rests on wintry lake and plain; But flowers are blooming in my heart, This is the year we meet again.
What matter now the lonely years? Since joy will cancel all the pain; Time, toil and sorrows are forgot,— This is the year we meet again!
There never was a heart more true; Love, hope and faith are not in vain! Beloved of my inmost soul, This is the year we meet again.
Should one be called to realms above, And one required to here remain, We know, as now, when tasks are done. We two with joy shall meet again.
Utah—My Promised Land By Bertha A. Kleinman
Where the peaks of the Rockies lift their crest To commune with the western skies, There's a land I love—it's my own homeland And to me it is Paradise.
There the skies are blue with a deeper blue, There the fields are green with a richer hue, O Utah—land where my dreams are true, Is the Promised Land to me.
Where the rivers wind to the Inland Sea, With the song of a thousand rills, Where the valleys proffer their golden grain To the arms of the circling hills,
There the mountains open their gates ajar, To welcome the world from anear and far, O Utah, land of the Morning Star Is the Promised Land to me.
Where the snow of the sego lily drifts Over the valley and wold, Where the desert mates the green of sage With the sunflower's tawny gold,
There the wild of the prairies love to roam, There the seagull dips in the salty foam, O Utah, land of my mountain home, Is the Promised Land to me.
Where the hands of the Builders carry on And the dream of the Pioneer Is a Statehood welded with Brotherhood In the wake of the old frontier,
There the fruited trails of the plain attest Where the feet of the conquerors have pressed, O Utah, land of the Golden West, Is the Promised Land to me!
MOUNT OWEN FROM THE GRAND NATIONAL PARK AT JENNY LAKE
The Relief Society Magazine VOL. XXIII JULY, 1936 No. 7
Woman the Home Maker: The Pioneer— Her Exalted Place By Nephi L. Morris
THE homes of a people determine the destiny of the nation. In the same stronghold lies the power and fate of the Church. Homes are institutions which are almost entirely the expression of the personalities of the women who make them. Men build houses and women transform them into homes. The woman is the soul of the sacred institution and when she is not there the home-spirit has also gone. Where she is, is home. This line of reasoning suggests that home is a spiritual thing. The elements which contribute to its making are the graces and tastes, spirit and accomplishments of the woman. Her personality is seen and felt in every feature of the home. These inestimable qualities cannot be bought with money. Peace, trust, security, warmth, welcome, love are things not for sale at the stores. They are the spiritual endowments and adornments which find perfect development in the divine art of home-making. These exquisite qualities are innate in woman. Girls early manifest the sublime gift in play-houses and doll tending in the crude make-believe creations they start in childhood. The instinct is unerring and prophetic as all true instincts are.
WHEN Deity started man on his career back on the border of time he gave him an help-meet and transformed the botanist and biologist with his catalogued lists of plants and animals, all properly classified, no doubt, into an emotional creature and the reaction of the woman upon him made him delightfully human. This was the first bit of pioneering begun on the earth. The woman element was essential in the enterprise then and ever since. Some modern pioneers seem to omit from the records the contribution made by the women in their heroic achievements. We think we have seen a monument erected to the pioneers of a certain large area consisting of many towns and villages, with the names of the pioneer men boldly inscribed upon the faces of the monument. To the amazement of a visitor there appears to have been done in that community the most miraculous piece of pioneering ever done in the world. Towns and villages, city homes and farms, schools and play grounds and never a woman in the picture. This appears to be a wonderful accomplishment, one quite beyond the ability of Deity back in Eden. This instance is the more remarkable because the pioneers of Utah and the Rocky Mountain empire distinguished themselves from all who came before them in the fact that they brought with them in the first company and every succeeding company women and children. As a matter of fact there can be no pioneering without woman. The home, an exclusively feminine product, is the chief factor of civilization and pioneering is not pioneering if it does not civilize and develop the cultural arts which spring into being in the homes and thereby glorify community life. This explains the age-old maxim about the "hand that rocks the cradle, etc." Social security and all that human welfare holds dear lies in the depths of a woman's soul in the transcendent Powers exercised by her in home making. All things are influenced by this most ancient and most sacred of human institutions. The home is the abode of the holy trinity of mortality—the Father, Mother and the Child. As they are revered and loved, civilization is secure. Where they are debased the very heart and soul of humanity is imperiled. From the home comes the ever-flowing stream of human energy, human ideals and ambition. The boon to mankind may also be found in the ever increasing wants that also come from the home. This gives rise to industry, culture, and prosperity. Human ingenuity arises magically to supply human needs and that is the incentive to material progress. Genius is born and nurtured in the home. Patriots are made there and not in politics or public office. They are often ruined in both. Gentle women and gentle men are the flowering gifts of the home. Geniuses receive from the home atmosphere and spirit their first inspiration which often carries them along the rugged path to glory. For these reasons it is vital, if we would get the most out of humanity, that the home be pure, wholesome, democratic and cooperative in spirit and abounding in opportunity. The spirit of God must be there to fit and qualify the individual members of the home for life's mission. Geniuses, or persons of possible distinction, often come to homes of unfavorable environment. That is because they were excellently endowed to begin with. Unquestionably the pre-existent life gave opportunities for development of spirit tendencies which are gifts from their heavenly home and they re-appear in their earth-life still seeking adequate development. If, because of his nobility of character, or other specific endowments, an Abraham, or a Jeremiah, may be chosen before his birth in this life for special missions among men, may there not be others likewise sent, ordained previously to attainable destinies?
EVERY well ordered home, established on the principles of sacred care of all souls intrusted to its keeping should contribute to the unfolding of all noble instincts that are intended to equip every child for its earthly career. In this respect the home becomes an ally, or co-partner, with Deity in making the most out of each child born into the world and thereby ennobling the individual and enriching the race. Can there be an earthly institution of greater importance than the home? These things being true is it not reasonable to assume that every home has its mission and opportunity, as well as its responsibility, to promote the life of the individual and thereby the whole? Think of the home that sheltered a Newton, or a Michael Pupin; a Washington and a Lincoln; a Steinmetz and an Edison. What an important thing is the home. Is it to be wondered at that Deity should make the home a special object of divine concern? It is not going too far to believe that if certain souls have been fore-ordained to certain missions on earth that certain homes may have been chosen for those souls to be born in. Such favored parents share in the high duty of shaping race destinies. And perverted masses of mankind are nothing but neglected souls of many generations. Here are the words of the Lord on this subject to this generation: "Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion... That teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ, the Son of God, and of baptism and of the Holy Ghost, by the laying on of the hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents.
"And they shall also teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord."
THE family group is a sacred one. The welfare of each is the eternal concern of the whole. Each one, because of the bonds of love that entwine them all to each other, holds in his life the happiness of the whole. Salvation is collective as well as individual. Our salvation is in a manner wrapped up in our kith and kin. As Andrew Jackson approached the end of his life he said to his family: "My dear children and friends, and servants, I hope and trust to meet you all in heaven, both white and black." The last sentence he repeated, "both white and black." He said this looking at them with tenderest emotion. A few days later, as the end obviously approached he said, "Heaven will not be heaven if I do not meet my wife there." This is in harmony with the law of life as we know it in mortality. Heaven will be natural and governed by intelligent laws. Such hopes are normal to all earthly unions under wedlock sanctified by love. No matter if the marriage vow does limit the duration of the earthly relationship established in the covenant which reads: "To love and to cherish till death do us part." No one can ignore the relationship which has once existed in mortal motherhood. Bonds of the tenderest character, begotten offspring of the noblest sort—eternal souls bound together by the ligaments of human hearts are by nature intended to be eternal. Separation would be a painful tragedy. God designed them to be together eternally.
THE Apostle Paul taught the doctrine of the eternal union which should extend from mortality to immortality as between husband and wife when he said, "Neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man in the Lord." That means that in the economy of the Heavenly Father, the union made sacred by parenthood should be perpetuated in the world to come. President Jackson's hopes are well founded. They express the most natural instincts of the human heart. Shall that which is noblest in human nature, maternal love, with its Godlike devotion to a sacred responsibility, be forever abolished or obliterated in the change we call death? And that thereafter only the masculine shall survive? Shall the Mary whom the angel said had "found favor with God" in that she had been selected as the mother of the Lord and to whom the promise was given, "henceforth all generations shall call thee blessed,"—I say, shall her nature then be, in some unthinkable manner, neutralized, and her ennobling virtues nullified? Could she ever become anything more lovely, more beautiful, more glorious, than the Mother of Christ?
The destruction of personality is impossible. Personality is the essential part of the soul and is quite as indestructible. She will always be Mary, "the Mother of Jesus." So will every other woman, who is mother, if she be worthy of her exalted motherhood, be eternally the mother of those to whom she gave birth. Together the man and the woman, with their children, if they obey the celestial law, shall march down through the eons of time eternally progressing and there shall be no end to their kingdom. They shall be added upon and there shall be given to them eternal lives. We think that is what Paul had in mind when he spoke of the inseparability of husband and wife "in the Lord;" i. e., if the Lord's will be done. Upon the occasion of the presenting to the Boy Scouts of America, the Mortimer L. Schiff Scout Reservation, Governor A. Henry Moore quoted these few lines as a tribute to motherhood:
"Gone is the builder's temple, Crumbled into dust. There lies each stately pillar With consuming rust. But the temple the woman builded, Will last while the ages roll; For her beautiful unseen temple, Is the child's immortal soul."
Shall she whom we enthrone in the highest exaltation on earth be dethroned in the hereafter? Shall we deny her a place in the skies which we so willingly accord her here on earth? Not as long as the mother-begotten instincts of nobility throb in the human heart.
FOR a full hundred years the Latter-day Saints have sung in their congregations the beautiful hymn called (improperly, I think) "O my Father." Originally it was called "Invocation" or the "Eternal Father and Mother." We call this a new idea concerning motherhood. It should not be so regarded for the reason that Paul tells us that we have had "fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence; shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of our spirits and live?" It is perfectly natural to believe that whenever, or wherever, there are fathers of human beings, there are at the same time and place, mothers. And so, the well known "Mormon" hymn unfolds this beautiful principle which deifies motherhood. Here are the four lines containing "Heavenly Mother" doctrine:
"In the heavens are parents single? No the thought makes reason stare; Truth is reason, truth eternal, Tells me I've a mother there."
Inspired by the great light which has come to the earth in this day, Eliza R. Snow, sister of the late President Lorenzo Snow, composed this hymn which is regarded as a revelation of a divine truth. With singular appropriateness it was left to woman to make known, in verse, the truths contained in this well known hymn. The hymn I have long regarded as a theme which in scope and prophetic forth-shadowing is, in fact, a biography of all souls as they run their course through the eons of eternity. Thus in the light of a new day, woman's place in safe-guarding all that is pure and holy, uplifting and exalting to the race, in this world and in the one to come, the Latter-day Saints see her eternally enthroned in the heart of the world. She is an ally and co-partner of Deity in whose care he entrusts his children and to whose skill and power he commits their training and development. Shall the product of her hands, the fruitage of her soul, the flower of her affection stand higher than she! Her place is near the throne of God.
The Rocking Chair Route By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
I SHOULD have been a man. That being the case I could have traveled the earth's broad surface picking flowers of satisfaction in unfrequented and inaccessible places. I might then have become rich and famous. But I am a woman and as such must do my adventuring vicariously while my feet of clay cling to their ordained path of Repetition and Routine.
NEAR my home is a desert. I love to ride along the oiled highway that runs through it. But I love much more the numerous little dirt byways that spring from it. There is something so inviting, so intriguing about their half-disclosed, half-hidden tracks. I look at them and long for the days of saddles and pack horses. When, seemingly, there is nothing between earth and sky but sage I come suddenly upon a trail, that starting boldly from the highway, grows modest and with a quick turn defies me to follow it. Often the trail is so faint it's very indistinctness challenges the imagination. Just what is it trying to hide? Is there something especially precious ahead that needs be hidden from a curious crowd? Occasionally there are sign posts. One says, "to Grandview" and I look wistfully toward the Owhyee Mountains in the blue distance knowing this road leads to them. But what lies between? There is another sign that says, "to Black Creek." Now what is Black Creek? Is it a creek, a canyon, or a mere name for one of those places where a creek should be? I watch intently and see black shadows between high mountains but to the right are rolling slopes covered with a green that can be nothing less than fall grain. Ahead. Ahead. Someday I shall find out what lies beyond. Being a mere woman and steering wheel shy I sit sedately beside the Man of the Family and follow his inclination which is the shortest line between two points.
BUT there is one way I can go where the Spirit listeth and no man shall say me nay. That is the Rocking Chair Route. Through it I am able to explore not alone the Blue Owhyee Mountains and the Black Creek Canyon but the dry stretches, the sage slopes, the unexpected coulees between. By this route I can explore not Idaho Mountains only but all the Mountains and Plains that are upon the Earth. By turning pages I may see Nature in her wildest, darkest or gayest mood and hear the medley of her voices. Someone spills words trippingly from the tongue. One chants a prayer. A mother cries out in anguish. A lover whispers sweet promises under a silver moon. I hear them all. Nor am I limited to Time. There comes the roll of drums, the marching, marching of endless generations to the west. The step by step upward struggle. The emerging of Good.
BY following this route I find Selma Lagerlof with her Rings and Curses and Milkmaids of Old Sweden. I hear the clatter of farm men as they gather about the fire in the evenings. I hear the deep tones of her bells of the New Jerusalem and catch my breath over her view of the Eternal City. Along the same byway I discover Johan Bojer. I travel with him the fiords and forested slopes of Norway and with his Emigrants weep over the abundance of life-producing soil in the Dakotas. In the same general direction but reached by dark toilsome ways is Anna Karenina and a host of her countrymen led by Count Tolstoi. But these are for a darker mood and not to be traveled with too great familiarity so I hasten back to Flanders Field. I climb with William Tell among the Swiss Alps and while resting take a swift peek into a glamorous old Castle on the Rhine. Then down the Blue Danube toward the Far East. Pausing by the Black Sea I scan the battle-scarred hills of the Crimea and exult that courage could make good come of so much evil and ignorance. Then away and away to the Seeonee Hills where, with the children beside me, I sit on a sheltered log and listen for the Night Song of the Jungle. In the chorus we recognize the deep voice of Baghera; we catch the Cry of the Wolf Pack and the chatter of the Bander-log. We see, too, the shadowy figure of Little Toomai on the broad back of Kala Nag and from over the plains of Punjab we listen again to The Tales from the Hills. Sometimes it is the Orient that attracts me and I watch breathlessly The Pageant of Chinese History unroll before my eyes. The gorgeous silken robes, the stately manner, the filial devotion arouses within me all I have of courtesy and nobleness.
THERE are days when the Known in history and human relationships is too evident and I sneak back along the road of Time hunting the Neanderthal man and the Mysteries of Peoples long since dead. This path is marked with careful diggings and persistent reconstructions. It leads me into the Great Southwest, to the almost inaccessible fastnesses of the Andes and to the jungles of Central America and Mexico. The way is not clearly marked here and one must hunt carefully lest they be deceived by spurious signs. I wander among Ghostly Ruins, Weird Tradition and scarcely glimpsed visions that makes more vivid the journeying and teaching of a Chosen People. I finish it with more faith in Things That are to Come.
THERE is another trail I never travel except in a chastened mood. It is a long, long trail winding a thousand miles over prairie and desert and through mountain defiles. It is marked by nameless graves and hallowed by the Tears and Heart's Blood of a Mighty Host. I finish it with tears in my eyes and thanksgiving in my heart. I bow in Reverence before their Courage while I vow in my heart to live worthy of my Heritage.
It is a satisfying way this Rocking Chair Route of mine. It holds no discomforts. It costs nothing and has the added attraction of eliminating Time and Space. I can be in The Heart of Midlothian one day and With Byrd at the South Pole the next. When you are tired try it.
The Great Gift By Minnie Seaver
"ISN'T this the loveliest gift?"
Excitedly Virginia Morgan extended a tanned arm for her Grandmother to see the small jeweled wrist watch. It was her birthday gift from William Hartley, Summerville's new doctor and decidedly the "Catch" of the season.
"It is very pretty, dear," agreed Grandmother Morgan slowly.
"Grannie, you don't think Mother will mind my keeping this, do you?" she asked anxiously. "She made such a fuss when William gave me those crystals, and of course this is a lot more expensive."
"My dear," said Grandmother slowly, "It isn't that she doesn't approve of Dr. Hartley or doesn't want you to have the things you like, but you have only known him such a short time and—"
"And she's afraid Bob wouldn't like it. Well, what if he doesn't? After all I'm not married to him, and I'm not at all sure that I ever will be. A girl has to consider a lot of things when she gets married. I'd like to marry someone who'd take me places, who could buy me some clothes and a car! Mother's idea of a summer vacation is a one-day picnic, taking the children. And her idea of a formal is a print dress with organdy sleeves."
"I don't see nothin' wrong with Mom's ideas. Who do you think you are anyway, the queen of Ethiopia?" questioned the lanky John, looking up from his book.
"You keep still," blazed his older sister, "I never get any nice clothes and you know it! Since I graduated from high school I've had only two dresses that weren't made-overs, and never any jewelry! When somebody gives me something nice, like those crystals, Mother thinks I shouldn't keep them—because Bob wouldn't understand! Why, you'd think I was already married to him, to hear her talk!"
"Well," volunteered John, "If he ever finds out what kind of a temper you've got, you won't have a chance to get married to him."
"Is that so? Let me tell you something, when he comes home from that mission he may not find me waiting to marry him! He isn't the only man on earth and what's more when I get married I intend to get something out of it. I'll stay single all my life before I'll marry a man who can't give me the things I want! Bob won't even have a job when he does get back."
John, having returned to his book, offered no further comment. Grandmother looked at her strangely and went back to her sewing.
"You think it's all right for me to keep this watch, don't you, Grandmother."
"I think you should be allowed to decide for yourself whether or not you want to keep it."
"And will you tell Mother that?" hastily interrupted Virginia.
"Why yes, if you want me to. I believe I know a story that would interest you."
Virginia looked doubtful, but she had not yet outgrown the little girl habit of prizing Grandmother's stories, so she sat down on the rough board floor of the porch.
"We want to hear it," assured Grace and she immediately began moving her large family of nondescript dolls. Grandmother was constructing a new pair of legs for Beth, largest and homeliest of the doll family. When John, always loyal to Grandmother's stories, had carefully placed a leaf in his book for a marker, Grandmother began.
"MY story begins in early spring in far-away England. A young girl whom we shall call Dorothea, was waiting for her father in the parlor of her home. She walked slowly around the familiar room, stopping before each of the numerous portraits on the wall. Serious men and women looked down at her from their massive gilt frames.
"She stopped in front of the mantel and glared angrily at a bewhiskered gentleman. 'You even look stubborn,' she accused. 'And I suppose that it's only natural Dad should have inherited your disposition! The idea of giving up everything and going to that place called Utah. Why can't he listen to reason.'
"As a matter of fact no one in the family quite understood Father Dale's attitude. His sister, Mrs. Melba Morriston, complained, 'If Richard wasn't so stingy with his words a body might reason with him—but then he's so set in his ways 'twould probably do no good anyway.'
"Mr. Dale knew what he wanted and what he was going to do. He silenced all arguments by repeating again and again, 'I'm convinced that the Mormon religion is true and Martha and I are going to Utah where we can live that religion and build a new home in a new land.'
"He looked forward to the journey and did not understand his wife's reluctance. Martha did not try to explain. Her love for the big house where she had come as a bride so many years ago, would have been hard to put into words. She loved each room, rich in the memory of the childhood of her children, and perhaps most of all she loved the ivy that crept up the wall by her bedroom window. She had planted that ivy the year her first child and only son had been born. Now it stretched across the whole west end of the big brick house and the little trailer that blew constantly across the window sill reminded her of John. And there was always a comfort in cutting the ivy and taking it to the cemetery to lay on her baby's grave. But Dale was her husband, his life was her life and so, silently, she made preparations to go to this far-away land now called Utah.
"Many busy days passed before the house was finally sold and the goods that were to be taken packed. Virginia sometimes glimpsed the pain in her mother's eyes. Pain which the quick drooping lids could not always hide, as she selected the pitifully few keepsakes which were to make the long journey. Dorothea, eighteen, was to stay with her Aunt Melba, but Margaret, five years younger, would go with her parents.
"At last all arrangements were made and on a clear cool morning Father Dale and the excited Margaret sat waiting in the carriage. Dorothea ran through the empty house and found her Mother clutching a sprig of ivy at the bedroom window. For the first time Dorothea realized the significance of their parting. In a few weeks her Mother would be thousands of miles away.
"'I'm going, too,' Dorothea sobbed, 'I can't let you and little Margaret go to that dreadful place alone.'
"'We're going with your father, dear,' her mother reminded her quietly. 'No, dear, I think it is better that you stay. Aunt Melba is very fond of you and after a while you won't mind our being gone so much and you have promised to marry Phillip next fall. Sometimes,' she finished wistfully, 'when you aren't busy you can come back here and take some of this ivy out to John's grave, and I'll be happier knowing that someone who loved him is near.'
"Dorothea never forgot just how her mother looked standing there, no tears in her eyes, just a calm patient bravery. She held a little piece of ivy in her hand and looked out at the steeple of the Church where she had been married."
The aged Grandmother's voice faltered, and she wiped her glasses.
"VIRGINIA moistened her lips, "Did Dorothea stay in England?"
"Yes," resumed Grandmother. "She was young then and although she missed her family very much at first, like her childhood, they soon seemed to belong to a hazy past. Only when she received a letter did their existence seem vivid and real. The first letter came late in May.
"'The trip was very long and very hard,' her mother wrote, 'and now that we are here, even loving your father as I do and trying so hard to accept this new faith in which he so firmly believes, I cannot help but ask myself, For what have I given up my home, my friends, my daughter? Was it for this desolate waste, this briny lake? You cannot imagine how bleak and uninviting a struggling town looks. And too, frontier life is hard, so very hard for a woman. Yet these people seem contented and your father seems happy. I can scarcely understand it. Religion does strange things to people.
"'Don't fail to realize, my darling, the security and comfort Phillip offers you. I am sure he will do very well in his law office and it is ever a comforting thought to me, that you will not have these hardships to face.
"'I should not write like this. Your father would be displeased if he knew.'
"IN the second letter, four months later, discouragement had been replaced by cheerfulness and new hope. Their small farm was planted in Indian corn, wheat and rye. A branch irrigation ditch connected them with the canal which carried water from the Jordan river and their three-roomed house was nearly completed.
"'It is most amazing,' the letter continued, 'how much can be accomplished here in a short time. When a new house is to be built, an irrigation ditch dug or new ground broken all the neighbors come to help. Their willingness to make mutual sacrifices, their remarkable ability, their determination and above all the sincerity of their devotion to God makes the Latter-day Saints a most unusual people.'
"'Your mother must be getting the religious bug, too,' commented Aunt Melba dryly. 'But then she might as well make up her mind to like it, seeing she's there.'
"'It seems to me,' remarked Phillip after reading the letter, 'that all this religion is foolish. Live while you live is my motto and let death take care of itself. I believe religion is mainly for people who are afraid of death anyway.'
"'Dad wasn't religious because he was afraid of anything,' stoutly defended Dorothea, 'and you have said yourself that he was a very intelligent man. I wonder what it is about the Mormon religion that made him become so interested?' That was a question to which she found an answer almost a year later.
"Summer slipped into fall and along the quiet streets autumn leaves lay in bright red and golden drifts. Bonfire smoke hung in the hazy air, and Dorothea stitched busily away at the soft curtains and creamy linens that were to go into her hope chest.
"One windy afternoon she came hurrying into the house and excitedly unwrapped a lovely white satin wedding gown. The little bodice was high and tight with a cluster of pink rose-buds at the waist above the soft billows of the skirt. Aunt Melba was admiring her choice when the postman brought another letter from Utah.
"'Dearest Daughter: It is with a sad heart that I write you this.
"'On the second of July your father had a serious accident. While working on the roof of our house, he fell to the ground, injuring his spine and causing paralysis.
"'Elder Williamson is taking us all to San Francisco, where we can put your father in a hospital. We hope for the best but I think it will be wise for you to take the next boat for San Francisco.
"'May God comfort you and bring you safely to me. Your Loving Mother.'
"Three days later Phillip put Dorothea on a ship at Portsmouth.
"'You must convince your father of the necessity of coming back to England for medical treatment,' Phillip cautioned her again. 'This religious fanaticism has gone far enough!'
"'Oh, Phillip, don't talk about his religion now!'
"'Well, what else is responsible for his being in that uncivilized desert?'
"'I don't know—but surely he'll get well. He must!' Dorothea cried softly in the shelter of Phillip's arms and knew a ghastly fear of the future.
"During the voyage she was scarcely conscious of the rough sea, of the ship's motion" or of its other passengers. "All through the long days she was tortured by anxiety for her father. She forgot his abruptness, forgot that he was self-willed and overpositive in his opinions. Now she remembered only his kindness, his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE jolly good-humor, his tolerance and understanding of her childish escapades. In her misery she imagined that he might die before she arrived. "At last the ship crept into the land-locked bay and San Francisco manteled in fog stretched before her. On the dock Elder Williamson and a sun-tanned Margaret met her. After disengaging herself from Margaret's arms to acknowledge the introduction Dorothea asked in a tense voice, 'How is father?" "Perhaps the young Elder guessed something of the fear that lurked in her heart. Taking her hand in his strong clasp he answered, 'He's doing fine, and is very anxious to see you.' "A few minutes later the three of them reached a comfortable adobe house that belonged to 'Pap' and 'Auntie' Jonston, friends of Elder Williamson. They had insisted that Mr. Dale be moved to a room in their home when he left the crude hospital. "Ina large, comfortably furnished room Dorothea found her parents. "Oh father,' she sobbed, kneeling by his bed, 'It seems so long since I saw you.' "*We have missed you, too, my child, very, very much.'. "Are you really getting better?” Dorothea stroked the thin hair which was so much greyer now. "Sure I'm better. Why by next month I'm going back to Utah to start the spring plowing. We have a dandy farm. You'll have to come back with us and see it.' "That night, in one of Auntie Jonston's big four posters, Mrs. Dale said, 'What hurts the most is your father's cheerfulness, he is so positive that he is going back to Utah.' "What do the doctors say?' questioned Dorothea., "'They say,” came the muffled THE GREAT GIFT answer, 'that he will never go back. He is absolutely paralyzed and cannot live much longer.' " RANDMOTHER MORGAN paused again, this time she took the battered Beth from Gracie's arms and adjusted the new legs, then slowly continued. "But it seems that only God who gave life, takes it. They were all wrong. Father Dale did go back to Utah. To be sure he went flat on his back, but go he did, and Dorothea went with him. Not, however, before she wrote Phillip and explained as best she could her father's flat refusal to return to England and her family's need of help. ~ " "It's just for this spring and summer,' she assured him, 'next fall I'll come back and we will be married. By then Father will surely either decide to return to England too or at least be improved in health.' "On the trip back Dorothea learned much concerning the new land. She was surprised to know how the Latter-day Saints emphasized education. She laughed at Elder Williamson's description of the 'tent' where Mary Jane Dilworth had taught the twenty-third Psalm on that first day of school. Banter of Elder Williamson made the weary days seem short. ITH all they told her, Dorothea was unprepared for Salt Lake with its pearl-grey Temple from whose majestic spire the golden statue of the Angel Moroni stood, forever a symbol of the gospel he taught. "Tt seems unreal, it is so monumental in this vast, lonely valley,' Dorothea said. ""Tt is an example of what faith and determination can build,' Elder Williamson answered. ""I suppose this Temple means The lively 415 a great deal to the people of your church?' "Tt is the house of God,' was the reverent answer. 'Someday when you know more of our religion I shall tell you of its significance.' WHEN suddenly they were home. Home in the little town with its broad streets and many gardens where trees and flowers, transplanted from the canyons, now grew. Home among a kindly far-sighted people who knelt upon their hearthstones and asked God's blessings for their afflicted brother and looked after his immediate needs themselves. "Voluntary labor added a new room to the house for Dorothea and a porch along the south end, where on warm days Father Dale could enjoy the sunshine. The garden was planted and the spring plowing done. "Father Dale grew more firm in his belief that he would walk again. 'All things are possible to those who' have faith in God,' he often said. "Dorothea was never to forget the kindness of these people or the love and responsibility which they shared for each other. Nor was she ever to forget the evening she first stood by Elder Williamson, on the shore of the Great Salt Lake. "Under the evening sky, the lake's blue surface stretched fifty miles away to lap at the feet of the mountains, purple shadowed and crimson topped in the sunset. The heavy silence of the desert hung over them, broken only by the lonely wail of the seagulls as they wheeled above the vast dead sea. "Her companion spread his homespun coat upon the ground and they sat gazing in silence across the rippled mirror, mystic and unreal in the evening mist. "Dorothea leaned back against his shoulder, hardly conscious of his arrive 416 about her waist, until his voice broke her reverie. "Dorothea, I love you.' "Dorothea turned a startled gaze to the bronzed, earnest face of the man beside her. 'Why, Charles, you can't? "'But I do!' "Oh, I'm so sorry. I didn't realize you were beginning to care for me that way. I should have told you sooner—' "You mean that you really love this young lawyer in England?' "Why, I guess so—of course I do. I'm going to marry him!' " 'Well, that settles it. Lucky man, this Phillip.' "Charles, I am truly sorry. I shouldn't have seen you so often or been with you so much.' Dorothea said miserably. " Tet's be sensible about it. You love another man. I promise never again to speak to you of—of how I feel about you unless you ask me to. In the meantime our friendship is something too valuable to lose.' "Let's go on as though this had never happened until I go back to England,' she answered bravely, not quite knowing why it was so hard to keep back the tears. IN the days that followed Dorothea marveled more and more at the faith and trust these people placed in God. 'They seem so positive that their prayers will be answered,' she wrote to Phillip, 'It is a strange religion, the people who believe it are so conscious of it. They seem actually to live it every moment. Whether they plant a seed or christen a new baby, they always believe that God has a hand in it.' “’All this talk of religion makes me disgusted,' was Phillips answer, three months later. 'Now if your father would only come back here, no doubt some of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE our doctors could do something for him, but no! Because of that wild, all-demanding religion he is blinded to reason or wisdom. Somehow from your letters I feel as though that religion was a monster which would even try to take you away from me. Don't let it, Dorothea. Come back now, the hawthorns are in bloom again, the little house on Elm street which I bought for you is empty and silent. " 'Flow can you stay out there, groveling in the dirt on a bare farm, living in a mud-chinked hut by a dead lake with a bunch of religious fanatics? Don't wait until fall, come back now. I love you and want you.' ""How completely he misunderstands us all,' Dorothea thought. Through the open south door she could see Elder Williamson working in the garden plot. He straightened up and called to her, 'Come out and supervise the weeding.' "As Dorothea came out with the letter still in her hand, her father asked, 'What news from England this time?' "Phillip asks about your health and urges me to hurry back to England,' she told him. "From his couch on the porch Father Dale looked sharply at her, 'Still going back to England, are you? I was beginning to hope that you liked this place well enough to stay.' "Trying to transplant me, too, were you?' Dorothea laughed and then continued more seriously. 'I do like it here, very much. But there aren't many comforts or conveniences compared with England. And you people are so very dependent upon the land. A crop failure would mean famine!' ""You forget that God is always ready to help us. Someday you, too, will learn to depend on him,' her father predicted. ""Perhaps. But in the meantime I am inclined to be very materialistic. Then, too, I have promised THE GREAT GIFT to marry Phillip and I value the things he can give me.' "Elder Williamson quickly changed the subject back to gardening. And in the busy summer days that followed no questions were asked concerning Dorothea's plans for returning to England. While day after day she postponed writing to Phillip. HEN one golden summer morning, an astonishing bit of news traveled through the town. Neighbors called to each other from their work in the fields. Women scurried back and forth, and children stopped a moment in their tasks or at their play. Only two people seemed not at all surprised. Elder Williamson said reverently, 'God has answered our prayers.' " "Father Dale, walking uncertainly on his clumsy legs answered, 'Yes, God is very good to us!' "Many friends and _ neighbors came to his home that day, and Richard Dale explained again and again how he had awakened in the morning with the thought, 'I can walk.' His wife had been alarmed at this assertion, but a few hours later he had taken his first steps and later in the day walked to the window and back. "When night came, gathered at their fire-side, the Mother turned to Dorothea and said in an awed voice. 'I am ashamed now, for having resented leaving England. For the little that I gave up I have gained more than I am capable of understanding.' ""And God must love us, or he wouldn't have healed father,' added a sleepy Margaret. "Long after the family had retired Dorothea sat trying to finish a letter to Phillip. The good news would mean much to him, she realized, for now, there was no reason 417 for postponing her return to England. "She was interrupted by a step on the porch and then a soft knock. In answer to her, 'Come in,' Elder Williamson opened the door. "Seeing her he apologized, 'Oh, I am sorry, I saw the light so late and wondered if your father's exertions had been too much for him.' "*No, Father's fine. I was just writing a letter but the words seem rather illusive.' ""Perhaps a walk would help straighten out your thoughts—but perhaps we shouldn't. I forgot for the moment how late it is.' - "'T think we should. In fact I believe it's just what I need,' Dorothea replied. "A few minutes later they walked slowly down the shadowed streets where trees traced their lacy patterns and water rippled down irrigation ditches, catching the amber and gold reflections of a new moon. Somehow the beauty of the night, the heavy stillness of the sleeping town and the tall man beside her were hopelessly mixed with her thoughts of England. "At last they turned into the temple block and stood before the shadowed edifice, ethereal in the moonlight. ""You said once that you were going to tell me more about this Temple—you might tell me now,' Dorothea said. " "Tt is time you heard it all—now that you plan to leave us.' He paused and then continued, his slow certain voice pieced together all the fragments of Church History which she had heard. He told her the vivid story of Joseph Smith's vision and the first Temple at Nauvoo. Of the far-sighted leadership of Brigham Young and the self-sacrificing people whom he led. His people, noble 418 and courageous in their devotion to God. "As he talked she found herself believing. Suddenly she knew that never again could she question God in her heart. He had made her father walk again, his spirit was hovering over this silent desert town and was here in the voice of the man beside her. " "You have seen my religion as a monster that took everything and gave nothing,' he continued, 'but you are wrong, your eyes have been blinded because you do not understand. God asks little of us, just that we be reverent, and live together in righteousness and peace, and he gives us so very, very much. He gives us the promise of life eternal. Yet you will throw it all away because somewhere in England there is a man who can give you comfort and the security which money buys. He cannot give you more, in his blindness he accepts death as the end and through his prejudice he will never enter one of God's temples, to be sealed to you. He offers you a love than can span the short space of a human life and ignores a religion through which he could have given you the great gift, 'Eternal Love'.' "Suddenly Dorothea's thoughts RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE were no longer tangled. Suddenly she knew the ending for the half-finished letter. She knew why she had delayed writing for so long and in her heart there was a great peace and happiness of which she could scarcely speak. " "Would you care to offer me that great gift again?' she asked shyly. "*T would!' Holding her close he added, "And I promise to love you through all eternity.' "AND did she marry him?" questioned the impatient Grace. "Yes," said her Grandmother. "And they were very happy. Dorothea never regretted her choice. He only lived until he was forty-two and through all the lonely years that followed she knew that he was waiting for her in another world." "That's a pretty good story," said John loyally as he returned to his book, 'Buffalo Bill." Virginia stood up slowly, "Of course you were Dorothea. Mother told me something of the story and I knew Grandpa died early." She dropped the tiny watch into her Grandmother's lap and asked, "Will you wrap it up for me?" Her Grandmother looked up quickly. "I too, shall take the great gift," she explained. FRUITION By Josephine Spencer Oft God, along the broken road, Leads souls with rods of sharpest steel; But hides his manna in life's load, And spreads cool springs to cool, and heal. She Was a Mother By Theodore Martineau HE dreaded outlaw Pancho Villa was coming, and coming soon from his mountain stronghold to attack Cruces and consternation reigned in that doomed village. Only too well her people knew what to expect when that ruthless horde of bandits swooped down on a village hot with the lust for its fiery liquors, its precious loot and its lovely maidens. Knowing their inability to defend their homes the citizens hastily loaded their most precious belongings into wagons and ox carts, or packed them on the backs of their slow-moving but dependable burros, and headed for their stronghold a few miles distant in the gorges of the Sierras. Many times during the Revolutions of past years they had made this same move so that now even the beasts of burden seemed instinctively to sense their destination. Hurriedly, yet in good order, they made their way to' safety leaving a small company of expert riflemen to observe and harass their enemies should they show any disposition to pursue the fugitives. As was usually the case, Villa's attack on the village was made just before the dawn of day and great was the surprise of the marauders when they dashed up the silent streets clear to the Plaza without sighting a single person or receiving any reply to the volleys of bullets fired through the windows and doors of the houses as they passed. Villa and his men were furious as they began to realize the fact that their prey had flown, leaving behind them it was true, a much appreciated supply of corn, chile and frijoles but none of the really precious supply of arms, ammunition or pesos they had hoped to secure as a reward for their efforts. Hard, indeed, would be the lot of the traitor who had betrayed the plans of his chief, could they but lay hands upon him. And catch him they did that very day for the promise of a reward proved too much for the loyalty of a supposed friend and that night Julian Medina lay in fetters with the sentence of death upon him, to be carried out at daybreak. Knowing as he did the implacable hatred his chief had for those who betrayed his trust, the prisoner had no hope of any leniency, as the shadow of his impending doom shut out the sunlight of hope. But how could he have done otherwise than he did—he in whose veins ran the blood of old Castile, mingled with the no less proud strain of the Aztec Emperors. For not only was his gray-haired mamacita living there, but also it was the home of the maiden whom he some day hoped to make his bride. And what allegiance could he owe to that ruthless Chief who had forced him against his will into the ranks of his marauders, and who would not fail to inflict upon him death for desertion should he be caught out of the ranks without leave of absence. Surely now his doom was sealed but death would be sweetened by the knowledge that his own life was but paying the price of safety for his loved ones. 420 And so the hours dragged their weary way along and the last dawn his eyes would ever see was not far away. His dismal meditations were interrupted by the opening of the door and in came his old friend and confessor Padre Leon who had now come to prepare him to leave this world; the same good friend who had christened him and had always been his staunch amigo. Scarcely had the door closed, however, when the amazed Julian found himself in the arms and his face covered with kisses by the supposed Priest whose hood falling back disclosed the tear-stained face of his own little mamacita, who had thus, with the connivance of Padre Leon braved death in the hope of saving her son. They would change clothes and he would go out to liberty as a Priest, while she would remain as the prisoner to meet whatever fate might await her. Against this plan Julian set his face with fierce determination, but what chance had his will against that of a mother who was determined that, come what might to her, Julian must be set free. To make the necessary change of apparel was but the work of a moment and soon the supposed Padre had passed the sleepy guards who were still stupid from the effects of the liquor they had drunk the previous day. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE As the good Padre was used to coming and going at will through the camp, but little attention was paid to him and soon the fugitive was beyond the reach of his enemies. GREAT was the wrath of Don Pancho when he learned of his prisoner's escape and furious were his threats of vengeance upon the traitor who had given him his liberty. But when the culprit was ushered into his presence and he discovered who it was that had tricked him, his thirst for vengeance underwent a change. To his question as to why she had dared to thwart his plans, the little mother reminded him that he, himself had once had a mother who would willingly have dared as much for him, and after all it was not the part of a great man to make war upon women. Whether it was the memories of a long forgotten childhood, that softened his heart or just some lingering strain of chivalry towards womankind that wrought the change matters not. Senora Medina was furnished with a horse and an escort to return to her people who hailed her as one risen from the dead. On the Trails of the Old Kaibab By Elsie C. Carroll ITI ELEN stood before the mirror and brushed her hair. It was her hair, she knew, that had reminded Uncle Billy of her father. Her oval face, her fair skin, blue eyes and slightly tilted nose, were her heritage from the Aldrich line. But her hair, thick, reddish-brown and wavy, her large mouth, and determined, pointed chin—these and her restless impulses to be moving, doing, she knew were characteristics from her father. She was impatient to have another conversation with the old scout. Perhaps she would see him at breakfast. She walked past the row of cabins toward the dining room of the hotel, trying to think what gave her that sense of anticipation. When she saw a man galloping down the flat she remembered. Steve Heyden had promised to take her to see the canyon. - Uncle Billy wasn't in the dining room. "Has Mr. Crossly been to breakfast yet?" she asked the waitress who came for her order. The girl was puzzled. "You don't mean Uncle Billy, do you? He doesn't stay here at the hotel. He has a cabin down by the spring.. But I saw him outside a little while ago talking with Steve Heyden. Shall I see if he is still there?" "No, thanks. I’ll look him up when I am through." She found him sitting on a log with Mr. Hawley, whittling industriously. "You soon got tired of our country dance last night," Hawley said looking at her with the same intimate expression that had repelled her at the time of their introduction. "I thought you were coming back to dance with me after you'd gone the hand-shaking round with Russell. Wood bores me with his get-acquainted-with-our-big-happy - family stuff." "I didn't find it boring. I was interested and wanted to meet them all,' Helen told him. "Most folks like other folks,'' observed Uncle Billy, 'and this is a great place to find all kinds." "Why didn't you stay last night and meet Dr. Grosbeck?" Hawley asked. "I heard him enquiring of Russell about you. I believe he said you were friends." He was plainly curious. What might Fred have told them? At least he couldn't have revealed the facts about her trouble with George, for he did not know them. "T was coming back to answer some of your questions after I'd found out how bad young Rockwood was hurt," Uncle Billy told her. ° "How is he?" Helen was eager to change the conversation. Nothing serious. It hurt his plane more'n it did him, and he seems to feel worse about that than if he'd smashed hisself up. You'll have to take a ride with the boy before you go home. They's nothing like seein' the canyon from the bird's point of view." Hawley was called inside to the telephone. - "Won't you tell me some more about the old West?" Helen asked. "Something you said about the man 422 you called Huntsman made me want to hear his story." Uncle Billy went on whittling. "It's a sad story and it comes close to me. Sam and me was pals and I was interested in his future. When it was cut off the way it was, well, naturally I don't like to think about it. There was rumors about his death, too, that ain't pleasant. Of course I didn't take no stock in 'em, but since they affected another friend, naturally I try not to think about it." What could he mean? Wasn't her father's death accidental as it had been reported to her and Aunt Nettie? "I sometimes think,' Uncle Billy continued, 'that wantin' not to think about it, makes it stick all the tighter in my mind. Now maybe if I'd tell you, a stranger, Sam's story, I could quit thinkin' about parts of it that bother me." He whittled for a moment in silence. "I recollect the first time I ever saw Sam. It was at the Bar V ranch just before the round-up the year my dad brought me to ask old Vaughn for a job. At that time the Bar V was right here in Pleasant Valley. The old chuck shack and bunk houses stood down by the springs where I have my cabin now, and the corrals was over there where them rodeo corrals is now. I'd been on the mountain with dad off and on as long as I could remember, and had rode some in regular round-ups; but not as a paid hand. I was such a little runt that everybody took me for a kid long after I'd growed as big as God meant me to. When dad asked Vaughn to give me a job, he reached out and tweaked my ear and said he'd just took on two youngsters from Texas that mornin' that filled up his quota. 'I guess we can take RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Billy on though, for a mascot,' he said. "A round-up was a real adventure in them days, and to be on Vaughn's pay roll made me feel ten inches taller." "What is a round-up?" Helen asked. "Once every year the cattle men round in their stock from all over the range, cut out what they want to sell, and brand and mark the calves, and cut out the cattle that belongs to other owners. Of course that's just a rough definition. Besides that it's long days of hard dangerous ridin' and testin' your nerve. It means gettin' acquainted with the fellers you work with, learnin' which of 'em has guts and which is yaller. It means learnin' to understand and love your horses and dogs. And part of it's sittin' around the campfire at night after your full of grub, laughin' over things that made your hair stand up when they happened, and guyin' each other, and tryin' to make your yarn sound bigger than the other feller's; and singin' songs —lots of times makin' 'em up as you go along. Then stretchin' out on your blankets and lookin' up at the stars and listenin' to the howls of the coyotes out in the timber, and to the nearer sounds of your hobbled horses, and the close-up whisperin' of the pines—till you float off to sleep." The old man's face took on a kind of glow. "Why, you're a poet!" Helen cried. He chuckled. "I'd have to be to make you understand what a roundup used to mean in the old days. But as I was sayin', it was that mornin' I got my first job that I met Sam Huntsman. Him and the other Texas cowboy was in the chuck house when dad and me went ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB in for breakfast. I liked his red hair and his big friendly smile and the way he took to me right off. I knowed he thought I was a lot younger'n him, for he started treatin' me like a kid brother, when as a matter of fact, I was three or four years older'n him. But I was used to that. The other cow-puncher was Tough Heyden, Steve's dad. Well, it wasn't no time till the whole Bar V outfit had to acknowledge them Texas hombres as aces when it come to range-ridin'. There was a little jealousy at first, but one thing about cow-punchin' is it develops fair shootin', and soon all the old hands, even to the old buckaroos like my dad, was takin' their hats off to them two kids, and not thinkin' it was anything but a square deal when old Vaughn made 'em foremen, and give 'em a chance to work into the cattle game fer theirselves. "They was like David and Jonathan, them two. After they'd been workin' for Vaughn about five years they each had a nice little bunch of cattle comin' for pay. Then they started a outfit of their own, callin' it the Double H Cattle Company." The story was beginning to give significance to words and phrases Helen had held vaguely in her memory since childhood. "Tt was a little before this time," Uncle Billy continued, "that Sally Vaughn come into the story. She was a niece of old Vaughn's—as purty a little fixin' as anybody ever saw. As she changed from a little girl to a young lady, different ones of the boys tried to shine up to her. I even had my turn when I couldn't sleep for thinking about her black curls and soft little hands. But after Sam and Tough come, Sally didn't have eyes for none of us. "At first they didn't either of 'em pay much attention to her, only to 423 tease her. But just a little while fore they pulled out for theirselves, Sam used to stick around the chuck house after supper and play the banjo and him and Sally'd sing together. I don't think he was ever serious about her, but Sally sure fell for him. And about the same time, Tough fell for her. It was a crazy triangle, and the rest of us used to watch and wonder how it was goin' to turn out. "Tt finally got to worryin' old Vaughn. We all thought it was to ease things up that made him think of offerin' the boys the House Rock range. He was sure that someone was goin' to git hurt and he wanted to make it easier if he could. "Well, after they started their own outfit, Sam and Tough was so busy they didn't git over to Bar V very often. But that didn't keep Sally from goin' to their camp. She'd ride over and have supper ready for em when they'd come in from work. Nearly always both boys would ride back with her. It was easy to guess how that would happen. Tough would offer to bring her and she'd insist on Sam comin' too. "For nearly two summers things went like that. Then Sam went east to take the Double H steers back to the contractors in Chicago." Helen knew what was coming now. She wondered how different Uncle Billy's version would be from the one she knew.. "We was all knocked off the Christmas tree when Sam didn't come back. It was Vaughn hisself who told us what happened. "When they was in Chicago, the buyer who had been out here to contract the cattle, invited all the boys to his home one night to a party, and if Sam didn't fall for a friend of the buyer's daughter who was one of the guests, and well—we couldn't a believed it if Vaughn hadn't seen it all 424 —Sam married the girl the very next week and stayed on there in Chicago, "We hadn't realized before how much Sally cared. She tried not to show it, but it was just as plain as the nose on your face what was eatin' her. Tough tried his best to make her forgit, and about Christmas time they was married." "Then Sally was this Steve Heyden's mother?" Helen asked. "Yes. She didn't come out to the mountain the next summer because she was expectin' Steve. We kinda guessed that she wasn't happy. When we'd run onto her in town, we couldn't help feelin' that she was still thinkin' about Sam. It was purty certain that Tough knew it too. He wasn't his old self. When we'd ask about Sam he'd always say that he was fine and they was still pardners and that sometime Sam was comin' back. Sam had got a job in a packin' house back there. But you'd never a thought they'd been pals workin' and sleepin' and eatin' together most of their lives." Uncle Billy whittled again in silence. It was hard for Helen to realize that she was listening to her own father's story. He had always seemed like a dream. Though her mother had died the day of Helen's birth, (she used to wonder if they had passed each other somewhere up in the clouds), Aunt Nettie had told her so many things about her, that she felt she had known her mother. With her father, there had been only his brief visits during the first ten years of her life; then his. Return west; and—that short letter about his death. She had wondered so many things about him. "We heard about two years after Sam had left that his wife had died, and we thought he'd come back, but he didn't. Tough and Sally had their troubles too. The baby was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sickly the first few years. Things wasn't so good in the cattle business about that time either. Sally kept needin' money for doctor bills. "Tt was about ten years before Sam come back, and about as soon as he got here we heard that him and Tough was goin' to break up. "Sam had decided to sell his share of the ranch and move his part of the cattle down to Texas. We all felt it had somethin' to do with Sally. Him and Tough just couldn't git back on their old footin' again. They acted friendly enough on the outside. But there was something layin' there between 'em like a black shadow. It was tough on all three of 'em. "Well, they got the cattle divided and Sam started his share out with two cow hands. He was goin' to finish up his business with Tough and overtake the cattle in a day or two. The next day him and Tough started over to Ryan to finish the deal. Sally and little Steve who was ten or eleven years old then, had come out the night before. I'll never forget how queer the atmosphere about the whole ranch was after Sally came. You couldn't help feelin' that something was goin' to hap- " pen. ELLO there. Are you ready for Point Sublime, or has Uncle Billy got you hypnotized with one of his yarns?" Helen had been so engrossed in Crossley's story that she hadn't seen Steve approaching, riding one horse and leading another, With difficulty she pulled herself from the web of the past. She was impatient to hear the rest of Uncle Billy's story, but she was*glad Steve had not forgotten. "You'll tell me the rest soon, won't you?" she begged, but she knew Crossly was relieved at the interruption. ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB "Excuse me a moment while I get ready, Mr. Heyden." She hurried to her cabin. How strange that her life should now be touching the lives of her father's old friend and the son of his pal. What was that unpleasant rumor about his death? It all seemed far away and unreal. When she returned Steve looked up approvingly. "Your color scheme matches Maje's," he laughed, taking in the details of her yellow-brown riding habit and the orange band about her hair. He helped her into the saddle and adjusted the stirrups. A waitress came from the hotel with a box. "I asked Wood to have us a lunch fixed up," he explained, putting the box into a saddle bag and springing upon his horse. Helen waved goodbye to Uncle Billy who still leaned against the tree whittling. "Are we the only ones going?" 'she asked. "I thought perhaps you took groups of tourists." He looked at her, a slow flush creeping up to his cheeks. So she'd thought he was a paid guide. He grinned. "Sometimes I take a bunch, but today you seem to be my only customer. You don't mind,, do you?" "Oh, no. You said last night that you were going to present me to the Grand Canyon. I imagine he'll re- 425 ceive me more graciously if I'm his only votary." As they rode around the hotel toward the highway, a girl on a brown pony came galloping up from the flat. Helen recognized Bernice Hawley and spoke to her. She recalled Miss Fitzgerald's statement that Bernice was infatuated with young Heyden. ° "Where have you been so early?" Steve asked the girl. "Over to the airplane. I went to see how badly Pete Rockwood was hurt and if his plane was smashed up." "How is he?" "He only has a little gash in his head and the plane has a few broken ribs. I thought from all the fuss last night it was a smash-up." "You're not disappointed, you?" Steve laughed. "Well, I'd like something to happen. There's nothing to do around here." Steve turned his horse back into the road. "Why didn't you ask her to come with us?" asked Helen. "She's a pest," he answered and pretended not to hear Bernice calling, "Are you going to Point Sublime?" Helen wondered what the girl would think of her. (To be continued) are GRATITUDE By Claire S. Boyer I'm glad for the burden and pain of the night Glad for the weight and wear, Knowing the climax will bring me Peace, Knowing the dawn is there. I pity the calm. And easy folk Whose voyages are serene Who never can know from the fate of woe How much a dawn can mean, Understanding Our Children By Virginia B. Jacobsen OM came rushing home from his grocery store one afternoon with his face swollen almost beyond recognition. His eyes were practically shut, his tongue an inch thick, and his hands and wrists a mass of huge welts. Dr. A. Was called immediately, and pronounced it a case of severe hives. "What could have caused it so suddenly, Doctor?' asked Tom's wife. "He went back to work perfectly well and in fifteen minutes he was home here like this." "Tell me exactly what you did after you returned to the store," suggested the doctor. Tom's swollen tongue, mouth and throat made talking very difficult, but he tried to explain. "I picked up a few bunches of turnips and carried them to the vegetable stand. My wrists began to itch and I rubbed them. Then I got a quarter's worth of flour for a customer. I began to sneeze while I was sacking the flour, (flour always makes me sneeze) then I felt my eyes begin to smart. I rubbed them and the first thing I knew I had begun to swell all up like this." "This is what we call a case of Allergy,' said the doctor. "In other words, Tom, you are highly sensitive to certain substances. It wasn't the fault of the flour or turnips that this happened. It is the fault of your own body which cannot tolerate certain foods and substances. The best thing for you to do is to go to Dr. B. He is a specialist in Allergy. We doctors cannot possibly do everything, so while I understand allergy, I am not equipped to make the necessary tests to determine exactly which things you are sensitive to. Dr. B. Has all the equipment, and he thoroughly understands all that is known at the present time about allergy." "But, Doctor, we have never heard of this thing called allergy before. Is it something very new?" asked Mrs. Tom. "The evidences of allergy are not new, but the study of it is. You have heard all your life about eczema, urticaria, hives, hay fever, asthma, migraine headache, continuous colds, sinusitis, sudden swellings in certain parts of the body, and severe stomach aches which are usually attended with formation of flatulence or gas. These have all come to be known as evidences of allergy. They are all usually caused by some food which the body cannot handle, or by some external substance which affects the sensitive individual. "In other words, Tom, you are evidently extremely sensitive to certain substances. You are what we call allergic. The things which cause your distress we call allergens, and your distress we term allergy." "Well, all I can say is that it is very distressing," said Tom. "Will this swelling last long and is this condition dangerous?" = * "Hives, or urticaria, is usually not dangerous or very serious, but a severe attack or a prolonged recurrence of them is extremely annoying and nerve-racking. The condition becomes dangerous when the giant type of hives develops in the throat. For it may cause suffocation. You are beginning to respond to the simple treatment I have given you, and UNDERSTANDING OUR CHILDREN you may be completely recovered inside of a few hours. There is one point on which I wish to warn you. This thing called allergy has nothing to do with all these so called food combination faddists. Don't let anyone try to tell you that it is the combination of foods which you are eating which is causing your trouble. Go to Dr. B. Who is a specialist in allergy and let him determine by positive tests with each food and other substances exactly what your own body can and cannot handle. Then and only then will you be free from a repetition of the hives." Tom followed the advice of Dr. A. He went to Dr. B. Who made the simple skin tests which proved that he was highly sensitive to many of the foods which he ate and handled in his store. Dr. B.'s, advice to him was to leave these foods entirely-alone. He has followed directions and has never had a recurrence of the hives. DOUBILESS you are wondering what this has to do with understanding your children. There are few mothers who do not encounter allergy in one form or another during the lifetime of their children. If more mothers understood and realized that eczema, hives, rashes of different sorts, repeated billious spells, sick headaches, hay fever, sinus, continuous colds and a few other conditions are very frequently the result of some one food or foods which the child cannot handle, there would be far less suffering and worry. Many mothers spend countless dollars and many hours of worry when simple tests by a specialist in allergy could determine the cause of the distress, and the elimination of the offending foods might easily and quickly correct the condition. One little fellow of three persistently 427 vomited after almost every meal. It was found that he could not tolerate butter. This was purely an allergic condition which brought on severe vomiting. When the butter was eliminated from his diet, the child retained his food. Another child on record frequently had spells of unconsciousness. He had never been strong, and had eczema. A competent physician was consulted and it was found, after exhaustive tests, that he was sensitive to ten or twelve foods. He could not handle egg, cow's milk, wheat, several fruits and five or six vegetables. His diet became a very limited affair, but cleared up his serious condition. A peculiar thing about this particular case was that the next child in this family also was highly allergic and was unable to eat practically the same foods as her brother. Friends and relatives blamed the mother in various ways. It was a strange thing, they said, that two children in the same family could not handle cow's milk and had to be fed on goat's milk. But the anxious mother turned a deaf ear to all criticism and persisted in following the advice of her specialist. Asa result, her children gradually built up a resistance to the offending foods until they were able to eat almost anything. It was a terrific struggle for the mother but she came out victorious. HIS illustrates the point that allergy tends to run in families. The allergy itself is not hereditary, but certainly the tendency toward being allergic is inherited. In the thousands of cases which have been brought to the testing laboratories in the past ten years, it has been conclusively found that where one parent is allergic about sixty percent of the children of that union will show some evidence of allergy. On the 428 other hand, where both parents are allergic, it has been found that more than eighty percent of the offspring will be allergic sufferers. This gives ample reason for the statement made by workers in this field that two allergic individuals should not marry. The strange thing about allergy is that where one parent may suffer with migraine headache and the other with hay-fever or any other allergic evidence, the children may be afflicted with still another form of allergy such as eczema. The inheritance simply seems to be a matter of the inability of the individual RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE body to handle 'certain foods. The discomfort or distress brought about by this sensitivity to certain substances may be evidenced in any of the allergic conditions. We are fortunate to live in a period of history when research along this line is making life more comfortable both for children and their troubled parents. It is seldom necessary, today, for children to continue to suffer with eczema, hives, persistent colds, billious headaches, hayfever, asthma, or skin eruptions as they have done in ages not so far past. No Country is Settled Until the Women and Children Come By Elizabeth Cannon Porter covered first, the east coast of the United States would never have been settled," remarked a California real estate man. As a matter of fact the west coast was visited first. Eighty years before the Mayflower docked at Plymouth Rock, Cabrillo sailed into the Harbor of the Sun and found what the Indians called "The land of bright colors." He was sent by Cortez who in 1519 with sixteen horses, a dozen pieces of artillery and the aid of an Indian woman, had conquered the Aztec empire. He set up a Spanish printing press in Mexico city nearly a century before English gentlefolk first located in Virginia. But it wasn't until Gaston de Portola, discoverer of the Golden Gate, first came to San Francisco, that California was really settled. He was the first far west explorer to bring women and children with him. And no country is really settled until the women come! MY NEIGHBOR By Agnes Just Reid Across the fields, lives my neighbor, I seldom see her but I rejoice that she is there. Out toward the sunrise, I see the smoke from her chimney And she sees mine silhouetted against the evening sky. I know when the apple trees bloom in her orchard; I know when the grain in the lowlands is ready for the reaper; She too knows these same things about me. T know that when trouble comes to me, she will be the first to share it. She is my strength! She points the way to God! She is my neighbor. Nauvoo Exodus By Bernice Phillips Gibbs PROLOGUE A people driven forth, A prophet slain, No refuge but bare earth, Mid sleet and rain; Numbed, shivering and wet, They gather here— No refuge but the earth, - No other bier. Ah, homes were happy and bright and warm, Where mothers sang lullabys sweet, And children played happily, fearing no harm i Or rushed forth their playmates to greet. Nauvoo, the beautiful, peaceful and calm, A refuge built here by a stream, Where all might worship their God as they please, And all might share in the dream Of a perfect life, a brotherhood of Man, A faith that points the way as naught else can. But hark! A muttering seems to chill the air, Like storms that passed before in recent days; A premonition there, The hand of stark fear o'er their hearts it lays. But faith shines like a star in human hearts, How ever dark the clouds we know tis there, Waiting to shine again when mists will part, To greet the warming sun so bright and fair. Casting shadows How ever loud the thunder, dense the rain, The star of faith still brings forth hope again. Once more all seems to be serene. "Ah, we have worked so hard to build This place, dear Lord; to plant and keep it green, And industry has kept our days all filled With love and faith and praise to Thee. Suffer us yet to stay a little while, Safe from our enemies; must we not flee To other distant climes? Not anger rile Against Thy people. Find peace, And cause the anger of our enemies to cease." Lord let not anger rile. Against Thy people. Let us here find peace. And cause anger of our enemies to cease. But storm clouds gather, dark and dim, And anger of their enemies pours forth. Their only fault their faith, their only sin, Their loyalty to leaders of that faith. None dare defend the Mormons now! "Go, cast them from our midst!" they cry, "Such evil faith far from us we must throw. These Mormons must go hence! Joe Smith must die!" They clasped their loved ones close and shook with fear, While angry mobs collected far and near. To save his people Joseph gave his life 430 Into their hands. Carthage jail They took him, and mid insults rife His calmness could not shake nor courage quail. Mob spirit ruled supreme and conquering. All mercy, led his vengeful murderers To spill his blood and Hyrum's, o'er the floor, From which it ne'er can be erased, eternal stain! He freely gave his life, unselfishly; His noble act will live eternally! "Arise and flee! There is no mercy here! The fiends of Hell have loosed their bloody strife, Up and away! It matters not to where. Not satisfied with our dear Prophet's life They wreak their vengeance on the helpless, No pity for the weak—death to the strong Who dare defend their homes. Fearless Are traitors, and to outcasts must belong!" And sadly leaving their fair homes forever, They haste to cross the Mississippi river. Some few have wagons and in these A few of their possessions have been cast While others carry bundles on their backs And shield their children from the wintry blast. A hasty camp is made some miles away At Sugar creek, and. Mid the sleet and rain, The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Before the breaking of another day Nine little ones are born in fear and pain. But God is ever watching o'er his sheep And every one of these He safe will keep! And thus amid the winter's cold and snow Began the long trek to the savage west. The sturdy men already hardships know, But delicate women, babies at their breast, wt Must face this frontier country ill prepared, Must weep into each new-made grave, And turn their faces from the clods that cover The golden curls, the still, pale hands—and leave,: Driven by human fiends into the wilderness, What more to fear from savages than this? LENVOI I thank Thee, God, I came from such as these! Fruits of their vision borne on every breeze, Their courage and their faith my heritage. Their eyes were greeted by but dust and sage, But, this the place, supreme in faith they chose To make the desert blossom as the rose. Honored throughout the ages be their name— I thank Thee, God, from such as these I came! The Contributions of Women and Women's Organizations to the Priesthood Quorums By Janet M. Thompson author in writing of the life of a Pioneer woman, prefaced her book with this sentiment—''Be- - cause the road was steep and long and through a dark and dreary land, God placed upon her lips a song and put a lantern in her hand." We could well apply this same thought to our early Latter-day Saint women —for their songs of faith, courage, loyalty and perseverance have echoed and re-echoed through the years. Their lanterns which may have burned dimly at first have become brighter and brighter until rays of wisdom, knowledge and encouragement have lighted the paths of many. It has been said, there is nothing that will let light into the soul like personal influence and there is nothing that will build faith, hope, love and charity like the power of a good example.. Then is it not true, the greatest contribution our women have made for the advancement of the Priesthood has come through their influence and their example? The sculptor who designed the beautiful monument which now stands on the capitol grounds, visualizes for us the characteristic power and faith of our women. In his carving of the enlistment, who has the greater responsibility to face— the mother with one child at her feet and a babe in her arms—or the father about to leave with the Mormon Battalion? The mother's head is not bowed down, but she like the great stone face above her, is looking up, with clear eyes and courageous spirit —a pillar of strength to mankind. Santor i years ago a certain In the building of communities, of social life, of the Priesthood in the home and in the church, are we not all of the opinion that women have been as conspicuous in the building as the men? TODAY, we find our women just - as concerned in the teaching of the fundamentals of the gospel as formerly. They realize that all of their work is predicated on the beginning of the church through the Priesthood and, that in their desire to magnify the office of the Priesthood, they can be a power for good in the home—an influence in spiritual development and an example in character building. Cooperation, faith, strength in leadership, unselfishness, devotion, encouragement, sympathy and understanding are all pre-requisites for successful character building. One writer tells us the best school of discipline is home—that family life is God's own method of training the young and that homes are very much what women make them. They reform others unconsciously when they walk uprightly. In this rapidly changing world, it would seem, a@ good example is the best and greatest gift one can give to others. We can preach a better sermon with our lives than with our lips. Channing says, "Precept is instruction written on the sand, the tide flows over it and the record is gone—example is graven on the rock and the lesson is not soon lost." ALL of our women's organizations are constructive forces in the 432 advancement of the Priesthood. They aim for greater spiritual uplift and broader vision in educational fields. Young boys and girls and women are taught the truths of the gospel—to honor and sustain the Priesthood, which is the power and authority by which our church is governed and maintained. True, is it not, the Priesthood could not carry on the auxiliary organizations without the help of the women? It might interest you to know the comments three of our prominent church men made recently regarding the contribution women make towards the advancement of the Priesthood. An apostle said, "The influence of a young girl is far-reaching— I know the effect girls have upon boys. I hope they will always maintain dignity and will frown upon companions if they stoop to do or RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE say something unbecoming the Priesthood." A Stake President made this comment—"Women have a little better appreciation of the finer things of life—they are the custodians of the spiritual forces of the world—a man can't get anywhere if his wife won't help. It is the silent encouragement that counts." One of our Bishops made this remark—"The most crying need right. Now is to follow the injunction of the scriptures—to have the women provoke their husbands to good work. I was blessed with a good wife and she always saw to it that I was diligent in my duties." Just as long as our women have the abiding influence of the Priesthood to guide and direct them, their songs will not be hushed, neither will their lights be dimmed. The Unprepared Teacher By Merling D. Clyde SCENE 1 (The curtain rises. A woman busily engaged. Telephone rings.) Teacher. "Oh, can't you go, Sister Cummings? I'm so sorry. Yes, if there's no one to accompany me, I can go alone. I don't know much about the topic. I've looked it over a bit; but I'll just hurry around so we can report it visited. I do hope you will be better soon. What? Oh, thank you. Goodbye." Music. SCENE 2' (A home. A woman seated with her ankle bandaged and resting on a chair calls a cheery "Come in" to a knock at the door. Teacher enters, approaches and takes her hand. Exchange pleasantries.) Mrs. K. "Oh, I was just hoping you would come this afternoon. One always looks for the Relief Society teachers. It is such a lovely topic this month, isn't it? Where is sister Cummings?" T. "She was too ill to come." Mrs. K. "I'm so sorry." T. "Yes, isn't it too bad? You know, this is the first time she has missed teaching in twelve years. It was impossible for her to get out, and that hurt worse than being sick, I do believe. How is the hurt ankle?" Mrs. K. "Oh, very much better, thank you; but I am unable to walk yet, and will have to miss meeting Tuesday. Still I am blessed, for I have my Magazine here and have been reading the lesson for next time. I've thought so much about this topic, too: Blessed are they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Isn't it a comforting thought? You know, THE UNPREPARED TEACHER each day some one comes to my door with a blessing." T. (looking a little abashed and scanning the magazine) "I'm afraid I'm to receive a lesson; for I'll have to admit that I have not studied the topic, and I had company the day I should have gone to meeting to hear it given." Mrs. K. "But I am sure you are hungering and thirsting after righteousness, dear sister, or you would not be taking time to visit your district this busy month." T. "Perhaps it is from a sense of duty." Mrs. K. "Not exactly. Duty does exact its portion; but love of the Gospel and thirst for satisfaction of the soul compel one to carry on. And I've failed yet to find one who has not been blessed by doing so." T. "I've had that thought, too; but I get neglectful and let other things interfere." Mrs. K. "We all do. And I've had time to realize, since I've had to sit still, how much we do let trifles interfere with our real purpose in life. I've found out a lot of things about myself. I have resolved to quit gossiping over the back fence and the telephone and I'll have more time for these beautiful lessons." T. "Perhaps I should get a sprained ankle or something so I'll take time to study." (both laugh) Mrs. K. "That would be awful to have to meet with some misfortune in order to learn our Gospel." T. (rises to leave) "I've enjoyed visiting with you; but I really must be going." Mrs. K. "Will you please hand me my purse. I have a bit of money to donate. (She receives the purse, extracts some change, and hands to the teacher, who writes in her book.) T. "Thank you, Sister King. I do 433 hope the sprained ankle will be better soon. Goodbye." Mrs. K. "Goodbye—come again soon." (Exit. Curtain.) (Scene change. Same teacher walking along—may be in front of curtain—reading. Knocks at a door.) "This is a new member of our Church. She always studies the lessons and is so curious about the methods of the Gospel. If she asks me about the other meetings I'll hardly know what to say. (knocks again) But I'm going to start going regularly. There is so much to learn that is beautiful and good. (knocks, turns away) I guess she isn't home." (Reads as she walks along "Blessed are they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness for they shall be filled." Raises eyes reverently, "Father I thank Thee for this privilege. Help me to be of service." Exit. Music. "Call Me" is a lovely number.) SCENE 3 (Same teacher knocks at an open door in plain view of a young woman seated at a table, head on arms, sobbing. She raises head at knock, rises, wipes tears from eyes and comes graciously forward, and extends hand.) Y. W. "How do you do? Won't you come in? You must be an answer to my prayer. Be seated. It is cooler over here." T. "Thank you, dear. Relief Society teacher. My companion was unable to come. You have just moved here lately, have you not?" Y. W. "Yes, and I know no one. It is so nice of you to call. Won't you tell me about Relief Society? I have always thought it was for only the older people." T. "So many think that. I used to myself. But it is for everyone, and especially the young mothers. I am your 434 We have each Tuesday set apart for different subjects. The teacher topics are given to us at a special meeting during the month. The block or district teachers (that is what I'm supposed to do today) bring the topics into your home for discussion: They are very beautiful and timely for our needs. Then the first Tuesday we study Theology. Our lessons are from the Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants. We also have testimony bearing on that day. These meetings are so inspiring and encouraging. The second Tuesday is work and business day. We make quilts and learn new wrinkles in homemaking. | Sometimes we have a surprise social and special program. The third week is Literary lesson, the study of the classics in poetry, short story, novel, drama." Y. W. (who has been an ardent listener) "It sounds so interesting, almost like a college course." T. "Yes, it is. Then the fourth and last week is our social service lesson and takes up child training, personality development, sociology. Tt is very beneficial to the young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mothers. All." Y. W. "Oh, I'm sure I would. And thank you so much for telling me about them. I would like to go tomorrow, but what about my little ones?" T. "Bring them along. We have a woman to care for them, if you wish. I will call for you." (rises to go) "What beautiful lamps and art work. Did you make them?" Y. W. "Yes. I'm glad you like them. I'll show you how, if you do not know." T. "How sweet of you. But, better still, come and help us on our work and business day. Would you care to?" Y. W. "Yes. J know now you were sent in answer to my prayer. Keeping busy will help to ease the loneliness. My husband died three months ago." T. "Oh, I'm so sorry. I hope we can lighten your loss. (takes her hand) God bless you, dear. Watch for me. I'm coming over often. You've been an answer to my prayers, too, dear. Goodbye." (Curtain) You would enjoy them Writing and Pasting By Yvonne Adamson HAVE two besetting sins. Be- ] cause of them, temptation assails me as I look at a clean white sheet of paper, and as IJ try to pass a fifteen cent store. I usually give way to the insidious desire that goads me on. In spite of, a slightly guilty conscience I enter the store and sneak down to the stationery counter. With the air of an explorer I glide past the envelopes and correspondence paper to the realm of notebooks and scrapbooks. Carefully, so as not to attract a salesgirl to me, I look them over. Suddenly, a thrill possesses me. A pasteless scrapbook! A Scribble-in Book. Oh, and a dark green colored book for recipes! I am doomed, for a salesgirl says, ""May I serve you?" I buy all three of them, as I excuse myself with: "We don't really need that salad dressing. I can make some." HEN I unwrap them at home, my husband groans, 'More scrapbooks! Why you haven't filled up the ones you've already started." I overcome that criticism by demonstrating to him the pasteless scrap- WRITING AND PASTING book. '"Where's something to paste in it?" he asks, and he is so absorbed in those pages and pages of recipes that wouldn't fit in my other recipe books that he doesn't notice the new notebook I am labeling, "Doorstep Repartee." DOORSTEP repartee is the term used to refer to that clever remark you would have made, had you only thought of it before you reached your own doorstep. It really is a shame to waste such witty sayings, so I write them down, in the hope that maybe sometime I'll get a chance to say them to someone. Later, I may combine this book with "Conversation Scrapbook." It contains scraps of brilliant conversation that I hear, picturesque expressions, suggestions and instructions for improving conversation. I AM going to purchase all of the M. 1. A. Scrapbooks: "The Honey Comb," "My Story," "Treasures of Truth" and "Book of Remembrance." "The Honey Comb" has been introduced since I was a Bee-Hive Girl, and I have been kept busy teaching Bee-Hive Girls ever since, so I missed those other delightful experiences. I should like to buy each class manual. Too, every year; they'd make an inspirational library. I LIKE my "Success Book'' best of all. It tells how I was detained in the fourth grade because I couldn't write a simple composition. Then it tells how I learned to write and now it is my most interesting pastime. It tells how I changed my unreadable penmanship overnight when I was a sophomore in high school. It describes my miserable failure at public speaking, and the way it kept haunting me so I dared not try again. Then I overcame my fear of that incident and made a good speech. 435 Which brings me to my latest, "Speech Scrapbook." It is a collection of controlling ideas for speeches. Besides ideas for 45 talks, I have jotted down all I remember from reading and observing in reference to preparing and giving a speech. It also includes a collection of mottoes of people I know, and each motto could form the nucleus of a speech. These are a few of them: "If you can't win, make the one ahead break the record." "Rise above it." "Don't be a Scrub!" "I you think you can, you can." "I want friends, friends, and more friends." As part of this collection I have listed all of the M. I. A. Slogans. OF course I have a Snapshot Album. Other Scrap Books have supplements in the form of booklets on the same subjects. For instance, along with my Recipe Scrap Books, come my High School Cooking Book, and Free Recipe Booklets offered by advertisers of Food Products. I have a "Menu Book." In this I plan my own meals as well as paste menus I clip from various sources. "My Schedules and Plans Scrap Book" contains schedules for work suggested in different magazines. I have also worked out several schedules of my own. When I think of a plan I record it here; sometimes I am appalled at the contrast between a plan and the results. Sometimes I am thrilled at the overwhelming success that comes through planning. GAMES and Parties" is a Scrap Book in which I describe successful parties and games. I have a number of booklets to supplement this Scrap Book. ONE would think my hobby is Scrap Books, but pasting and writing are mere elements of my real 436 hobby: "Personality Building." My "Personality Scrap Book" has a collection of personality tests, and clippings and thoughts on personality. To accompany these are a number of booklets and envelopes containing articles on beauty, charm and personality. Mest of my Scrap Books are a means to develop my own RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE personality. But I have one that I keep to help me understand the personalities of others. In it I describe the personality of almost every one I meet. I can feel my skill in analyzing people grow through this method. A companion book to it is a list of the hobbies of people I know. It is one of the ways to understand ''People," the most engrossing subject in the world. TO THE SEA By Bryce W. Anderson Great foster-mother of wandering sailor men And silent arbiter of destiny, Against whose trembling breasts, in passion free, Beat the bold winds again and yet again, Until they creep away in shame, and then, To still their aching memories of thee Go blustering over mountain, glade and lea, And shout wild triumphs at each peaceful glen: Thine is the power timeless, thine the hold Unshaken by the centuries, and yet, When in thy storm-filled night thou come to grips With that eternity from whose forgotten mould Thy shape was wrought, can you, O Sea, forget The stark ghosts of a thousand ages ships? Patriotism By Edith E. Anderson When you see that flag of beauty Watfted toward the vaulted sky Do you feel an urgent duty To uphold its standard high? Do its bars impel your valour To defend its purity? Do its stars inspire your heart-throbs E'er to beat in constancy? Think no word of pledged devotion Can alone prove loyalty. They who gave this glorious banner Earned their right to liberty. Would you emulate their courage And sustain your country's cause You can give your true allegiance By obedience to its laws. Road Signs By Drucilla H. McFarland ASSPORTS please! Tourists? Pp Ninety cents toll. O. K. For the American side." And so we crossed Ambassador Toll Bridge, that colossal feat of engineering expansion that stretches high above the pleasure boats and the tradeships of international commerce, on the Detroit River, and connects Michigan, U. S. A., with Ontario, Canada. A bronze plaque built into the metal parapet of the bridge bears record of a great service, while it pays tribute to the manhood of these two countries, who went down in the Great War, sacrificing their lives for world betterment. VER a thousand miles, our minds traveled ahead, to Memory Park in Salt Lake City, where remembrance of our native sons is perpetuated by a monument of different type—a beautiful garden under the shadows of the State Capitol Building, with two city blocks picturesquely landscaped along an old river gorge. Significant memorials are these— well planned and fittingly executed. They are distinguishing marks of their locale. WITH our faces turned again home, we followed an old trail. It was the line of march of a pioneer band who gathered from these far states nearly a century ago. From East to West they trekked, doing their bit to build a frontier in the Rockies. Their route is now traceable through country and town. Here and there it is indicated by granite monuments bearing historical data. It is marked with great cities that have rooted and grown as if from seed dropped by these early empire builders as they passed. Each place recounts, with road signs, the story of its own progress. They tell of accomplishment in wealth and population, in civic attainment of tax-freedom, in crime-reduction and school child protection. They proclaim scenic wonders and national enterprises. The landscape itself portrays the attitude of the inhabitants. Thereon are engraved signs of advancement or failure; signs of toil, of negligence 438 of optimism, of despair—each section revealing a story. There is the freshness of New England and the Great Lake states' painted green landscape, a pastoral, truly. The cherry orchards of Michigan and Indiana fairly flaunt temptation to stay and sip their red nectar. Grassy sward-bordered highways are strung mile upon mile with glass jars of fruit cider (maybe only a colored imitation, but sparkling and inviting just the same). Then there is the grain belt with its wide farms joining one another into one vast waving field of gold. Mule teams and drivers bear themselves importantly all along the rich Mississippi and Missouri river valleys, helping to flaunt the yellow banner. Then the long westward-pointing highway runs through county after county of patterned fields striped with tall corn and offset here and there by hog-dotted blocks of pasture. And now the level prairie country and desert. Grease-wood, brilliant cactus, and roving herds of range cattle. Then a few scattered bands of sheep, the Continental Divide, and indication of a rocky mountainous country again. Even here the enlightening road-signs point out interesting features—dinosaur beds, and scenes of Indian encounter. E are home again. What do " we read on the road-signs of Utah? What marks are her citizenry delineating daily upon her face? Do they feature the undaunted spirit of the pioneer fathers? Do they tell of the patient mothers who toiled untiringly for the esthetic and the beautiful? Are there ensigns of refinement and culture and love of home flying from our ramparts today? Yes. And no. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Many homes do portray all that the pioneer designers could have wished for. Some homesteads appear as masterpieces, artist-drawn upon the chart of nature. Others might well be brightened and their marks of discouragement covered by a simple flower garden, for flowers are one of the choicest gifts from a kind Father, intended to suffuse the drab earth with color and to diffuse sweetness and serenity by their perfumed breath. Our roadsides are our press agents. Unsightly ones proclaim a morose attitude toward life, while optimism and progress are shown in the orderly districts. Tourists are observant and critical and the road-sign spirit, be it good or bad, is transmitted to and propagated by them. Herein lies an opportunity and a duty. UTAH has the setting for the loveliest flower gardens in the world. Its hills and dales and streams are priceless assets in acquiring that desired naturalistic effect that makes for real beauty. A natural pool, a gnarled old tree, a hummock, or a depression in the yard will aid us in marking our state with distinction. Individuals and clubs of enterprise in nearly every community have become flower-minded and are now sponsoring home-beautification projects. Commercial growers are spending time and talent to encourage their patrons to improve their neighborhoods. Even the government is furnishing funds for the beautification of homes, parks, and highways. All of these movements are worthy of support. The cooperative efforts of you and me are now needed to make a statewide monument to the noble men and women who made Utah to blossom as the rose. Prayer By a Mother Who Knows Characters—Mother and Father, Jack (16), Phil (8), Ruth (14), Sylvia (6) and Babe (4), also doctor and two neighbors. Setting—Living room of the family. Time—Sunday School time and right after. (Mother is at writing desk writing— father is reading papers. They are talking as curtain rises.) F. You see mother, it sort of made me lose faith in that sort of thing—I had never prayed more earnestly for anything in my life before—and then to see nothing change—just that terrible suffering until he finally (rustles papers to control feelings.) M. Have you ever considered, dear, that perhaps it was better for him to go then than to remain and never be able to see or hear again? F. The least the Lord could have done would have been to have eased his suffering. Oh, I want you to teach the children to pray—its good training for them—but I hope they don't fasten on it as I did and get such a jolt. M. I'm sure its good training and we haven't done justice to it in our home yet. Here's quite a comprehensive statement of it by Santayana —"In rational prayer the soul may be said to accomplish three things important to its welfare—withdrawal within itself and defines its good —accommodates itself to destiny." (pauses and studies father) F. Well? M. (continues to read) "And it grows like the ideal it conceives." F. Uh-huh. (is once more enjoying his papers) M. (to self) Evidently more than the children in this family need converting. (exit) (Babe enters dressed in Sunday best— runs to Daddy and throws herself in his arms disregarding papers.) F. (laughing) Say—whoa—(settles her on lap) "What did you learn in Sunday School today, Babe?" B. A new piece—I can say it (recites) "Father, give us day by day, joy and strength in work and play, Make us good and kind and true, loving Thee in all we do." (Looks for approval at father who beams at her performance and then she sees a comic strip in paper he still holds) Oh, Daddy—read me about Bim Dump. F. (following strip) Bim and Andy are talking to this man—see he is a doctor—Bim says, "And doctor I wish you would look at my wife—I don't like her looks—" Andy looks at the doctor who says "all right" and he says—'Say doctor I wish you'd do something about my wife's looks too—I don't like them either." (Other children enter throwing hats, flopping in chairs and causing general confusion arguing together. Ruth and Jack enter together.) Ruth. ''That teacher is nuts." Phil. Hey, mom, isn't dinner ready? M. (returns to room) All ready— roast chicken, mashed potatoes, tomato salad—" (all start for dining room but she stops them) Wait—I have cooked a lovely dinner for you and I want some thanks. J. (kisses her) Swell mom! M. (laughs) No—I want you to do something for me. 440 R. Oh, let's eat first! M. (goes to desk and brings slips) Today all over the church we are to emphasize prayer—here are some short prayers for you—see who can learn his first while I'm getting dinner on. (hands each one—they object with) "Ah rats'—"Oh Mother" —(Ruth offers to help instead but each finally agrees) (Phil takes his off to corner and starts to shouting but Jack stops him and they finally settle down. Father returns grudgingly to his papers. Mother returns twice to announce "five more minutes" then later "one more minute'—then returns. Babe skipped outside when mother said, "Five more minutes," she stands around until then.) R. Mother, did you write these? M. Oh my no, I found them in the Parents' Magazine. All right, Phil—first? (Mother has to prompt Phil and Sylvia.) Phil. "Father of Human Kindness, teach us to be kind. Keep us from doing unkind or cruel things to any animal or person. Help us to be as good to others as we would have them be to us. Give us gentle words, quiet voices and kindly tongues. May we never call people unkind names or speak unpleasantly of their clothes or toys. Make us sorry when others are in trouble quick to see how we can help them—Amen." But, mother, it wasn't my fault if Sonny got caught—I wasn't even there. (mother gestures him to stop talking and says) M. Ruth? R. "Wise teacher of mankind— we want to be wise. Go with us to our school where we learn (glances at paper) make us honest, never cheating nor taking unfair help from *These prayers are used by permission of "The Parents' Magazine." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE others. May we help the teacher by doing the things she wishes and thus show our thanks for the things she is teaching us. Help us to be good friends with the other students. If others do many things better than we, help us to praise them and be glad with them. If we excel in anything keep us from conceit. Give us real joy in our work because we are always striving to do our best" — there! (returns paper) S. "Giver of true joy—be with us in our play, make us play fair so that others may have a good time too. May we never hurt or spoil the fun for those who play with us. Even in play, may we be thoughtful lest we damage the toys, lawns, bushes, and fences around us. Help us to use our strength to defend the weak, and never to be snobbish but friendly to all. Make us unselfish, glad to_ share our toys with others. Amen." J. (starts right in and talks fast to get to dinner sooner) "Father of Courage—We would be brave, so brave that we shall always tell the truth and do the right, so brave that we shall never need to talk too big nor boast, so brave that we do not cry over little hurts, so brave that we shall never fight except to defend someone who needs our help. Take away our foolish fears and make us brave. Amen." Say, mother, you want us to think when we pray and pray for real values. Your idea is not to have a set wording for a prayer and say it every time, is it? Well, Mom—your kids won't be as dumb about prayer as Jones? They had Apostle Smith to dinner and Junior came in late and looked around and right before the Apostle he said, "Hey—Dad—why are all the chairs turned this way?" (all laugh) M. The chicken is all carved, daddy. PRAYER (All rush through the door, mother last but father turns as he gets to door— others have gone out.) F. Where's babe? M. I think she went out to play— call her, dear. (Mother exits after others. Father exits outside door. Stage is empty and very still for a minute—then a child's: terrible scream is heard from distance— followed by hoarse cry from father. A long pause then father carries baby in as the rest of family rush in terrified. Babe is laid on couch. Mother almost loses control—calling to baby—neighbors near front of stage.) N. Did you get the doctor? N. He's on his way—how on earth did it happen? N. They were chasing each other and didn't see the car—it must have been going at least 50 anyway— (Doctor enters—asks all but parents to leave. Makes swift examination.) Dr. Still unconscious—no outside injuries except severe bruises—there may be inside (pours something on sponge and holds to her face but she still les inert)—I'm sorry—there's nothing can be done but just wait. (Father paces floor—mother is quiet, kneeling at couch—occasionally sobs. Father calls in others who are huddled on other side of door.) 441 F. (arms around Jack and Sylvia) There is something that can be done —but I haven't strength to do it alone—we can pray for her—our prayer may not be answered—but we are willing to abide by the decision of God who knows best. (they all kneel except father who stands and with uplifted face says merely) "Our hearts are full of gratitude to Thee, oh God, for this choice treasure you have given us—we feel unworthy but we humbly and earnestly ask thee, gracious Father, to spare her to us yet a while—because—we love her so—and yet in true sincerity we say —thy will and not ours be done— Amen." (a long pause) (Mother goes to father who puts his arms around her for support. Another long pause then Babe stirs—she moves— she slowly sits up and holds head—other children and parents must be so grouped that this is very evident to audience— children watch her holding their breath —father still facing front stage with mother clinging to him—she finally sees him and calls faintly but clearly.) B. "Daddy—Daddy." (His eyes open in joyful awe—then he closes them as if to silently utter a brief prayer of gratitude—or perhaps stop unruly tears—then he and mother rush to their baby as the curtain falls.) "THIS IS THE PLACE" By Katherine Fernelius Into the echoing silences Beneath the lonely desert sky, A leader spoke four simple words, And if the buzzard sailing high Had heard, he would have screamed with glee; "This is the place" —a place to die! Scorched, barren plain, a dead salt sea, And sagebrush, dreary mile on mile— How harsh it must have smote their eyes, That weary and slow-moving file! Four pebbles dropped in a placid pool... 7 His words an age-old silence broke In that vast space of sky and plain; The little sleeping echoes woke And spread... And gained... And grew apace... And now ten thousand voices ring In glorious song, "This is the Place!" Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon JULY—The true patriot is the law- _ abiding citizen. RENE JOLIOT-CURIE, daughter of the discoverer of radium, Suzanne Lacoire, welfare worker, and Cecile Bannschivig, suffragist, have accepted appointments in the French Cabinet under Premier Leon Blum. The first women in France so honored. MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN, of Utah, with her husband, Dr. Richard R. Lyman, will leave this summer for an extended sojourn in Europe. Mrs. Lyman will have supervision of the women's organizations of the Mormon Church in the European mission with headquarters in London. W: EINIFRED BONFILS (Annie Laurie), famous columnist and newspaper reporter, died recently in San Francisco. The flags of that city were hung at half mast in her honor. RUBY C. BAHR of Wisconsin, ~ and Inez Pitts of Mississippi, telephone operators, received the annual Vail award—a silver medal and $250 cash this year, for unusual courage and prompt intelligent action while at their post. MINERVA RICHARDS KNOWLTON, well known relief and temple worker among the Latter-day Saints, died last May. Her charities were boundless and her service to humanity unexcelled. RACE MOORE, American singer, has received a marvelous ovation in Stockholm, the birthplace of Jenny Lind, "the Swedish nightingale” Crowds followed her as she rode through the streets and cheered in front of her hotel until she appeared on the balcony to bow. Nearly a hundred years ago Jenny Lind received a similar ovation in America. BESSIE BROWN of Utah, who made her debut in a stellar role last May with the Chicago Opera Company, has been engaged to sing contralto roles through the season of 36-37 by that company. KATHARINE HEPBURN has been selected to star in the new picture adapted from the great Hungarian play, Marie Baskirtcheff, so successfully produced last year in Budapest. EHLEN HAYES, as Victoria Regina, has received the annual award for the most distinguished performance of the year, from the New York Drama League. SONJA HEINIE, the newest athletic heroine, has yielded to the Hollywood lure and become professional. MARCIA DAVENPORT'S "Mozart" and "Tomorrow To Fresh Fields,' by Mary Master Needham are among the worthwhile books of the season. BEATRICE HARRADAN, author of "Ships That Pass in the Night," and Mary Johnston, American novelist, were among the famous writers who died this last spring. The Peace That Passeth Understanding By Mary Nolan were bright with angry tears, as her sharp butcher knife made small white cubes of a pile of pork fat. She pushed the filled pan across the table to David, her husband, who was patiently and methodically putting the cubes one by one into a food-chopper, and carefully placing the ground grease into a huge kettle for rendering. The smell of the frying grease, and the mess of it, had irritated Matilda, and now they were going around in that age old argument; and neither knew just what had brought it up this time. "But, David, I don't want the children to be contented here—to grow up, marry someone here and settle down in this place. I can't stand it. That's just what I did, and sometimes I feel like I was hemmed in, and smothered. Ever since I can remember, I have looked forward for the day when I could go away from here. Since the children are growing up, it's worse, and these last few years, with the shortage of water and poor prices, it seems farther away than ever. I want them to go away where they can have advantages that they cannot get here—meet new people, take music lessons, and dancing and know something besides soil and cows, wheat-smut and washing dishes and scrubbing floors. I want them to have all the things I've longed for so and missed. I want them to have culture!' Deliberately, David unfastened the chopper, scraped the knife clean, emptied the remaining MATILDA NELSON'S eyes grease into the kettle, and then turned. "Mattie," he said quietly, "I, too, have longed for many things that I have missed in my life. It has been a source of sorrow to me always that my education so far as schools are concerned, is so meager. But I can't turn the clock back and live it over, so I try not to let the past spoil the present for me. "There are a great many other things to real culture besides dancing gracefully and being able to play the piano with enameled finger tips. I know people who can do neither, and they know cows, soil and all these things that seem disagreeable to you. Real culture is 'that which gives us sympathy with every form of human life.' " "But the worthwhile people for your children to meet and marry, David!" "In every community, village or metropolis — wherever you go — you'll find good and not so good— some of each kind. People are pretty much the same, the world over— always have been and always will be, Mattie. Do you remember how happy Mr. And Mrs. Durham were to get back here, after they had spent a couple of years in the city? You know the sorrow that came to them, while they were there, when their two oldest married 'city-folks.' George and his wife are divorced, and one look at Mary, when she was here visiting, convinced me that her heart is still here with the farmer boy she jilted. "Mrs. Durham told me herself, that in the church organizations here, 444 they have more opportunity of activity because in the large wards there are so many more people than positions for them. She said she had been asked to do much more in the short time she has been home than in all the while she was away. "All of these things help us toward culture, Mattie. The lessons and activities in the various organizations are outlined with that thought in mind." He washed his hands, dried them carefully, and hung the towel smoothly across the bar. "When I was straightening those boxes in the basement, I came across an old Era with an article in it I'd like you to read. I have forgotten the author, but he gave five rules for happiness, and one gave this thought—'That wherever you are, believe that that is the best place in the world for you to be that day.' I read: it years ago and it has helped me mightily. Sometimes when I've had a discouraging day, this thought slips into my mind. At chore time, when I see all the animals eating, and know that we've plenty to eat ourselves, plenty to keep us warm, and a little to share with people less fortunate than we are—all of us well and strong, mentally and physically, gratitude for these things fills my heart. And there is that peace that comes to me that 'passeth understanding,' and all those times the only thing I wish for is that it could come to you, too, Mattie." "Oh, David, you make me tired, you always quote things to me. The only peace I'll ever have is when I leave this hateful place and these hateful people! You've promised that I can take the children away to school next year and I expect you to keep it!" "There are times when you frighten me, Mattie," said David sternly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE but quietly still. "Sometimes I think folks need real trials to come to them. They need the bitter to appreciate the sweet. This straining at the leash is making an old woman of you, Mattie; you are making the children unhappy too. Just yesterday Marie came to me in distress, because you had told her she would have to go away next year; her heart is set on being graduated with the children she has been with ever since she began school. Such things may not seem much to you but they are big things to them." David put on his hat, and stood in the doorway. "I'm through arguing with you, but I'm going to tell you something. I'll bet that you can pick out any five families in this village that have great trials or sorrows—you can choose them yourself—and visit them and you'll find all of them are happier and more grateful for blessings than you are. And I'll dare you to do it!" And David went out, closing the door a little hard for David. He had pierced the one soft spot in Matilda's armor. No one could ever say she had not taken a dare— "Well today's as good a day as any, and I've got to take the cream to the station besides—and I'm not one who cannot say I'm wrong if I am convinced that I am." WO o'clock saw Matilda leaving an immaculate kitchen—the bright cans of lard stood in a row on the drain board to cool. Her plans were made. She would leave the cream at the station, make her visits, and call for the cream check and buy the groceries on her way home. She had taken David at his word and decided to visit the families she considered had the greatest trials. Four, she had in mind and would decide on the fifth later. First was THE PEACE THAT PASSETH UNDERSTANDING 445 Aunt Jane Alden, who had a son in the State Mental Hospital. Next, Lucy Davis, who had suffered ill health and was losing her hearing, and whose husband was "dumb,"— not the kind who was without speech, but one who had too much. Then, Ester Perry who was blind, and lonely. Her aged husband was her only companion. And fourth Mandie Bowen, who was like the old woman in the shoe for children, and whose cupboard was often as bare as Old Mother Hubbard's. The car was an old model, but David kept it up well, and in a short time she was at the cream station. "I’ll get the check on my way home, Bob," she told the attendant, and feeling confident drove the remaining mile to Aunt Jane Alden's home. "Well if it isn't Mattie Nelson, of all people," said Aunt Jane, a sweet faced little woman, in a cheery voice upon opening the door. "(Come in. I'm so glad to see you. We've just finished putting the sausage away, and I haven't changed my apron yet." As her husband picked up a box of glass fruit jars filled with juicy brown sausage cakes she continued. "Put those pint jars handy to the front, Tom." Then turning to Matilda, she said, "I like to have them handy to slip into the little boxes of fruit and cookies and so on that I send to folks who have sickness or trouble," she added brightly. '"Doesn't it give you joy to do things like that?" As she talked she went to a dresser drawer in the next room and came back with a smoothly ironed apron and a letter. "Here's a letter from Fred I'd like you to read, Mattie. It made us very happy. He thinks he may be able to come home for Christmas. Of course he has hoped the same for the last two years and then would get bad again, so Pa and I hardly hope for it, but we are so glad that there are times he can write to us like this. So we don't feel to complain, although our hearts ache; we feel that we must go on just the best we can in spite of our sorrow and do our best to make the world a glad place to be. Don't you think so, too, Mattie?" It bothered Mattie to have to answer these pointed questions. "T guess you are right, Aunt Jane," said Matilda soberly, as she mentally said, "Score one for David." "I must go now, I just thought I'd run up and see how you were while they weighed my cream. I've two or three other calls to make." "Well, thanks for coming, Mattie. It is nice to see you. Let me put these apples in a bag for the children's lunch. Maybe you have some that are better, but I always like to give things to kiddies and I think they like to be remembered too." S Matilda put the apples in the car she said to herself, "TI wonder why I've never thought of that before, and just today I called her hateful. I don't know what Lucy will think when she sees me. I haven't been to see her for so long." At her knock Alex Davis opened the door. "Come in, Matilda. I guess you want to see Lucy, she's in the other room. Go right in." "Yes, I do want to see Lucy, how is she and how are you and the children?" "Oh, fine. I'm just cookin' some potatoes for yeast," as Matilda glanced toward a bubbling kettle on the stove. "Gracie makes the yeast when she gets home from school and mixes bread in the morning. Then I bake it if it gets too light before she gets home. I don't make such 446 pretty loaves as Gracie, but I fix it in some fashion." By this. Time Matilda was in the bedroom and Lucy, with a smile brightening her face was shaking her hand. From the door, Alec was still talking. "You'll have to lean over and holler pretty loud. She can't hardly hear anything. Seems like she's getting a little better though." "T came to see how you are feeling, Lucy, and if I could do something for you," shouted Matilda. That last she hadn't meant to say at all. She didn't know how she had let it slip out. But out it was; and she felt strangely better for it. Lucy answered with a bright smile. "There isn't anything at all we need, Mattie. Alec and the children do very well, with the work and 'm getting strong rapidly. I'll be up in a week or so all the better for my rest in bed. Alec and I can't talk very much, but it's a comfort to have him fussing around the house where I can call him if I need anything. He's patient with the children too. The only thing you could do is come and see me oftener. I'd like that." As she went through the kitchen a little later Alec was preparing apples to bake for the children's suppers. She asked, "Alec, is there anything you'd like me to do for your" "Why, no, Mattie, not as long as we can get-along by ourselves. It makes us feel better to be independent, and it's a good lesson to teach the children. I won't let them suffer at all; but I want them to learn to do for themselves. Thanks just the same, Mattie." "T shall never call Alec Davis 'dumb' again. I guess I've never understood him before," thought Matilda as she closed the gate. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Well, David, score two for your side." HE knocked at the front door of Ester Perry's little cottage, and then walked past the lilac hedge around to the back. Ester was coming from the wood pile, with her apron full of kindlings, her right hand sliding along a smooth wire, which led from the wood pile post to the kitchen door. Lest she frighten her, Matilda called, "Hello, Mrs. Perry, how are you?" Mrs. Perry stopped quickly, and her sensitive features looked puzzled for a moment, then she said, "If it hadn't been so long since I heard that voice I'd say it belonged to Mattie Nelson." "Right the first time, Mrs. Perry," said Matilda brightly, for her, and added, "I'm sorry it has been so long." Her tongue was surely getting unruly today. "Let me take your arm, and we can go faster." In the house Mrs. Perry went straight to the wood box, laid the kindling in and said, "Take a chair there by the stove, Mattie, while I hang up my jacket. Jack went up to Brother Brown's to chat a while and I thought I'd carry in the kindling while he was gone." She seated herself in a low chair near the radio, and said, "Now tell me all the news of the town." "Well, you see, J don't go out much, Ester, so I'm not very well informed. I came today to see how you were feeling." "It's nice of you to take that trouble, and I'm happy to say that ~ Jack and I are splendid. He looks on the dark side once in a while, then I laugh him out of it again. Yesterday Brother Brown came down and they were talking about hard times and having such a good time feeling sorry for themselves. THE PEACE THAT PASSETH UNDERSTANDING 447 Brother Brown was afraid he wouldn't have enough feed for his cattle to finish the winter, and then they started on the depression in general; and I just scolded them. I said, 'You two sound like two old women! With all the blessings you have you shouldn't complain. The Lord has taken care of us all these years and He isn't going to forsake us now before Spring.' And that's just how I feel about it, Mattie. God is good to His children." And as Matilda looked into those sightless eyes she was glad no one could see how small she felt. And as she went thoughtfully out to the car, she said, "Well, four calls will be plenty. I won't bother about the fifth. It looks like David is right." AS she turned off the road and drove up the lane, toward Mandie Bowen's house, she saw two or three children scamper to the house and then saw Mandie come to the window. By the time she had stopped the car Mandie was at the back gate to welcome her. "Hello, Mattie, how nice it is to see you, again. Get off the running board, children, so she can open the door!" and as they went in the house, again Mattie thought of the old woman in the shoe. There was one boy about fifteen chopping wood, two somewhat younger piling it beside the house. Two little girls and a boy clambering along beside their mother, and as they entered the house she saw the twin babies lying in the crib, and the oldest daughter was scrubbing a bare floor. "Sit over here, Mattie, where June has scrubbed and you children | scamper outside now, until the floor dries. Take them to the playhouse, Mary Lue, and tell them a story, while I rest a minute." "Really, I can't stay, Mandie, I came up with my cream and thought I'd make a few calls, while I was waiting. It seems that I have so much to do, I don't see how you manage with your little ones." "Well, I couldn't if they all didn't do their part. The washings are large but June always does most of the ironing before and after school, and I darn and patch overalls and bloomers evenings, while the children study. We get up early and have the twins bathed before school and the dishes washed. We usually fix the lunches the night before. That saves so much time. Since Ned has had this relief work, we have gotten along so much better. I'll declare, it seemed that one of the children always needs shoes. Thank goodness they are all shod now," she said laughing. "There are a lot of us, Mattie, but not one that we could do without;" and she tucked the blanket around one of the twins that had fallen asleep, and patted its rosy little hand. THE sun had dropped behind the western hills, leaving a red afterglow in the sky. As Mattie drove into her own yard Dave was feeding the cows. Hugh, the youngest, was picking up chips, and she heard Tom, the oldest, talking to a baby calf, trying to get it into the shed. "Come on, buddy, you've got to learn to stand on your own legs, in this world," and to the cow, "Go on, Bossy. Tl bring your baby." The glow from the sky reflected on the window panes, smoke was curling from the chimney and the sweet young voice of Marie came floating from the house in song, as she was laying the table for supper. A feeling of well being and joy seemed to flow through Matilda's being and she felt rested and peaceful. 448 "Don't try to lift the can, Mother, I’ll get it," said Hugh. "Hello, Moms," said Marie. "I've the nicest thing to tell you. The dramatic teacher asked me to try out for a part in the all school play. I'd love to, Moms, it will make me late getting home while we practice, though. Do you think I might? You see if we go away next year this is my last chance." "Why, yes, dear, try if you wish. It may give you a better chance for next year if you do well this time. I've given up the thought of going away to school, Marie." "Oh, mother, have you really?" cried Marie happily. And she started to come to her mother, but Mattie checked her saying, "Run upstairs, Marie, and shut RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Tom's window. He's left it open again and the curtain has blown outside." As Marie raced upstairs, she asked herself. "Well, am I dumbfounded?" Later on in the evening when the children were in bed and David had finished his paper, and had folded it carefully, Mattie said quietly, "David—I think we both won by that wager."' And dear, wise David asked no questions. With his kind soul he could never say, "I told you so." Instead he gave her rough little hand an understanding squeeze and said, "I believe we'll have an early spring, Mattie. Tonight I saw a flock of wild geese flying northward." LUGEAN BEWS WITH HER FIVE GRANDMOTHERS Back row: Front row: Forsythe Yates, Marian Hutchison. The Relief Society. Sarah Yates Bews, Ida Wheatley. Great grandmothers, Isabella Wheatley Durrant, Margaret All grandmothers are active workers in The Possession of Pottery By Dorothy Nell Mair HAT was once a coveted treasure of kings and queens is today a cherished possession in every woman's home. And were it not for the disobedience of a king's command, Dresden pottery might still be jealously guarded from general distribution to the masses. Every housewife loves pottery. It expresses her pride. It also expresses her artistic taste. Her well-set dinner table, gleaming with white dinnerware and crystal, bids welcome to the guest in her house. Vases filled with flowers; candy jars on occasional tables; porcelain statuettes upon a mantel, or molded into book ends, all add a coziness to a room that makes it livable. Because pottery is so available to us today, we are likely to forfeit a true sense of value attached to some old family heirloom. Perhaps a vase, an old bowl, or a plate—very much out of date in design—may have been produced in one of the experimental periods which make the history of ceramics so romantic. Our pottery of today is the aftermath of an art once developed under mystic ceremonial rites, and jealously guarded in the long, long ago for pottery is the oldest of the arts. IN Europe, ancient pottery was the cherished possession of royalty, being first produced by an occult process surrounded by superstition and mystery. A great price was placed upon each piece: It was made for kings, and like all the great arts of the past, sponsored by kings. The formulas and secrets of its making were well guarded. It was not intended to be an art in which the masses could share. And so rare were pieces of Oriental pottery that Augustus II of Poland (who ascended the throne of Saxony in 1733) exchanged a regiment of soldiers for pieces which he admired among the treasures of the King of Prussia. A great passion for Oriental pottery swept the continent, and the pottery-makers of Germany attempted to reproduce this type. The experiments were costly, but since royalty could afford anything—at the expense of the taxpayers—the experiments were carried on. Materials were imported from great distances and vast sums of money spent. During these experiments new forms were developed, among them Old Dresden. We cannot think of pottery, especially the figure work, without recalling the name Dresden, which is Meissen porcelain. It was first produced by one Bottger in the year 1710 after a white substance used for hair powder was found to be true kaolin. This discovery was so sensational and so important to the field of ceramics, that the works were moved from Dresden to Albrechtsburg at Meissen for security. Albrechtsburg was a fortress, and the pottery works were placed within its walls. Bottger, with his workmen, was held prisoner. Such was the price of kingly possession and monopoly! THIS early Dresden ware was so admired by the king, that he issued a command forbidding its sale, reserving the pieces for his own use in the palace, or as gifts. Workmen about the castle, and soldiers, too, were often paid in porcelain. 450 But through disobedience of the king's command, pieces came into the hand of those who could afford the price. The prestige of a family was immediately increased by ownership of just one piece. It was forever the pride and joy of the household, no matter how difficult the means of obtaining the purchase price. And so, through disobedience of a king's command, the general distribution of Dresden pottery among the masses began. THE pottery workers, objecting to prison life, escaped one by one to other states of Germany and started factories of their own. As the rage for Dresden pottery spread, smaller states also opened up factories. What was originally an experiment in an attempt to duplicate the Oriental pieces, turned out to be a new form that gained in popularity over the pottery of the Orient. Formulas and designs were perfected and passed on from one master to another, and each master originated formulas of his own, and designs in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE keeping with the period in which he lived and worked. Thus the pottery of the past reflects the civilization of the past from one stage to another. From master potter to successor the patterns were improved upon and changed with the advancement of the centuries, until today, we have a choice of the finest, as well as the most artistic, in dinnerware that any housewife would be proud to own. True, a collector of pottery would be most interested in the rare old pieces of the past. The old patterns of the past are valuable, and attractive too. So, also, are the patterns of our day, which mirror our civilization. But unlike the pottery of old, the modern pottery is all the more attractive to the housewife, because of the wide range of selection in design and quality. She is able to purchase quality in keeping with her financial budget, and yet have the elegance of artistic taste, and the pride of her own home expressed in her dinnerware. For not even a king can deprive her of this prestige now. MRS. LORENZO LEAVITT OF SANTA CLARA, UTAH AND HER SEVEN DAUGHTERS How Does Your Religion Function? By Fern Killian Grote F A man's sense organs are faulty the impressions he gets are faulty also. If the eyes do not focus properly illusion may be the result. Noises in the head or misleading sounds annoy one and if the subject does not become queer, he is not his normal self. If the olfactory nerves become fatigued he has what we call "smell exhaustion." Quite frequently some of the olfactory nerves become exhausted from continuous use and we say he has got used to a certain odor and can no longer detect it, but the other olfactory nerves are in normal condition and he detects other odors. RELIGION may be defined as man's effort to unify himself with the universe in order that he may feel more at home here. If his religion functions properly, it will make him a better man, happier and more contented, but if his religion is faulty, his adjustment is faulty and his religion often does more damage than good. Like the winding river and the cow path, nervous energy and man's religion tend to follow the line of least resistance. Because of this it is difficult to eliminate superstition from religion. We allow superstition to creep in. In fact we are prone to actually teach it, and invite it. LET us pause for a moment to glance at the mechanical apparatus of thinking. Every minute part of our body is tied up with our thinking. The sensations are called the gateways to the mind. The nerves carry sensory impressions to the nerve centers. The smallest nerve unit is the neurone. Each nervous impulse has to travel from neurone to neurone until it reaches its destination. Between neurones is a neutral zone that offers a certain amount of resistance which has to be worn down and a direct route established. When the eyes see something delightful a sensory neurone chain carries the message to the brain center and the brain sends out a motor chain response and we reach for the object without a conscious thought. We have become efficient in this because these nerve impulses have been traveling continually back and forth over a direct route since we were tiny babies, but how many babies of three or four months can do it? After they learn to look at an object, they have difficulty learning to put their hands on it. Their nervous impulses are traveling the paths of least resistance. They have not yet learned to travel the straight and direct route. The resisting shrubbery must be cut down and a direct route established. HOME of our greatest psychologists say that religion is an instinct. If a child were allowed to grow up alone on an island, he would make some effort to identify himself with the universe, would probably form some idea as to how he got there and what might happen to him. We could hardly expect him to have a religion so complete as Christianity. Religion has a history. An effort to get the goods of life and preserve them with the help upon which we depend spells religion. In ancient days of the burnt sacrifice, people 452 believed that feasts would gratify the nostrils of God and he would hear their prayers. Later they undertook to flatter Him; give Him feasts, and dance and sing to Him. Superstition and distorted ideas were the vogue and we have-not entirely crawled out from under them. How many of us worship in the old fashioned way instead of glorifying our Maker by our lives of good works? Religion works upon the subconscious mind and our thoughts in a very subtle way. Our subconscious mind controls us to a great extent. Most of our work, eating, playing, reading and even thinking is done subconsciously. If we think conscientiously, weigh the facts reasonably, for or against a decision, it is real work. Our subconscious mind is built up from childhood like our nerve patterns and facial features so it is doubly important that we teach our children a religion built solidly upon truth; one that won't suddenly drop out from under them when a critical question arises. Faith is a direct means of reaching the subconscious because one's point of view controls his actions. Guide your child's thoughts while he is young enough to take your word as authority. Teach him to think clear, direct thoughts that appeal to his reason and best judgment. William James, the great psychologist says: "As you think you travel; and as you love you attract. You are 'today where your thoughts have brought you; you will be tomorrow where your thoughts take you. You will realize the vision, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not the idle wish of your heart, be it base or beautiful, or a mixture of both, for you will always gravitate toward that which you, secretly, most love. Whatever your present environment may be, you will fall, remain or rise with your thoughts, your wisdom, your ideal. You will become as small as your controlling desire; as great as your dominant aspiration." If your child's faith is built upon superstition, ignorance, fear and untruth his entire life may become warped, narrow and mean. Look at your own religion. What has it done for you? A> for myself, I want a religion unfettered by the belief that children are born in sin. Such a belief is ugly and unreasonable. I want a religion that will recognize sex in a wholesome, beautiful manner; that will recognize love as the strongest force in the world. I want a religion that teaches "The Glory of God is Intelligence." That teaches progression and keeps me stimulated to do better work. I will consider no dead religions that appeal to fear and negative motives. "Confess and be saved" has passed. I know that the one who puts his hand on the stove and is burned will have a sore hand no matter how much he confesses or repents afterward. It may save him the next burn, but he has to pay for breaking the law. I want a religion unfettered by dogmatism. "Man is that he might have joy." Let me breathe a prayer of gratitude when joy is awakened by love, a strain of music, a scene, or a poem. Books of the Old Testament By Leona W. Fosgren GENESIS tells of the origin Of the world, of man and of sin; EXODUS tells of Israel's flight And sojourn, the desert within. LEVITICUS gives all the laws Relating to holiness; NUMBERS tells of the trials Of forty years in lowliness. DEUTERONOMY means "second law," The commandments and rules it discloses; These five books taken together Are known as the "Five Books of Moses." Now twelve books of history come next, — Telling tales of the laws of the land; The sinner, the wicked, the righteous, How they shunned or obeyed God's command. First comes JOSHUA, the prophet so great, Telling the conquest of Palestine; How Israel divided the land, Each tribe given their own boundary line; While JUDGES tells of the struggles Of the lawless, disorganized ring Of the Hebrew rulers that led, Before they selected a king. RUTH with her sweet story tells Of the ancestry of David and Christ, And of a love so loyal and true That naught its devotion enticed. Two SAMUELS who come next in line, Tell of Eli, the High Priest of all; How the Hebrews were given a king, And the doings of David and Saul. Two KINGS follow next with their tales Of King Solomon, great and wise, With the capture of Jerusalem, Judah's fall and Israel's rise. While CHRONICLES I (one) and II (two) Are of ecclesiastical type With genealogy, statistics and methods Of worship and ceremonial rite. EZRA AND NEHEMIAH are like Chronicles I and II With the history of theocracy, and statistical items too. Then ESTHER, the sweet virgin Jewess, The queen so noble and brave, Who heroically offers her life Her beloved people to save. Now five books of poetry rare, Of doctrine and prophecy too Come next as a division mark 'Twixt history and prophets so true. JOB is a dramatic poem Which great human suffering portrays; Yet beneath it all a great faith, And a knowledge of God, it displays. PSALMS full of beauty and song, And PROVERBS with wisdom so rare, ECCLESIASTES with story and verse, And SOLOMON'S SONGS fill the air. The five major Prophets come next, Recording the message of old, ISAIAH, JEREMIAH, LAMENTATIONS, EZEKIEL, so bold. With twelve Minor Prophets to follow, Each with a message of love. HOSEA who teaches forgiveness and DANIEL 454 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE And AMOS who, too, warning his HAGGAI and ZECHARIAH both EHS. Urging the Jews to complete Into paths of truth and right living And tells of the Great Judgment And all of God's teachings to heed. Day, HABUKKUK how God gives us And pleads that God's laws they'll His word, obey. WAITING (Awarded Third Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest) By Ethellynn Jones Waiting— Through the darkness of the night, Peering at the window: Longing for a light A ray of hope, A shadow—to fall across the door— Lips to caress, Arms, embracing as of yore. 'Waiting— Mad with fear! Knowing only the flash of steel, The crash of war— The moans of dying men, Praying God, To send him home again. Waiting— Stooping to steal a kiss From her sleeping babe, Pondering o'er the little son, Wondering if the dawn Will ever come. Waiting— Dreaming in fitful sleep That he is by her side— Only to awake In Tears, Watching—Praying— Waiting— Through the Years Of man, as does God up above. JOEL, the prophet of Judgment, Urging his people to repent, _ te Change lest God's judgments OBADIAH and JONAH and MICAH, Each striving their people to lead NAHUM tells of the fall of Assyria; ZEPHANIAH predicts the approach Of the terrible day of the Lord, The temple so long ago started, And thus sin and suffering defeat. MALACHI exhorts to repentance, And the advent of Elijah, the Prophet, Notes to the Field Attention Work and Business Leaders Wilt you call your members' attention to the six prizes to be offered by the General Board of the Relief Society for Greeting Cards? It will be a credit to you, to your ward and to your stake, if one of your members wins a prize. Six prizes, copies of Handicrafts for Every Woman, will be given for the best greeting or anniversary cards as follows: For best block print (see page 77 Handicrafts for Every Woman. For best linoleum cut (see page 79 Handicrafts for Every Woman. For best stencil (see page 81 Handicrafis for Every Woman. For best wax crayon (see page 122 Handicrafts for Every Woman. For best spatter paint (see page 156 Handicrafts for Every Woman. For best water color (see page 155 Handicrafts for Every Woman. All designs must be original. They may be for Mother's Day, Birthdays or other anniversaries—such as Relief Society Day, Christmas, New Year's Day or any other occasion. It is hoped that some designs submitted will be suitable to use as cards for gift Relief Society Magazines. Any member of the Relief Society is eligible to enter this contest. All cards must be in the Secretary's office not later than November 15, a ee ae a ee a OY a YY a ee ee Oe, ee Oe ee Oe 1936. Each contestant should be sure that her name and address are on the back of her card. Send cards to General Secretary, Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. OMEN have stepped out of their seclusion and become welcome guests in our homes as singers of songs—new and beautiful. These women heard the whisperings and responded to the inspiration, released their particular gifts, and left their writings as a legacy for us to enjoy. Students of human nature, and from the diverse avenues in which they walked, they have given us gems—spiritual and intellectual. Their contribution has blessed the whole world. HE titile "New Lamps for Old" is from the story of Alladin. Miss Millay gave a recital of some of her poems at the West High School during the winter of 1929. "The Citizen" by Dwyer may be found in Collier's Magazine for Nov. 20, 1915. Teachers may probably procure a copy of this magazine for a little more than regular cost by writing: Mr. Fred Wilkins Danners, Mass. or H. W. Wison & Co., 958 University Ave., New York City, N. Y. MAGAZINE DRIVE ' TIME SEPTEMBER 15th TO OCTOBER 15th PREPARE PLANS NOW DETERMINE TO REACH HIGHER PERCENTAGES THAN YOU DID LAST YEAR Notes from the Field By Julia A, F. Lund ROM the widely scattered fields covered by Relief Society, many interesting biographical sketches come into the office. These tell the story of wonderful lives, devoted to the highest ideals, servants of our Heavenly Father and His children here upon earth. They tell gripping stories of the building of the West, the dangers, the privations and the triumphs of Pioneer days. They are living examples of Faith-Hope Charity. The story of these dear sisters always cover many years of devoted service in the Relief Society. It would give us great pleasure to publish in detail the narrative of these full and beautiful lives, but space will not permit. July is the month when the spirit of the Pioneers is strongly with us, and it is appropriate that a brief sketch be given of as many of these. As we have had sent to the office. We realize that numbers of these noble women have not been known beyond a small community; that only our kind Father above knows the full extent of their services; others have touched the lives of thousands of grateful people. They have all handed to us today a glorious heritage, and whether acknowledged or not they have the love and gratitude of Relief Society. Logan Stake GISTER MARY C. PEHRSSON of the Logan Stake claims the remarkable record of "a Relief Society Visiting Teacher for over fifty-two years—a temple worker for the same length of time." To achieve this distinction is evidence of an angelic disposition, with love and charity for all humanity. This interesting life began in Midoka, Sweden, more than eighty-nine years ago. Her father was a soldier in the Swedish army, but the family lived in a farming district. Sister Pehrsson says, "I attended school until I was thirteen years of age, when I had to go to work. I worked in the field, also learned to spin and weave. I could take the wool from the back of a sheep and put it through all the process necessary to make cloth, then weave the cloth also. I can do the same with flax. "As a young girl, I met Lars Pehrsson, who worked on a farm near the one on which I worked. We became good friends and were married." Early in their married life, a Mormon Elder came into the part of Sweden where they lived. They heard the gospel message and believed it. The urge to come to Zion was very strong. Fifty-six years ago this desire was fulfilled, when they arrived in Logan, Utah, where they made their home; Sister Pehrsson says, "I have lived in three wards of Logan and have never moved from my home." Service in the Relief Society and temple work have been major activities in the life of this worthy Sister. She says, "I attended the dedicatory services of the Logan Temple May 17, 1884, also the fiftieth anniversary of this day, May 17, 1934." "My husband filled two missions to our native land. During these years I worked very hard doing anything and everything to help support my children and keep him on his missions. The Lord blessed us even though we were deprived of many NOTES FROM THE FIELD comforts of this life. Much of my work has been among the sick and with the dead. I took care of five different people in our ward until they died, had to work early and late. Though the journey of life has been long and arduous, it has never caused me to doubt for one minute the truthfulness of the Gospel message we received in our native land." "Now at the age of 89 years, I have nothing to do but go to the temple each day, attend my different meetings and praise God for this privilege. I have been told by the servants of the Lord that my last days will be my best days, and I feel it is so. I have good health, am able to wait on myself and keep my own home, for which I thank my Father." Benson Stake BENSON STAKE furnishes the sketch of another Pioneer woman. Early in this year a Relief Society Visiting Teachers' social was held in Richmond and among the interesting events was the story of this outstanding record of service. Sister Metha Cristofferson, now eighty-four years of age, has been a Visiting Teacher for forty-six years. She is the mother of thirteen children, and even with this great labor of home making and child guidance, she has found time to sew on the burial clothes committee for the Relief Society and to diligently carry on her work in the organization and make her visits most regularly. She feels that the Lord has greatly blessed her, and today she bears the same strong testimony of the Gospel truth that she had when she left her native land—Denmark. South Sevier Stake NE of the very few remaining women who still lives to tell of 457 the personal experience of Pioneer days, is Sister Ann Tidd, Monroe's oldest resident, who was the guest of honor at a social held in the Monroe North Ward Relief Society Hall under the direction of Mrs. Genevieve Tietjen, literary class leader. April 28, 1936, marked her ninety-fourth anniversary. Her life runs almost parallel with that of the Relief Society organization, born April 28, 1842, at Wriglose Magle, Shelland, about ten miles from Copenhagen. She was only eight years of age when Erastus Snow carried the gospel to Denmark. Her father and family embraced the gospel, which made a great change in their lives, as they sold their old home and emigrated to America in 1862. Sister Tidd was twenty-one years old when she left Denmark. She had been in service for seven years during which time she did a great deal of spinning and carding, both wool and flax. She made all of her own clothes and helped with others. This was during the winter months. In the summer she tended cows and worked in the fields. The long sea voyage, with crowded quarters and inadequate food, even the death of one of the party, still present a vivid picture in Sister Tidd's mind. This was followed by the long trek across the continent, more than one thousand miles on foot. It was during the Civil War, and memories of that are still clear, as the reports reached the emigrants on their westward journey. The order of the emigrant trains, the strict food regulations, "the sourdough" bread, the sleeping under the stars, the constant danger from animals and Indians, all these events are undying pictures of that memorable time! Sister Tidd met her husband, 458 James W. Tidd, about two years after her arrival in Utah. Her first home was in Cottonwood, from which she moved to Sanpete. To quote from her own story, "By this time my husband's clothes were badly worn and we had a few head of sheep. I sheared the sheep, washed and carded the wool and spun it into cloth for my husband's suit. "We stayed in Sanpete three years, then we heard of land we could get in Monroe, so we came here in 1872. In the fall of that year the Relief Society was organized by Moses Gibberd, and I was chosen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as treasurer. Shortly after the Mutual was organized, and I was chosen counselor and in 1879 the Primary was organized, and I was chosen president, and held that office sixteen years. Then I was chosen president of the Relief Society and held that office ten years. I was also a teacher in Sunday School all those years." Her biographer says, "Mrs. Tidd still enjoys reading and is a fluent speaker at religious meetings. She cuts and sews rags and makes crochet rag rugs. She does her own work and is. Very neat and clean and is dearly loved by young and old." HE GAVE THEM DREAMS By Grace Zenor Pratt He gave them dreams, the pioneers of old, Visions of future years; that faith so bright That glows in martyr's breasts and wakes again Through deepening trials and the darkest night. God gave them visions of green valleys wide, Of tall spires rising, mystic temple towers, Cool lakes, soft shimmering beneath the blue—, The sunset hills and fairy vales and bowers. He gave them songs to sing when it was evening time— Round camp-fire's dying embers, there beside the way; He gave them rest, reward for toil well done, He gave his own beloved sleep, at close of day. He gave them resignation for each loss; They left their loved ones lonely, silent, free from pain— Far, far beyond that day of sorrow's aching grief— They knew full well that loss would bring its gain. But best of all, He gave them dreams to dream— Of journey ended, home and fireside's peace, Where all the troublings of a hostile world Should be removed; they dreamed of sweet release. They found the place—grey and untilled, forlorn—,. They set their standards—and their faith has wrought A miracle of beauty—God hath heard their plea, And granted answer, greater than they thought. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN - KATE M. BARKER JULIA A. F. LUND Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B. Knight Lalene H. Hart Lotta Paul Baxter Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Elise B. Alder Inez K. Allen Ida P. Beal THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith Irvine Nettie D. Bradford - President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Marcia K. Howells RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: - - - - - - - - Mary Connelly Kimbal Manager - - - - - - -: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager: - - - -:: - Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXIII JULY, 1936 No. 7 Editorials Freedom N the far-distant past a momentous question was settled in the Council in Heaven when Lucifer's plan of compulsion was rejected and Christ's plan of free agency was accepted. Since that time the impulse for freedom has been in men everywhere, although at times it has slumbered or been buried so deep that people did not realize it was there until it burst forth into new flame. AMERICA, according to the Book of Mormon Prophets, was to be a land of promise where the inhabitants were to enjoy liberty as long as they served God and kept His commandments. They promised that this land should never be brought into captivity unless iniquity should abound, in which case the land should be cursed to the wrong doers, but to the righteous it should be blessed forever. The Prophet Lehi promised that if the inhabitants kept the commandments they should be blessed, none should molest them, and they should dwell safely forever. He admonished, "If the day shall come that they will reject the Holy One of Israel, the true Messiah, their Redeemer and their God, behold, the judgments of him that is just shall rest upon them. Yea, he will bring other nations unto them, and he will give unto them power, and he will take away from them the lands of their possessions, and he will cause them to be scattered and smitten." I due time this land, which was to be kept for people who would worship God, was discovered by Columbus. After many years freedom hungry colonists settled in the land. Then because they felt that freedom such as they longed for and that in justice they should have was denied them, the Revolutionary War was fought. After its triumphant close a new nation was born having an idea of individual freedom and of individual development such as no government had ever before enunciated or fostered. It is significant to note that this Constitution was formulated by men 460 who believed in the necessity of God's inspiration and direction. Benjamin Franklin urged, after they had met for some time and had been unsuccessful in arriving at satisfactory results, that a chaplain be appointed to meet with them and supplicate the Creator. He thought it was strange that while they had sensed the necessity of Divine help in the contest with Great Britain and had held prayers daily, prayers that had been heard and graciously answered, that in seeking to form a new government, they had either forgotten. Their "Powerful Friend" or had felt that they no longer needed His assistance. He said, "I have lived, sir, a long time, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth: That God governs in the affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without His notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without His aid? 'We have been assured, sir, in the sacred writings, that "except the Lord build the House they labour in vain that build it.' I firmly believe this; and I also believe that without His concurring aid we shall succeed in this political building no better than the builders of Babel. We shall be divided by our little partial local interests; our projects will be confounded, and we ourselves shall become a reproach and by-word down to future ages. And what is worse, mankind may hereafter from this unfortunate instance, despair of establishing governments by human wisdom and leave it to chance, war, and conquest." So under divine guidance the Constitution was formulated beginning with, "We the People of the United States, in order to form a more perfect Union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America." While the Declaration of Independence was signed on July 4, 1776, it was not until July 8th that the Liberty Bell proclaimed to all the world that a new republic had been born. The colossal Statue of Liberty standing in New York harbor proclaims to all immigrants coming from foreign shores that this is a land where liberty reigns and that its light shall enlighten the world.
IN this country where the greatest good to the greatest number was to be the ideal, the people have taken liberty for granted and perhaps have not duly valued it. Now when half of Europe has abandoned even any semblance of democracy, they may have had and are seeking stability in leaving the power and responsibility on the shoulders of a few men, when dictators are flourishing, the people of this land of liberty should be conscious of the advantages and pricelessness of freedom. They should study its history and see what it has brought to them.
ALL too few realize how marvelous are the opportunities and benefits derived from living in this land of the free. Rose Wilder Lane in the Saturday Evening Post says: "Individualism has given America the highest standard of living in the world. Today America, and only America, offers every child free schooling to the gates of college. Only America has a free public-library system, with an extension service to villages and farms. Only America has free radio programs and unlicensed, untaxed radios. Common men elsewhere would hardly expect to own a radio. Except the British Empire, only America has an uncensored press."
JAMES TRUSLOW ADAMS, in his book, The Epic of America, points out that this country's distinctive and unique gift to mankind is the "American dream," a dream that foresees in America a land where life shall be "better and richer and fuller for every man," where each shall be privileged to develop his gifts and achieve according to his ability, "a dream of a social order in which each man and each woman shall be able to attain to the fullest stature of which they are innately capable." The dream not of material wealth but of opportunity to develop to one's highest capacity, has drawn millions from the old world, and the dream has been realized more fully in America than elsewhere. We have boasted of our wealth, of our prestige, of our power. Thinkers now realize that we should put emphasis of thought upon the true values of life. Important as mechanical and physical things are, and although they do add to the comfort and happiness of life, yet there are spiritual values which have been neglected and which should now be brought to the fore. So the big question today is, "What is a better and richer life for all men?" If the American dream is to come true and to abide with us, it will at bottom, depend on the people themselves. If we are to achieve a richer and fuller life for all, they have got to know what such an achievement implies."
President Calvin Coolidge truly said, "To live under the Constitution is the greatest political privilege that was ever accorded to the human race." We, privileged to live under this great magna charta, must realize that liberty does not mean license, it means responsibility. We should honor and sustain the law and those placed over us.
Brother and Sister Lyman Called to Mission Field
WITH mingled feelings we heard recently of the call of Apostle Richard R. Lyman and his wife, our own Amy Brown Lyman, to the European Mission. Brother Lyman will succeed Brother Joseph F. Merrill as President of the Mission. Sister Lyman will preside over the Relief Societies. This will be the first time one of our executive officers has filled this important post. Sister Lyman's long experience and training in the work will be of inestimable help to the Mission Organizations. We shall miss them keenly, but we rejoice because they are fitted to give unusually fine service in their new field of labor. May they do much good and get great joy from their ministry.
Close of Season's Work
AT the close of our regular study meetings, we congratulate our officers and members on the excellence of the work accomplished. Teachers have shown marked improvement in teaching ability; members have participated more generally in the class work, and there has been the same beautiful spirit that has ever characterized our meetings. Closing union meetings have been unusually enjoyable and inspiring. Some stakes gave lovely dramatizations showing different phases of our work. The social hour that followed made for good fellowship. The loveliness of these occasions contributed to the culture and refinement of the members. May a well earned rest come to all our officers and members. They should remember, however, that—
"Rest is not quitting life's busy career, Rest is but fitting one's self for her sphere."
May the summer vacation be delightful, may much sewing be done for the needy and much reading enjoyed that will enrich the work of the coming season.
Minerva Richards Knowlton
MINERVA RICHARDS KNOWLTON, mother of our Board Member, Marcia K. Howells, passed to the great beyond May 28, 1936. For years Sister Knowlton served efficiently as secretary, counselor, then as president of the Relief Societies of Davis County. Her work was most effective. Sister Wells said, "Sister Knowlton can always be depended upon to see the right way and do the right thing." All who knew her recognized how lovely was her personality, how unselfish, kind and self-sacrificing she was. She was a wonderful mother. Not only did she rear her own children but several of her husband's children whose mother had died and several grandchildren. Sister Knowlton knew the conditions of Pioneer life. She was always a hard worker. As a young girl she milked cows, churned butter, scrubbed floors, washed and ironed, carded wool for quilts, made rag carpets and in addition did quantities of fine art needle work. She loved life deeply and got the most enduring values out of it. She made many wise remarks. We quote three of them:
"I have found that not only children but even grown people feel more comfortable when they are well and appropriately dressed."
"When I was unhappy, I always tried to do something for someone else, the doing of which brought me happiness in return."
"To have a true friend one must be a true friend and the same is true regarding neighbors."
Sister Knowlton's last years were spent as a temple worker, where her gentle sweetness endeared her to all. In her death the grave has won no victory, her fine character, her excellent example, and her lovely personality, which have so enriched the lives of others, will not be forgotten; and her numerous good works will live as a monument to her memory and an inspiration to others. She has but passed from mortality to immortality where she will enjoy her reward and the fulfilment of her highest desires.
Character Building of the Little Child By Ida M. Durnin
AS surely and imperceptibly as the passing of time the character of the little child is formed. We cannot follow the growth of the child's character, yet we know that day by day the habits of the child are being formed in the home. He is simply the raw material out of which character is to be fashioned by the almost imperceptible influence of his surroundings. All parents desire the best for their children in both mental and physical ways. But so often we do not know what is the best. It is not the fine furniture in the house that makes the ideal home but rather the attitude of the parents in the home however small it may be as example is, of course, the best teacher, and children learn by what they see the parents do, and not by what they are told. They must study the children as individuals and teach them, while they are small the fundamental habits of cleanliness, helpfulness and manners we so much desire for our children as they grow into men and women.
Every mother will admit that it is far easier to do all the little trivial tasks about the house than it is to teach little bungling fingers how to do these tasks, but patient teaching will result in much good, as the child is learning co-operation, responsibility in the care of the home, and also the surplus energy of the child is being utilized in other ways than in boisterous play.
As soon as the child is old enough to play and scatter toys about he is old enough to help mother put them away. A bottom drawer in a cupboard or dresser is an ideal place for toys as it is easy for the small child to get them out when he wants them, and after a few times of helping him pick up the toys and put them away, it will come natural and he will consider it part of the play time if just a few words of praise and encouragement are given by mother when everything is nicely put away. It is well to watch the child that he does not get over tired at his play before starting to put the toys away or there may be a scene and he refuse to pick them up.
As the lesson in putting away toys is being taught, he can also learn to hang up his little coat and cap, but before trying to teach this neatness be sure that the hangers are pretty and bright and low enough for him to reach easily. In the bath room too see that a little stool is provided that he may be able to reach the washbowl with ease, have his own little towels within easy reach, also bright colored wash cloth, pretty colored soaps which are now put out by National Soap Manufacturing companies, bright handled tooth brushes and paste that tastes like gum is an incentive to clean teeth. One of the things that the modern dentist tries to impress upon young mothers is that the baby teeth should receive just as careful care as the second set.
As the child grows older and acquires an accumulation of toys just like mother uses, only smaller, they may be turned to good account in child training, a toy broom will sweep the porch and steps just as well as a larger one. The toy electric iron that is such a joy to every little girl to iron her doll clothes, can be used to teach her to iron small articles for mother, and iron them well. Wash days are never a joy even with the best equipment, but it is really a help if the child has a toy line and pins and hangs up all the small pieces which are such a nuisance when one is tired and in a hurry. It is surprising how young a child may be taught to put a room in order, papers and magazines picked up and placed in the rack, and while doing this the accumulation of litter and trash on the living room floor can be picked up, and by using praise and patience with their first efforts it is surprising how soon a child will be able to do a good job of setting a room to rights and saving mother hundreds of steps a day.
A pretty bright colored dust cloth with little apron and cap to match is a clever way to make dusting attractive, as every little girl likes to dress up. Little son likes to do chores when father is doing his and the feeling of the importance of co-operation makes every task a pleasure to him, of course it's necessary to have tools and equipment suited to his size, and here again the practical toys come into use, there is almost no end of uses for the small wagon and wheelbarrow; these with the toy shovel, rake and hoe, can be utilized to keep the yard free from litter and trash. Chips, cobs and wood can be hauled to the back door for mother, and if a nice spicy, brown cookie, and a sunny smile from mother greets the little worker, how much more easily and more cheerfully will all these tasks be done, and how much happier will the child be in its efforts to help mother, if these efforts are duly appreciated and encouraged by words and looks of praise.
It is never too early to begin training our children to be useful men and women, and to form their character that they may be able to take their place in the scheme of life and be able to carry on successfully.
PRAYER AT THE TRAIL'S BEGINNING By Linnie Parker
As I stand at the foot of the mountain And gaze at the peaks I must scale, Oh, dear God, give me strength not to falter As I climb up the rough, rocky trail!
All life's pathway has been so delightful— So smooth and so easy before, That my feet, unaccustomed to climbing Have thousands of perils in store.
Give my feet and my hands that firm sureness They'll need for this dangerous road, Give me vision that's clearer and keener, And strengthen my back for its load;
Give me courage to keep right on climbing— From here it looks hard, but I know That the trail will grow less steep and rugged With each forward step that I go;
Give me faith in the One who created This steep mountain-side and the trail— May I know He who called me to climb it Will give me the strength not to fail!
Hidden Worth By Eva Willes Wangsgard
"AS ye have done it unto the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." Jesus said so long ago. We read but we do not always act. How often we neglect the opportunity before us! We, like the ancient Greeks, too often expect a beautiful body to cover a beautiful soul.
Once, in those almost forgotten yesterdays, when to go to the fair at the county seat was an adventure, my big brother hired a rig from the livery stable and traveled the eighteen miles to attend the fair. When he returned he brought with him a beautiful ivy for my mother who was a lover of house plants.
ONE day, mother noticed a tiny plant, so wilted and starved-looking, struggling to make its way beneath the ivy. She carefully removed it to a pot of its own. My brother teased her heartily for devoting more time and attention to the foundling than to the beauty he had bought for her. My mother smiled and said, "I have always been intrigued by the possibilities in apparently insignificant things. I shall take care of it and see what it becomes."
As time went by the tiny thing became a plant of rare beauty. Although I have spent much time in the development of plants in my garden, I have never seen its like. It was some kind of cactus producing enormous scarlet blossoms which dripped honey in such quantities that papers had to be spread beneath it to protect the furnishings near it. At one time it carried seventeen brilliant blossoms and was a sight worthy of anyone's attention.
How often among our fellows is that true also! How many apparently common folk have hidden possibilities if they were given more encouragement! How many of the little ones intrusted to our care may be among the world's great, tomorrow? How many Edisons are we pushing aside, in our impatience, because we do not understand? How many great souls among our humble neighbors are we discouraging because their great worth is not apparent? How many of us have eyes and see not!
From among the "least of these" came Christ, himself, Socrates and numerous brethren. Tenderly, thoughtfully, patiently, let us care for the little ones and the humble ones among us. Our greatest souls may wear the simplest forms:
A humble lump of matted earth Beside a paved street lay, Where sun could shine and rain could fall, Where rough feet trod all day.
Men marveled when a tulip bloomed From that poor clod one morn; Still, was it not from common clay The Son of God was born?
APPRECIATION By Matilda F. Mortensen
The flowers, dear friend, you brought me yesterday Hath taken root, and clinging tendrils find Their way and twine around my heart. I wonder If you knew the words they'd say And if you knew the meaning they'd impart. I wonder if you knew their value in their art Of healing wounds so sore. And if you knew, they would not die, But bloom afresh each day, forever more. I wonder if you knew I hungered for them, too. And if you knew I'd know their worth The flowers that came from you. And if I knew the message they did bear From You. With others I should share Prolific bloom and lasting fragrance sweet To help them on as you did me. And when I close my eyes in that last sleep 'Twill help me cross the way, the flowers you sent. The flowers we love today Encouragement.
EARTH'S SYMPHONY By Linnie Fisher Robinson
Earth is replete with sunshine now, And blossoms riot on the bough; Out of its frozen sleep the stream Leaps singing where its banks are green: And on the shoulders of the hill Flashes the gold of daffodil; The valleys wake to bursts of song As the soaring lark his notes prolong. Over the dew of morning grass The harmony of colors pass Mirrored in each crystal prism Reflecting life and light and rhythm. But oh, the glory over all And oh, the glory in it all Is, "Christ the Lord is Risen!"
CHILD OF THE HAND-CART TRAIN By Camilla Woodbury Judd
I see her trudging down the dusty trail, Struggling to keep within the hand-cart's sight, A girl-child, knowing anguish and travail, Clasping the hand of baby brother tight— Or on her back the loving burden bore, Her faithful little feet so tired and sore.
I hear her singing down the silent wind, Singing to the creaking of hand-cart wheels; Cheering the lagging feet that fall behind, A song of faith and courage as she kneels To smile into a little tear-stained face, And heal its heartache with her childish grace.
Sighing and praying when all is still; Beseeching God in His mercy and might, To heal her father stricken so ill; Dear little body o'erburdened with care, Tomorrow the weight of the load must share.
I see her lending her childish might, Pushing the cart on its tortuous way For her gentle mother, broken and white, Alone in the traces must toil today; Dear God, give me just one note of that song, Of the spirit that led her feet along.
I see her sobbing by the campfire's glare, Piling it higher with trembling hand; For baby, left to the children's care, Is lost in the treacherous timberland; And her father, weak from fever and pain, Is searching and praying and calling in vain.
I can see him standing so gaunt and tall, While her mother pins 'round him, a bright wool shawl— "If you find him dead—wrap him tenderly, If alive, a signal wave to me," And breathing a prayer, "Thy will be done," Alone he faces the rising sun.
I see her keep watch by the dimming trail, Three days have passed and her tired eyes fill; But the faith within her will never fail, When lo—from the top of a distant hill Glimmering faint in the sunset's glow, A bright wool shawl waves to and fro.
I see her kneeling—words cannot tell, The sweet soul gratitude, given birth; Someone is singing, "All is Well," And she falls asleep on her bed of earth. Kind God, I thank Thee that she I can claim, As my mother—child of the hand-cart train.
MOTHER By Bertha M. Rosvear
God has given us blessings far more than our share, Since He placed us on earth here to live; But to crown all the rest He has graciously given The most priceless He ever could give, Though He carefully searched through the Heavens and earth He never could find such another. To each He has given that which we love best, A wonderful, wonderful Mother.
No one else so lovingly, patiently would Have tended our long baby years; With unceasing vigilance watched, day and night, To shield, lest some danger come near. No one else humbly, earnestly would have prayed For patience to teach us aright The laws of rectitude, virtue, and truth So pleasing in God's holy sight.
So, too, as we came to maturer estate Her sympathy, guidance, and love, As a sweet benediction, inspiring fell 'Round our lives, as a light from above. And though oft we were thoughtless, and grieved her, 'tis true, Perhaps caused her much sorrow and pain, Her faith never faltered, her love, still as true, Brought us back to our senses again.
Our Father, we thank Thee, for this Holy day, So different from any other; And sincerely our honor, and homage we pay, Each one, to his own dearest Mother. We ask Thee to bless her, and keep her from harm, That she may continue to be Our loving companion, inspiring us on To Heaven, to Glory, To Thee.
The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Volume XXIII AUGUST, 1936 No. 8
HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS From Factory To You—We Solicit Your Mail Orders
No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles..$.85 No. 88. Lt. Weight Men's and Ladies' New Style........................1.65 No. 89. Lt. Weight Men's and Ladies' New Style........................1.10 No. 85. Very Light Wt., Non-Run, Rayon, Men's and Ladies' New Style Only...................1.10 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back............................1.45 No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style, Double Back............................1.50 No. 86. Extra Fine Rayon and Double Combed Yarn. Better Than Part Wool. This Comes in Winter Weight Men's New Style Only......1.25 No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Ladies' New Style.......................85 No. 88. Extra Fine Silk-Rayon Double Combed Yarn. Ladies' New Style Only..................1.65 Short Sleeves, Ankle Length
We Mark Garments For 10c We Charge 10% Extra For Extra Sizes. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. Please Specify When Ordering Your Bust, Trunk and Length, Whether New or Old Style, and if Men's or Ladies'.
THIS IS ALSO THE PLACE TO OUTFIT THE MISSIONARY WITH ONE OF THOSE FAMOUS RAMBOULLETTE SUITS
This is one of our Specials Our Famous $21.75 Ramboullette Serge. Extra Pants, $4.00 Single or Double Breast. Extra Pants, $4.00
WE HAVE A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF HEAVY WORSTEDS AT
WE ALWAYS GIVE SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO THE MISSIONARY
14 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XXIII AUGUST, 1936 No. 8
CONTENTS
Help Me To Live......................Leona F. Forsgren 469 Frontispiece............................................ 470 The Radiance of a New Day................Joseph Quinney, Jr. 471 Mrs. Benson Takes a Hand....................Ivy W. Stone 472 Feet Above Clay........................Dorothy Clapp Robinson 477 Grandmother's Teapot....................Isabelle B. McKenzie 482 Nature and Mother's Love.................Hettie P. Fackrell 484 Happenings............................Annie Wells Cannon 485 Half a Million Dollars For a Bible............Ramona W. Cannon 486 Faith................................Claire S. Boyer 491 On the Trails of the Old Kaibab.............Elsie Chamberlain Carroll 492 Baby Rosebuds.........................Merling D. Clyde 496 Transplanted..........................Lella Marler Hoggan 497 Eliza Roxcy Snow Memorial Poem Contest........................ 505 In Memoriam..........................Elizabeth Spori Stowell 506 My Hooked Rag Rug....................Della Adams Leitner 506 The Portal of Life....................Ada Hurst Brown 507 Consolation..........................Susa B. Gudmund 509 Notes from the Field..................Julia A. F. Lund 510 Notes to the Field...................................... 514 Editorials: A Profitable Vacation................................ 515 Congratulations...................................... 516 Old-Fashioned Things.....................Viola Stone Card 516 Lesson Department....................................... 517 Magazine Drive......................................... 533 Birthday Present......................Alice Lee Eddy 535
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
Help Me To Live By Leona F. Forsgren
Lord, help me live that I may grow more kindly, My faith in Thee grow stronger day by day; Help me to be sincere and true and humble That Thou wilt hear my pleadings when I pray.
Help me, dear Lord, to hear and see things clearly, Refrain from judging where I can not see; Help me to ease the lonely heart that's aching, To comfort those who're deprived of sympathy.
Help me that I may share my neighbor's sorrow, And have a heart that feels another's woe; To know the healing comfort of forgiveness, To carry love and cheer where'er I go.
Help me to guard my erring tongue from evil, To speak no ill, nor e'er offensive be; To curb my temper e'en in greatest trial, From thoughts of malice, envy, or revenge be free.
For life's way, at its best, is long and lonely, So help me, Lord, to keep love in my soul, Help me to e'er hold kindness in my keeping, And set the "love of others" as my goal.
MT. TIMPANOGOS FROM AMERICAN FORK CANYON
The Relief Society Magazine VOL. XXIII AUGUST, 1936 No. 8
The Radiance of a New Day By Joseph Quinney, Jr.
THE dawn of this new day is radiant with hope, it brings me faith and the glow of love. The yester-years are closed, they are forever closed and passed beyond the power of my control, all I have of them are memories. But this new day is radiant, it gives me strength to reach its close with unfaltering step, yea, undaunted courage.
The dawn of this new day is radiant with the light of God, indeed, "That which is of God is light, and this light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day." So says the Seer of this new day. This holy light of truth belongs to God, it is the glory of His presence and the saving power of His beloved Son. It is the foundation of life and the song of our salvation. This new day is the light of truth.
The dawn of this new day is radiant with exalted thought. I look up to a power above to guide and give light, it's my day to pray, to think and meditate, to have God know my heart and song; it is the power of Him who loves and gives. This new day belongs to me, it is my day of thought.
The dawn of this new day is radiant with promise of new born truth, it's the holy torch that lights the way to eternal things and reveals to us God's great gifts, it gives us vision to see the good and the wisdom of the past and invites us into the portals of the just.
The dawn of this new day is radiant with the joy of everlasting friends. They are the priceless gifts of God, and are the ones who believe in us and we in them. They hold our gift of trust and in them reside the holy love of confidence. Every beautiful thought we know, every precious sentiment we feel shines out of them in radiance and the glow of light is with them. They are the jewels of the ages.
The dawn of this new day is radiant with the gift of gratitude. It glows with light and splendor. The message of this new day is cheerfulness, calm courage and good will. It tells us of the Christ. It bids us live without hate, envy and jealousy, and move forward in the sacred path of trust and radiate life with all that's fine, beautiful and soul satisfying.
The dawn of this new day is radiant with vision of the perfect gifts of God. "The path of truth, higher living, truer development in every phase of life is never shut from the individual until he closes it himself." Ah; this day of all great days has dawned, it is the golden day and belongs to God, to bring it to a close with all that's fine in life and to crown it with the glory of the Lord.
Mrs. Benson Takes a Hand In Which Pastry Wins Over "Pothooks" By Ivy W. Stone
MR. BENSON, affectionately known to his many friends as "The Judge" was still exploring the wilds of the Salmon River. As the children laughingly remarked he was enjoying a "wifeless honeymoon," riding over rapids in a rubber boat, hunting beavers and bears with movie camera, and generally roughing it in the wild region. But though it left Mrs. Benson alone at nights, she vehemently rejected the suggestions of the children that she board around with them until their father's return.
"Stuff and nonsense!" she cried indignantly. "Why should I be afraid to stay alone? Only guilty folks are afraid, and I have no troubled conscience. I shall enjoy the peace and quiet. Besides, I would have to come traipsing back to feed the canary, and water the plants and cover the chrysanthemums, and just what would poor old blind Samson do without me?"
This last statement was a true climax to her argument; for the six Benson children, in spite of marriage and responsibility, loved "Old Samson" indulgently.
"Well, be sure to lock your doors as soon as it gets dark, and keep the windows latched and draw the blinds before you turn on the lights. No use in inviting trouble, and this depression has made people desperate. Paste all our telephone numbers on the wall, so if you are molested—"
"Yes, yes," interrupted Mrs. Benson, chafing under the supervision of her too solicitous children. "I won't eat pie after midnight, and I won't go to the night club, and I'll go to bed at nine and get up at five."
THUS it happened that at seven o'clock on a dark, drizzling November night, Mrs. Benson stood at the window of her darkened parlor, with her hands cupped against the pane, and deliberately eavesdropped. She felt a sense of guilt, but reasoned that the cause justified the act. Out under the sturdy old oak tree that her Grandfather Pace had planted fully fifty years before, a young girl was waiting. Keen intuition told Mrs. Benson that something was wrong with this trysting place. For several nights now, the girl had come first; later a man had appeared, and about nine o'clock they had gone their separate ways. But tonight, Mrs. Benson was filled with apprehension. The girl carried a small handbag, and that meant flight, with the all too frequent clandestine marriage with years of regret to follow. Why couldn't young girls, like their older mothers, understand that men who meet girls secretly on dark, secluded corners mean only harm?
Unashamed, Mrs. Benson kept her hands cupped at the window. The young girl paced nervously back and forth under the protection offered by the wide spreading boughs. How could she stop this elopement? How could she save this girl? How could she expose this vulture? These questions raced through Mrs. Benson's brain with lightning rapidity, and then the great inspiration came. "Keep the house in darkness until your blinds are drawn," the children had admonished. Quickly she turned off the one light shining in the kitchen. Guided by a small flash light, she ran to the basement meter box and pulled the switch. Retracing her steps she turned on every globe in the house, and set the radio at top volume. The bed lights, the sink lights, the little clusters, over the fire place, the six bridge lamps, even both porch drops were included. Every blind was rolled to the top. Again she found the meter box and pushed up the switch. Instantly the house was flooded with brilliancy. Quickly Mrs. Benson ran through the illuminated rooms, swung wide the front door, and cried out loudly to the night, the darkness, and the little slip of a girl waiting under the old oak tree.
"Help! Fire! Murder! Police! Burglars! Robbers! Murder!"
She acted hysterical and ran straight to the astonished girl and grabbed her convulsively. "O come and help me—there are robbers in my home—I am a defenseless old woman—I dare not go in again—they will be alarmed when they see two of us! Hurry! My sterling silver! My diamond rings!"
She literally grabbed the astonished girl and pulled her up the walk, up the steps, into the house, just as the headlights of a slowly cruising car turned down the street from the highway. Once in the house, the raucous tones of the rampant radio drowned the guarded honking of the car that had stopped opposite the old oak tree.
The two women looked at each other for the first time. To her astonishment, Mrs. Benson recognized young Frances Pace, the eighteen year old daughter of her cousin Francis Pace, whose wife had died when this only child was born. The beautiful, slight, ultra feminine girl, with her large, expressive brown eyes, stood self accused before the older woman.
"Mercy Child!" Mrs. Benson raised her own voice to compete with the radio as she hastily drew the blinds, "The Good Lord must have sent you this way tonight. I never was so frightened in my life." Even above the radio, she caught the echo of a louder honking on that car.
"I'm running away, cousin Agnes," little Frances spoke in the calm even tones of a person who has burned all his bridges. "Father locked me in my room and said I couldn't come out until I promised to learn shorthand and spelling and typewriting. He says I have to become a good court reporter. So I put some things into my bag, climbed out the window, and I'm to meet Mr. Howard under your oak tree."
From a rare wisdom gained from rearing her own half dozen, Mrs. Benson did not scold or disapprove. She smiled encouragingly and Frances continued, "Mr. Howard's older than I am. But he's going to take me to Kansas City to live with his sister until he gets his divorce, and then we can be married. I never could be a good reporter, Cousin Agnes, but I could be a wonderful cook!"
"Reporter! Fiddlesticks!" Mrs. Benson's voice spoke her contempt for such a profession. "No normal girl wants to hang around a court house, taking the testimony of thieves and foreigners, and the airing of family linen, and the haranguing of lawyers and the evasions and lies and manipulations that make up the modern court room. The Judge gets fed up with it aplenty. But cooking is different. A woman can take pride in a golden brown loaf of bread, and a beautiful salad is a joy forever."
"Father says I have to be a reporter. He says it was disappointment enough to have his only child a girl, and that I must make amends for that short coming in every way possible. It's his ambition to have the court reporter of Lesson county a member of the Pace family for generations to come. He says his father was a pioneering sheriff, his grandfather the first judge, and he's been the court reporter for forty years. I have to carry on—"
"Reporters are becoming passe. Already they're like a horse and surrey on the city streets. The Judge says it's only a matter of sentiment that keeps your father there now. They don't want to hurt his feelings. Machines are taking the place of court reporters, and your father ought to be told."
"Father is teaching me himself. The good old dependable system of logical phonetics. It was invented by Pittman & Howard. 'p, b, t, d, ch, ja, k, f, v, ith, z, ish,' she chanted in a listless monotone. "The same sign above the line, on the line, and under the line means three different words. If you make a mark heavy it's one thing, and if it's light it's another. Half length is one word—full length another. There are just hundreds of vowels like "e, a, aw, awe, o, oo; we, wa, waw, way, wo, woo. It's worse than Chinese and Russian and Hindu, all mixed together. I hate it and I hate a typewriter, but I love to cook! I don't want to run away and get married either, but it seemed the only thing to do."
She opened the old-fashioned reticule that had belonged to her mother and dumped a toothbrush, wash cloth and her mother's portrait onto the table. "I guess I didn't bring much," she finished lamely.
"Frances Elsie Pace," Mrs. Benson faced the half defiant, half hysterical girl and spoke frankly. "If I will be a bulwark against your father; if I will make him let you be a normal girl, with ribbons and friends and parties; if you never have to write another one of those stupid pothooks; if he will promise to let you grow into a lovely womanly woman, instead of a poor makeshift for a son; will you, will you stay with me tonight, and forget the man you expected to meet?"
For answer the doorbell rang and the girl turned pallid. "O," she cried as the pent up tears coursed down her cheeks; "O, don't let him see me; don't let him in; I don't want to run away. I'd like to make a cake with pink icing and a lemon pie!"
Mrs. Benson pushed her into the bedroom, and stalked majestically toward the front door. Momentarily she longed for the little pearl handled pistol that had served so effectively a short while before. But whatever her inward fear, none of it was evident as she looked boldly at the man who waited on the porch.
"Good evening Madam." His manner was certainly suave. "I was expecting to meet a friend out under this tree, and she, that is, my friend isn't there. Did you, by any chance, see her?"
"Girls who meet men after dark are not in the habit of calling on me," answered Mrs. Benson stiffly. The door closed, and she breathed a silent prayer that she had not actually lied. Again she cupped her hands against the pane and peered into the night, until she heard the welcome purr of the disappearing car.
THEY slept together, and Mrs. Benson got out the pink silk spread and the hand embroidered sheets. They talked far into the night of foolish, girlish pranks and ideals; of the latest fashions and the new popular color "honey dew;" Mrs. Benson quoted recipes for cookies and cakes; told of her first wifely failures. Finally, at two in the morning, the youthful Frances Elsie Pace fell asleep, her face pillowed against an old waxen doll that Mrs. Benson had resurrected.
"I never had a beautiful big doll," she admitted sleepily. "I guess it looks silly to you, but I'd love to take this doll and dress it. Father says dolls are silly, and he bought me a typewriter when I was ten. "a, s, d, f, g; h, j, k, l,;" she muttered, her slender fingers tapping against the pillow in the typist's ritual until blessed relief came from the realms of Morpheus.
THE next morning Mrs. Benson called upon her cousin Francis Pace at an extremely early hour. She had always resented his dogmatic manner of sweeping all obstacles aside to achieve a desired end, but this treatment of his daughter was just too much.
"I want to see your daughter Elsie," she announced, purposely using the second name which had been her mother's.
Francis Pace, known as the state's finest, most accurate court stenographer bowed deeply, and bid his cousin be seated. "My daughter Frances is doing penance in her room. I locked her in last night, because she defied my orders. She refused to take her shorthand lesson."
"You'd better see if she's still there." Mrs. Benson could hardly repress a smile. Francis deserved to suffer intensively, for a while.
Something in her manner and voice told him that all was not right. He pulled a key from his pocket and with ramrod erectness walked sedately upstairs. Mrs. Benson heard his dignified tread over the carpeted floor to the unused bed, where the fleeing girl had pinned her brief note. Then came steps, hurried, tumbling, minus all dignity, as Francis, wildly waving the crumpled note, almost tumbled down the stairs.
"She's gone!" he cried dramatically. "My daughter has run away! My reputation is ruined! My ambitions are blighted! My aspirations are foiled! My shame will be broadcast over the land!" He dropped into his office chair and laid his head upon his desk. In wise silence Mrs. Benson let him suffer. Finally as his self pity waned slightly she asked:
"Now that you realize what will happen to you, suppose we decide what has happened to Elsie?"
"I'll track the villain to the ends of the earth. I'll contact the sheriffs in every state; I'll have him brought for trial under the Mann act; I'll——"
"And you can record the court proceedings for the entire case," added Mrs. Benson, wickedly cruel.
When she felt he had suffered enough she went on: "Thanks to the good old oak tree planted by our mutual grandfather, and the good Lord making me a meddlesome woman, your daughter is in my kitchen at this very minute, making cakes and pies and candy. She's probably burned her fingers, and forgotten the baking powder, and drowned her miller, and used every pot and pan in the cupboards, but she's having a wonderful time learning to cook."
"Learning to cook!" mocked Francis Pace, feeling his dignity being trampled in the dust by designing women. "Any moron can learn to cook. My child shall be a famous court reporter; she will learn to transcribe the testimony of aliens; she will attain a world record for typing; she will carry the name of Pace to glory—"
"Then you shouldn't have married a pretty, little clinging vine type of woman who breathed femininity. I fear you know more about law than you do about eugenics, Francis," she admonished. "Now I want your check for two hundred dollars," she added nonchalantly. "Elsie and I are going shopping this afternoon. She is to have a formal gown with gold slippers; a complete tennis outfit from balls to the swankiest suit the town boasts; we will look up a music teacher, and you can unlock the piano and have it tuned; she is to have an ivory bedroom suite, with pink silk drapes and bedspread," and a rose-colored rug, and she is to go to a coeducational college this next year. You've tampered with Nature long enough, Francis Pace. The good Lord meant her to be a woman, or He wouldn't have created her as one. Court reporter!' Mrs. Benson waved her hands to show her contempt. "And if I refuse your foolish request," began Francis the capable, who had never been crossed. ""She'd do better at her second attempt to run away," warned Mrs. Benson. "This gloomy old house, with your antique mahogany -and horsehair furniture is enough to turn any girl away from home. I believe you got it out of the ark! Elsie'll RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be the light of this home if you'll only let her; she'll be sunshine and moonbeams, and rippling laughter and happiness and youth; she'll keep you young and open the door to true living for you both. I gave her my word, she'd never have to write another pothook, and a Pace, you know Francis, never breaks his word." "Are you sure the two hundred dollars will be enough?" meekly asked Francis. He would show this assertive, dominating cousin of his that he could be a good loser. "While we're shopping you can box up her typewriter until she goes away to college; and incidentally, Francis, 'Pittman's Compendium of Phonetic Symbols' would make an excellent blaze in your parlor grate this evening. It's rather cool." HAT night Mrs. Benson did not need the admonition of her children to draw the blinds and retire early. Her feet ached; she had visited every smart shop and every furniture store in the entire town. She had even tried out the tennis racket in her own back yard. Mentally happy, she was physically exhausted, and was well tucked in bed when her daughters arrived. "I'm tired because I was up most of the night with a burglar," was the enigmatic information she grudgingly gave to their solicitous questionings. Feet Above Clay By Dorothy Clapp Robinson ON'T know why you insist on staying with them. I'm not going places to be stared at —or pitied." "Oh, Sam. They don't do that. There are too many like us for that. Besides I am a class leader." "Go on—go on. Far be it from me to suggest you quit before you are dropped as you were at the club." "Sam. How can. You say such a thing? I don't think—." "Good thing. It's more comfortable to not. All I have done the last three months is think." He pushed his plate away with sharp distaste and rose from the table. "I wish I was stupid so I couldn't think." Lucy followed him into their small sitting room. "I wish you wouldn't be bitter, dear." "Bitter."" Sam Peters gave a short hard laugh. He waved his arm to indicate the small room, the shabby furniture. "Twenty years of hoping and planning and working and it nets us—this. The trouble with you is you don't recognize a snub when you get one. Get this. I am coming home with work this evening or I aim not coming. Do you hear? I am not coming. No man is better than one who can't provide." "Sam—", but he was gone banging the door to behind him. Lucy stood paralyzed. It would do no good to talk to him. He wouldn't listen. He could not hear. With that hard glitter in his eye. Only once before in their twenty years of married life had she seen it. She had not forgotten the least detail of that time. She could do. There was nothing HERE is the dessert?" From the dining room came _ the question of her twelve and fourteen year old boys. "Never mind the dessert," Rita told her brothers. "You are lucky to get stew these days. Can the remarks about it, too. Here are your caps." The door slammed and they were gone. Lucy turned back to the dining room. Rita was so brusk, so— so brittle but her tone left no place for self pity. She looked up as her mother came into the room. "He is gone." "I heard. But after all, Moms, he is right. There is nothing gained by struggling. Weare poor white trash now and we might as well get acquainted with the idea." "Where's Annise? Come home for lunch?" "In on her bed." The mother went into the small stuffy room. Face down on her pillow lay her first-born. "Annise." No answer. "Annise, come eat, dear. Will be late to school." "Not going. Not ever again." The tones though muffled were bitter. Taking the girl by the shoulders Lucy turned her. "Annise, are you il]?"' "Please, Mother. The white hurt face turned again to the pillow. Lucy rose heavily. Didn't she You 478 ACK at the table she stopped again. In a high-chair by the window little crippled Marie sat, drumming endlessly with a spoon. Rita was hurridly piling the dishes together. "What happened to Annise?" Rita seemed about to not answer. Then she gave the knives and forks she held a vicious throw. They fell with a clatter among the dishes. "They gave her the air. The crowd I mean. Beth didn't invite her to her party and Jim is taking Enid Crowe." Suddenly Lucy's legs buckled under her. She groped for a chair. "But, Rita, she has counted on it so. This being her last year and all." She could not bring herself to say that this meant Annise's last contact with the old crowd. "She has never been left out before. She even made over her dress." "So what?" Rita gave her mother a swift glance as she passed taking the dishes to the kitchen. "And, of course," as she came back, "It would be that snooty Enid Jim is taking." Her tone sharpened. 'Ann is crazy. Catch me losing tears over a highhat crowd. As I said before we have come down in the world and we might as well get acquainted with the idea." "Rita," Lucy sat suddenly erect. "You are not still going—you are not—?"' "At least," Rita interrupted, "he doesn't spoil his face being democratic when he finds out where I live. Nor does he lift his eyebrows over my clothes." "No one in the ward does that." "Oh, no? Have it your own way. Mother, dear, you have a lot to learn. In the meantime I am going to Crows Nest with Buzz tonight." There was a knock at the kitchen door. Rita gave her mother a swift RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE kiss, snatched her books and sped out through the front. LUCY went to the door. "Oh, it's you, Mrs. Smith. Come in." "No." The other woman waited on the steps. "I just wanted to tell you I'll keep Marie while you go to meeting." "Meeting? Am not going." "You are not going? What happened?" "Nothing—and everything." Over the visitor's face came a look of alarm. She opened her mouth to speak, gulped, and then blurted out. "Don't you dare let it get you down, Lucy Peters. A year ago I wouldn't have dared to—to—take help. I took pride in my home and family. Look at us now. We gave up everything. I couldn't take it. Don't you dare do that. You go," she demanded fiercely "teach your class. Give Marie to me." "Alright," she answered slowly, "T will go this time but I will tell the President to get someone in my place. And I will appreciate your taking care of Marie. It takes me so long to walk when I have to wheel her." BAck in the sitting room Lucy dropped into a chair. The clock on the radio ticked loudly. Minutes were passing. Years were passing. In this small strange-feeling house the years came tumbling about her bringing with them the wreck of her hopes, her dreams, her sense of well-being. Life had hit them and as Mrs. Smith had said they couldn't take it. Why? She didn't know. Sam had done all a man could do. They had been lucky to trade their equity in their home for a larger equity in this small place. If they had to they could sell the radio as That's right, but I FEET ABOVE CLAY they had the other good furniture. People had been happy before radios were invented. Some people in small houses were happy and contented now. It must be her fault. Women were responsible for the spirit of their homes. If she had done her part right they could laugh at disappointments and heart aches. Why hadn't she? Rising she dressed mechanically and taking her magazine and papers left the house. Left the unwashed dishes. Left a tight-lipped girl face down on her pillow. When she got back they would still be there but would Sam? QUTSIDE the air was balmy. From the apple tree by the house a robin was pouring a song of gladness into a world that was all wrong. Yesterday there had been a rain. It had left the inside cool but outside there was a lingering of spring. Spring was the time for hope and beginnings. Some times it was for endings. What was the matter with her. Grandmother Jen- - sen had crossed the plains and lived through the cricket war when food was much more scarce than it was now. - But her husband hadn't threatened to run away or kill himself. As she neared the corner the bus passed. She was late but she couldn't afford to ride. A dime would buy a soup bone or vegetables to put in the soup. For no reason at all she laughed aloud. A woman passing stared at her. Let her stare. Why not? If Sam didn't come home tonight everyone would stare—and whisper. She turned to cross the street. Out this far they were muddy from the rain. She slipped and jerked suddenly to keep from falling. That started a throbbing in her head. 479 On the opposite side she stopped to wipe her shoes. What a mess. They reminded her of something. What was it? Mud? No, clay. Clay. That was it, feet of clay. That was what was wrong with her. Her feet were of clay. All her life they had kept her bound to earth. In her early married days she had tried to soar with Sam but her feet had clung to common things. When she had taken this class Sam had to help her. Of course, long since she had learned to study it by herself but with her family she had failed. She had kept house for them, and clothed and fed them but she had failed in her real work. She should have known what to do about Sam and his bitterness. She should have known how to ease a young girl's heartache. Women with feet of clay could only get work to help out. They could not break through the brittleness of a girl like Rita. Again she laughed. A great one she was to teach a lesson on Gifts of the Spirit. She had no gift of the spirit—only of the body. Today would be her last lesson. Tomorrow she would accept her feet of clay. A year from now she would be like the Smiths, ceasing to struggle, thankful to have someone else carry the burden. She walked spiritlessly with drooped head. Women were going in her direction, singly and in groups of two and three. They were the women she was to inspire, to point a way to better living. These women secure, serene, prosperous looking. Why had she taken the class in the first place? GHE was too late for officers' meeting. She took her seat near the head of the room. The president nodded and smiled. She nodded in reply but her eyes were bleak and 480 cold. How could these women sing so joyously? Their Sams had work and their feet were not of clay. Clay gets cracked and hard and ugly. Then it was time for the lesson. Lucy rose slowly. 'Dear Lord," she prayed, "help me to put this over. Help me to forget Sam and my own limitations." She laid her book and notes on the table and looked over the upturned faces. There they were, eager, expectant. For a few moments she was panicky, stumbling aimlessly about. Then slowly within her something came to her assistance, directing her thoughts, guiding her questions. It was as if while that Something went on with the lesson Lucy Peters stood at the side looking on. There was Mrs. Summers, for instance, wrapped about in a cloak of learning. Why wasn't she teaching the class? Lucy Peters turned her eyes quickly away and met the adoring ones of little Mrs. Henry. Mrs. Henry usually watched her but today her expression was different. Was it pity? No, not from Mrs. Henry. Lucy remembered when this woman had first entered her class. Odd, rather old-fashioned, slightly dull, it had seemed there was so little could be done about her. And she had been so eager to talk. Now her expressions were more faltering but consistent. Her eyes were brighter but not bright enough. She too had feet of clay. The discussion finished. As she sat down Lucy heard a deep sigh from the class. The President rose. "Surely after this lesson it will be easy for us to rise to our feet and express our thanks and acknowledge—" HEN Lucy couldn't stand it any longer. She rose unsteadily and went outside. On the cement step RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE she sat down. She couldn't go home yet. Rita would be there and Annise, but Sam. Anyway she must speak to the president. Through the slightly raised window the murmur of voices reached her. She heard one then another. Some one was quoting. She tried to catch the thought but it was gone. Then the meeting time was over and Mrs. Henry was sitting beside her. "Did you get sick?" "Yes—no. That is, I felt faint." "You're sick. I know you are." The woman's head nodded in affirmation of her own judgment. "T knew it when you first came in." Others passed. They stopped to say how much they had enjoyed the lesson. Still the President didn't come. "You make something alive and beautiful about each lesson,' she looked up to see Mrs. Summers' standing beside her. "I needed help so much today."' She passed on. Lucy's eyes widened in unbelief. Mrs. Summers needing help? She was so self sufficient. Then Lucy remembered hearing that troubles are not all the same, but all have them. She became aware that the woman beside her was talking. "seems like I just learned to live since I've been in your class." SUDDENLY Lucy was running toward home. She could not endure the suspense another minute. She had made a success of the class after all. She must DO something with her home. Men didn't run away from HOMES. Girls in HOMES did not turn brittle and go to places like Crows Nest. When home was only a block away she stopped, breathing hard. If only Sam wouldn't be there yet. No, if he would be there. What DID she. Mean? She ran into the street. FEET ABOVE CLAY There was a sudden loud screeching of brakes. Lucy was on the ground with a sharp pain in her hip. People were bending over her. "T couldn't help it," she heard a voice saying, "she ran right in front of the truck." "Yes," another added, 'she was running with her head down." She opened her eyes and looked about slowly. Yes, they could help her up. No, she wasn't hurt—much. She clung to the supporting hands. "Lucy." She turned her head. Her senses reeled. Arms she knew and loved went about her. She fainted. LUCY'S eyes fluttered open. A roomful of faces were swimming crazily about her. She wished they would quit whirling but she could not speak to tell them so for something kept tagging at her mind confusing her. It was gentle and pleasant but persistent. It was something she must remember. It would help her. The faces blurred and her eyes closed. Through an open window came the murmur of voices passing on the street. That was it. A voice through the open window, this afternoon, quoting. "—to build faith. To strengthen morals. To open doors of learning—." She could sleep now. 481 a HEN Lucy Peters opened her eyes again she was fully conscious. Above her were the faces of her family, white and waiting. Panic swept over her. She tried to rise from the bed. "Easy." She turned and a sigh of unutterable relief escaped her. "Sam. You did come back." His lips touched her forehead as they had not done for many months. They were all there, her precious ones. Rita, and Annise was looking only troubled not heart broken. - "Muvver," little Marie cooed, 'us loves you." Lucy closed her eyes quickly. Her hand groped and found Sam's. "I'm glad. I'm glad," she whispered. "I have just discovered I can do it." "Do what?" They looked at each other. Had the shock touched her head? "Do my work. Make a home for you all. A real home I mean." "Who said you couldn't?" Rita demanded. "You've been making a pretty snappy job if you ask me. We always knew that but we have discovered several other things this last hour." Lucy scarcely heard her. "T can do it," she said softly. "I can do it because my feet are not in clay. My trying has lifted them above it as we were promised it would. My feet are above clay." "You telling us?" Rita demanded. Grandmother's Teapot By Isabelle B. McKenzie Scene 1 (Martha Wells enters, throws herself into a chair, fanning herself with her apron.) Martha: Oh dear, I am so hot and tired! How glad I am that the canning and pickling are over for another year! It does seem so foolish to peel so many tiny onions, when the stores offer such attractive pickles and preserves. (Sighs) But, then, my family always like Mother's things best. (Knock at door. Martha admits the magazine agent.) Martha: Good afternoon, Sister McKenzie. It's nice of you to stop in. Sit down. Agent: Would you like to subscribe for our Relief Society Magazine? Martha: I took it for years, and I always enjoyed it, but I just can't take it this year. I'm sorry. (Exit agent.) Martha: (Talking to herself) I just won't go to Relief Society when I haven't an idea what the lesson is about. I always used to be prepared, but last year I felt downright silly, for I never had a chance to get the lesson. I thought surely I'd be able to take it this year, but—(knock at door) Oh, hello Sister Ryberg. Sister Ryberg: Why Sister Wells, aren't you ready? The president wants all officers and visiting teachers to go early for special instructions before the regular meeting. Martha: No, I will not be able to go today. Please have me excused. Sister Ryberg: It is still early. I will wait for you. I picked up the magazine before I left home, and found such a nice poem. It always makes me think of my dear mother's quilts. Listen, I'll read it to you. (Reads poem) Don't you love poetry? There are always so many good poems in each number. Aren't you going to get ready? Martha: No, not today. I can't go, so there is no use waiting. Another time, maybe. Sister Ryberg: I am sorry. Well, I'll try to drop in and tell you about the meeting. Goodbye. ( Exit.) (Martha closes the door then stands at the side of the window looking down the street. ) Martha: There they come in twos and threes, all going to meeting. I'll just stand back so they won't see me. There go Ann Harris and Sarah Hayes, the quilters, President Cameron with her counsellors, went some time ago. There's Sister Morris and Sister Pratt the art teachers. I bet they have a lot of new ideas. There's Sister Webber and Grant, they are the ones who show you how to make new clothes out of old ones. There's Sister Cannon, all primed with splendid social welfare plans. I guess Velma will give the lesson today. I love her lessons. (Sighs deeply) Musical director, chorister, gay, laughing. Marjorie Stewart, all will be there but me! Oh, dear. (Puts apron to eyes and cries.) (Enter Margaret—kneels by her mother's side, arms around her.) Margaret: Mother, darling, what is the matter? What has happened? Have you had bad news? Tell me, quick. GRANDMOTHER'S TEAPOT (Martha sobs quietly for a few minutes, then dries her eyes.) Martha: No dear, I just feel a little blue today. Indulging in a bit of foolish self-pity, I guess. All the neighbors have gone to Relief Society Meeting, and I felt a little lonely. Margaret: Why didn't you go? You always like the first meeting. It looks as if your pickles are all finished. Martha: Well, I don't intend to go any more. That's why. Margaret: Why not? For mercy's sake what reason have you? Has some one hurt your feelings? Martha: I can't keep up with the lessons unless I have the magazine, and I simply can't afford it this year. Will is going to need so much more at the U, and Beth can't go to High School in the same old made overs she wore at grade school. What with your father only working half-time and the twins forever kicking through a pair of shoes, I just can't manage a whole dollar for the magazine. Margaret: (Kissing her) Poor little mother. It always has to come out of your life! How I wish Tom had a better job so I could help you! Maybe things will be better soon. Something lovely may be just around the corner. Martha: You're such a comfort, honey. How foolish I am! Really I am the most fortunate of women, with such a kind husband and such a wonderful family. Margaret, I believe while you are here to hand me the things from the high shelves, I'll clean the pantry shelves. Margaret: That's a fine idea. I'd like to help. Where's an apron? (Action bringing in dishes, and washing them.) Martha: Margaret, I am awfully proud of Will's fine record at 483 school. He's such a steady boy. Our children are dears—Beth is getting sweeter every day. And when I look across the street and see Sister Evan's little Paul sitting their in his wheel chair, I feel truly grateful that our twins can wear out their shoes so fast. I'm ashamed of my grumbling. Margaret: You know dear, we truly have a great many blessings. Remember the dear old hymn you taught me long ago? (She begins to hum "Count Your Blessings" and both sing a verse as they work.) Margaret: (Holding up a teapot.) Mother, you have so many useless things to clutter up this shelf. Now here is Grandmother's old teapot. It's cracked and you never can use it again. Shan't I throw it away? Martha: (Taking it from her and turning it lovingly in her hands.) No, no, I can see my dear mother as she poured tea from this old pot for her friends. Then when she accepted the word of wisdom and stopped drinking tea, she found a new use for the old teapot. The egg money and bits of extra change were dropped into it. Many a time Mother has gone to the old teapot when I wanted some small luxury. How her sweet kind face beamed with pleasure at being able to share her little treasure with me. Margaret: Isn't that like Grandmother? She was always so kind, so thoughtful! Martha: Margaret, I've just thought of a use for that teapot! No, don't ask me! It's a secret. It is too dear to be cast aside. Put it back in the pantry—but not on the highest shelf. Curtain 484 Scene 2—One Year Later (Martha bustling about, gathering hat, coat, gloves, purse, preparatory to going out. Margaret enters.) Margaret: Going someplace, mother? Martha: Yes, I'm just rushing to get ready for Relief Society meeting. This is the first meeting, you know. Margaret: Oh, mother darling, I did so hope to have the money for your magazine today. But new babies come high these days. ( Sighs.). Martha: Never mind, my dear. (Gets the teapot and empties it on table.) There, what do you think of that. Margaret: Why mother, what a pile of dimes! Where did you get them? Martha: Last year, when we came upon that old teapot the thought came to me that it could be used RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as a thrift pot, just as your grandmother used it. A dime each week was never missed, and yet in a year the store has grown steadily. Five dollars and twenty cents, and all my Relief Society problems are solved for the year. I have three dollars for the visiting teachers, that is 25c a month,—a dollar for the magazine,—50 cents for stake dues,—and 70 cents for materials for the ward bazaar—all saved without working a hardship on any one. (As she talks she piles the dimes before her.) Margaret: (Throwing her arms around her mother.) Wonderful mother! No one else on earth would have thought of such a scheme, but it's a dandy! I'm going right straight home and start a thrift pot of my own! Three cheers for Granny's old teapot. Curtain NATURE AND MOTHER'S LOVE By Hettie P. Fackrell MY attention was drawn one spring morning to the sweet notes of a songbird, nestled on the limb of a shade tree near the lawn. How perfectly did the little thing warble the clear sweet notes? No dearer was the sweet song than were the gentle words of my mother. A few steps farther, in one corner of the perennial row, was a creamy narcissus, with its waxen petals just opening to the welcoming rays of the warm morning sun. No purer was the blooming beauty than were the sweet thoughts of my mother. On down the row, just a few steps farther were the soft, sweet petals of a dainty pink rose-bud, just blooming and as I touched them to my lips, they were like the sweet kiss of my mother. The fragrance of the delicate lavender lilac, near my window, lingers as my darling mother's teachings linger in my memory. At the end of the row, was a mass of blooming beauty, "T'was the fragrant white carnation. They are a symbol of her purity and love. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon AUGUST—Like the richness of a summer day is the hightide of life. HE bookshops and magazine racks are full of light reading for the vacationist for summertime is the harvest for the novelist and short story writer. MARY ROBERTS RINEHART in her latest book, "The Doctor", is more sincere and less imaginative than usual. The book continues among the best sellers. NAOMI JACOB in her new novel "The Founder of the House," gives a fine portrayal of Jewish family life and traditions, also a vivid picture of Paris and gay Vienna during the early part of the last century. MARY MASTERS NEEDHAM and Sarah M. Cleghorn have each contributed interesting biographies to recent publications— "Tomorrow to Fresh Fields," and "Threescore," are the titles. MARGARET MITCHELL'S first novel—''Gone With the Wind', was the choice of the Book-of-the-Month Club for July. It has an Atlanta background highly colored with Civil War incidents. LANCHE KENDALL McKEY won the contest prize with her pageant for the Ogden pioneer celebration. UEEN MARY received the Royal Victorian Order—Dame Grand Cross, from her son Edward VIII on his 42nd birthday. DOROTHY H. EUSTIS was given a gold medal by the National Institute of Social Sciences for distinguished service rendered to humanity. MBs: ISABEL BLUME and Mrs. M. Adere are the only women members of the Belgian chamber of deputies. Miss MAUD YOUNGER, prominent social, political and suffrage worker, Dame Henrietta Barnett, noted English welfare worker, Johyna Howland, veteran actress, and Julia Field, widow of Eugene Field, the poet were among the notables who died recently. ARINA, Duchess of Kent, is the arbiter of fashion in English court circles. At present she has a flair for ostrich feathers on her hats. SALLY STEARNS, 21, coxswain of the Rollins College crew, led her rowers to victory over the Manhatten crew. The husky fellows were somewhat chagrinned to be beaten by a girl. HELEN JACOBS, American tennis champion was again winner this year at Wimbledon both in the finals and semi-finals. ETTY ROBINSON of Chicago, and 15 other American girls expect to enter the Olympic games at Berlin this summer. There are six events for women—track, hurdles, javelin and discus throws, 4x100 meter relay and high jump. Half a Million Dollars For a Bible By Ramona W. Cannon museum appears! So proper and catalogued and probably boring! But once break through its musty outer crust and reach its inner consciousness, and you uncover a past world still pulsating with the drama and romance of life. Think of the British Museum in London. What an intimate record of loves and hates, of defeats and victories its mighty heart contains! There lies the mute evidence of some of the greatest struggles in which mankind has engaged through all history. To the newcomer the scenes of such action become warm and fresh. A miracle occurs and names seem to clothe themselves with flesh and heart and intellect. CONSIDER the amazing exhibit of Bibles, great and small, written in nearly all languages, including Latin shorthand! Just books? No. They represent one of the greatest evolutions of human freedom that the world has known. Once a person has seen these volumes and understood at what cost they were given to our fathers, and what love existed in the hearts of those who gave them, he will thenceforward feel for his modern easily purchased Bible a little more reverence—a little more gratitude. Let us examine a few of these many cases filled with Bible exhibits.
As a preliminary, it is interesting to see the clay tablets in the Egyptian or the Babylonian room. About 1400 B. C. As the Children of Israel wandered through the Wilderness and settled in the Promised Land, they undoubtedly made some rough notes of their experiences on clay tablets baked in the sun. Previous to that time, the well-disciplined minds of their leaders had retained in memory the history of their fathers and had passed it on from generation to generation. The clay tablets were the first method of recording. Here they are, hard and smooth, with picture writings cut clearly into them. From such notes as these, and from the long memories of the learned, the first Old Testament manuscripts were probably written.
While there are none of these very earliest documents in existence, it is quite certain that they were written on the finer skins of goats or sheep, prepared for the purpose. Our present book form was unknown. The ancient parchments were attached to two rollers. Here is a show case containing a wonderful example, a large leather scroll that must be two feet high. It is rolled around two enormous spools. This is the Pentateuch (first five books of the Old Testament), written in Hebrew. Seventy-five strips of leather have been glued together, and on these the text is written in columns, in large characters, forty-two lines to the column. The beginning is on the right hand side. As the student finished reading a column, he would roll it around the roller to the right, and as with a typewriter ribbon, unroll one or two or three columns from the left side spool, as suited his convenience. The rollers could of course stand close together or far apart. What a task to copy such manuscripts by hand, word for word! And how very proud the owner of such a roll must have been!
HALF A MILLION DOLLARS FOR A BIBLE
One wonders if a private individual ever owned an entire Bible, for these five books alone require a great deal of space.
NOT until more than a hundred years after Christ did the modern book form, with individual pages bound together, come into use. This book form was called a codex, and was much easier to care for and use than the rolls. Only recently torn fragments of the oldest codex known were discovered and put on display by the British Museum. They date from about 150 A. D. And are bits of a fifth Gospel of the New Testament, resembling John more closely than the other Gospels. This work was done on papyrus, which looks like splintered brown bark. One bit, translated from the Greek, reads: "They bade the multitude to carry together the stones and stone him. And the rulers laid their hands on him that they might take him and hand him over to the multitude, and they could not take him because the hour of his betrayal was not come." Then follows the coming of a leper to Jesus, and Jesus' healing of him.
HERE is a strange looking manuscript, written in Greek uncials, in the sixth century. In the ninth century, some one had partly washed out this writing, and had written the Gospel of St. Luke across the pages at right angles to the original characters. This is called a palimpsest manuscript. There are many other examples of this method of cross writing in the Museum. Quite surprising is one tiny volume written on thin vellum pages measuring only three and one-half by two and one-half inches. This is a version of the Apocalypse in Coptic, done as early as the fifth century. One version of the Acts, Epistles, and Apocalypse, in Greek, was written by the monk Andreas, who was engaged on it for three years.
ANOTHER of the famous Bibles is the Lindisfarne text written at the end of the seventh century by the Bishop of Lindisfarne, Ireland. This brings us to the beginning of that wonderful art of illuminating manuscripts. The book is freely ornamented in the finest style of Anglo-Celtic art. The Celtic mind is likely to prefer fancy to reality, and that is the case here. Animal decorations are used, but only the head is left recognizable. Everything else is twisted out of any kind of semblance. This work was drawn with pen and ink in fine parallel lines that were filled in with water colors. Such little anachronisms as Matthew seated reading a modern book of Scriptures did not trouble anyone.
There are many cases filled with the wonderful illuminated manuscripts that followed. What infinite patience and toil the monks put into the making of these volumes! And what beauty they achieved! One draws aside the protecting green curtain and looks through the glass case at the red and russet and blue flowers and scrolls, and the generous sprinkling of tiny gold leaves and dots. They are beautifully rhythmic in design, and of the most delicate workmanship. One moves one's head from side to side to see the gilded parts light up and grow rich and beautiful and warm with the ever changing glow.
Some of the pages are composed almost entirely of the wide floral borders with perhaps a small picture of a Scriptural scene, and a very little bit of a psalm or another text printed on the page. There are some enormously large illuminated books with great pictures on them. The colors are lovely, but the figures not so good. They lack proportion, grace and ease. Once could remain in this room for hours and be fascinated with the designs of these works of art. No sooner have you fallen in love with one than you turn to another which seems even more enthralling.
But there are many other Bibles yet to see. Not the least interesting book is a Latin Psalter in Tironian notes, early tenth century, acquired in Reims. These were shorthand characters invented by Marcus Tullius Tiro, a freed slave of Cicero, who lived in the first century before Christ. After a thousand years these notes were still in use. And over here are the four Gospels written in the Caroline hand, developed under Charlemagne. This superseded the national hands of England, Spain, and Italy, and became the ancestor of the handwriting used today.
We must recall that all the early Bibles were in Latin, Greek, or some other foreign language. There were many Norman-French Bibles circulating also before English Bibles were available. The standard text was the Latin Vulgate prepared by St. Jerome in 405. The earliest attempt to tell the Bible story in the native English (Anglo-Saxon) tongue was that of Caedmon, the cowherd of Whitby, who lived in the late seventh century. Bede tells us that Caedmon could not sing, and went to the stables in grief when his brethren sang at the feasts. Then One appeared to him in a dream and said, "Caedmon, sing something for Me." The cowherd replied that he could not sing, but was told, "Yet thou canst sing something for Me." Caedmon asked, "What should I sing?" The reply came, "Sing the beginning of created things." And Caedmon sang to the glory of the Creator, something like this: "Now ought we to praise the Author of the Heavenly Kingdom." One original manuscript exists, dating from the end of the tenth century, and is now at Oxford.
We are told that in A. D. 735 the Venerable Bede translated the Gospel of St. John, and fought off death until with his last feeble breath, he had dictated the final words to his anxious scribe.
IN the Museum is a Latin copy of the Psalms dating from the ninth century with a word-for-word Anglo-Saxon translation written between the lines. Also a priest of the tenth century inserted an English interlinear translation of the Lindisfarne Gospels. This occurred nearly three centuries after the original Latin writing. Alfred the Great and Aelfric the Grammarian gave us some paraphrases and translations into Anglo-Saxon, which may be seen in the Museum. In Wessex, in the eleventh century, an unknown author wrote the first independent version of the Gospels in old English. One of the six remaining copies of this work is also on display at the British Museum.
THE first complete Bible in English was given to the people by John Wycliffe, who said, "The sacred Scriptures are the property of the people, and one which no one should be allowed to wrest from them." However, he met with the bitterest persecution for his liberal ideas. He recognized the abuses in the Church, and felt that a knowledge of God's word would help people to understand truth for themselves, and thus would bring about reform. Naturally this attitude did not enhance his popularity with those in power. It was charged that Wycliffe "had made the Bible common to laymen and even to women," so that the pearl of the Gospel was trodden under foot of swine." Archbishop Arundel complained to the Pope of "that pestilent wretch, John Wycliffe, the son of the old Serpent, the forerunner of AntiChrist, who had completed his iniquity by inventing a new translation of the Scriptures."
In spite of the opposition to this new Bible written in plain simple language for the understanding of plain folk, a great many copies of it were made. The price was necessarily high, about $200.00 a copy, but Wycliffe's "poor priests" helped to see that it was made available to the poor. Some might give a load of hay for the privilege of reading a copy for a certain period each day. A woman named Alice Collins used to come to gatherings and recite the Ten Commandments and other parts she had learned by heart. In the preface to this Bible was written, "God grant us to ken and to keep well Holie Writ, and to suffer joiefulli some paine for it at the laste." These words were indeed prophetic, for many of the readers of this Wycliffe Bible were burned with their copies round their necks. The persecuted Wycliffe himself expected to die as a martyr, and apparently would have done so, had not a natural death intervened. A petition was sent to the Pope asking him to have Wycliffe's body removed from consecrated ground and buried in a dung heap. This was not done, but forty years later, his body was burned and the ashes scattered on the river Swift which ran near his church in Lutterworth.
Many of the Wycliffe Bibles were beautifully decorated with borders and elaborate capital letters at the beginning of Chapters. One handsome copy in the Museum was owned by Edward III's son, the Duke of Gloucester.
A HUNDRED years later came the printed Bible versions of Tyndale, master of seven languages. He, too, suffered for his determination to "make the boy that drives the plough in England to know more of Scripture than the Pope does." He had to flee from England and work secretly in Germany. When his Bibles appeared, a torrent of bitterness and accusation was loosed against Tyndale. Such ridiculous arguments were used as these: If a baker should read, "A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump" he would use too little yeast, and thus injure people's health. And if a simple man should read, "If thine eye offend thee, pluck it out," he would pluck out his eyes, and the realm would be full of blind men. Tyndale was cast into prison where he pleaded for a warmer cap and coat, since he suffered from a perpetual cold, which was much increased by his "chill cell." In 1536 he was strangled at the stake, and burned to ashes. With his last breath he prayed, "Lord, open the King of England's eyes."
There are many of these Tyndale Bibles in the Museum, and other printed versions as well, in a great diversity of tongues. The early print is beautifully clear and uniform.
THERE are other Bibles great and small, in infinite variety, some of them in polyglot form, that is, with the text written in parallel columns in several different languages.
WE must give a word to the Great Bible. Three years after Tyndale's dying prayer, an English Bible stood in every parish church. The frontispiece design by Holbein is very elaborate. The Almighty, with outstretched arms, is in the clouds. Two scrolls with inscriptions proceed out of His mouth, to left and right. We see King Henry VIII seated on his throne, holding in each hand a Bible, and Cranmer and Cromwell distributing Bibles to priests and laymen. Henry had broken with the Pope, and one of his reforms was to popularize the Bible, under the influence of Thomas Cromwell who published the books. Each parish priest was obligated to have one copy in his home and another in his church. The low purchase fee of ten shillings for the Bible, unbound, and twelve for a bound copy, was fixed. The King "marvelled greatly" when he learned that his command had not been fulfilled in certain churches. He immediately fixed a fine of forty shillings a month on any church which failed to comply with his order. It was proclaimed that the King's loving subjects should have and use said Bibles "humbly, meekly, reverently, and obediently." They were not to read them with "loud and high voices." The people would gather round these large Bibles chained to a lectern, or reading desk, and patiently wait their turn. Cromwell, himself, was later executed.
THE real pride of the British Museum is probably its recent acquisition of the Codex Sinaiticus, the oldest version of the New Testament known, dating from the middle of the 4th century. This was purchased from the Russian Government for half a million dollars. Naturally, one wonders why such a sum should be expended for an incomplete text of our Scriptures, with so many copies already in existence. So one learns what is possible about these modest looking sheets of fine vellum, with four columns of Greek uncials to a page.
The German scholar, Tischendorf, who discovered this manuscript in the Monastery of St. Catherine, on Mt. Sinai, was himself a Crusader in the cause of truth. His battle was against the skeptics, who were accumulating evidence and criticism to indicate the Gospels were not written until at least the fourth century after Christ. John's Gospel has been assailed more frequently than the other three. Tischendorf spent years of research gathering evidence of the authenticity of the Gospels. His purpose was only to build up his readers "in their most holy faith." Determination, zeal, scholarship and faith the brilliant young man possessed, but all of these combined could not accomplish his end without a great deal of money as well. He was granted seventy-five dollars by the German Minister of Public Worship and practically without purse or scrip set out on his great adventure. Partly he supported himself by his pen while he worked. Partly he was helped by men who had faith in him.
The story of his accidental discovery of 129 pages of the Sinaitic Manuscript in a wastebasket ready to be consigned to the flames is most absorbing. Unfortunately, part of the sheets had already been burned. He obtained forty-three of these leaves as a gift, but could not acquire the rest, when the monks learned that value was attached to them. Years of patient diplomacy were required before he received the remaining sheets. They were presented, through him, to the Russian Government by the Monastery, and a certain sum was given to the Monastery in return. The British Government acquired the Codex in 1933.
The real value of this book is in the evidence it gives that the Gospels did arise in the apostolic period. This Codex is helpful in establishing a belief of Tischendorf's, which is difficult to dispute, that the Gospels were in actual use in the Church by the end of the first century. The Codex Sinaiticus contains about half of the Old Testament, the New Testament entire, and two uncanonical works, one of them "The Shepherds of Hermas," a satire on the abuses that existed in the early church. This is enlightening to the student of church history.
Like other martyrs to truth, Tischendorf faced hardship, privation, and slander. But his contributions are of the greatest value. They have "neutralized to every unprejudiced mind" the doubts raised by critics "as to the genuineness of St. John's Gospel" Comments his translator. After one of Tischendorf's addresses, a German editor wrote of him: "As a critic he is on ground on which he has no rival. When history speaks, it is the duty of philosophy to be silent."
"I would rather have discovered this Sinaitic manuscript than the Koh-i-noor (great diamond) of the Queen of England," said one eminent scholar. And the opinion of the British Government is, "If the transfer of the Codex Sinaiticus from Russia to London will help to stimulate the British people to a renewed personal, individual, and family interest in the teaching of God's word, it will be worth £100,000 many times over."
FAITH By Claire S. Boyer
There are some steps I take that need His hand— Passing from sorrow to a safer peace, Stepping from danger to a sure release, Then I can yield myself and understand.
There are some moments when I need His smile— When I turn not again to baser ways, When I fulfill my sacrificial days, Then I can raise my eyes to Him the while:
But most I want to need Him every hour, To take His hand, to see His smile divine, To feel His benefice, to sense His power, To know myself a part of His Design;
Then shall He be my Great Eternal Friend The Comrade of my questing to the end.
On the Trails of the Old Kaibab By Elsie Chamberlain Carroll
CHAPTER IV
FOR a time Steve watched Helen's riding critically. Soon she forgot herself in enjoyment of her surroundings. How far away were the feelings of futility and defeat with which she had started on this journey. Already she was a new person, once again alert and eager for life.
"You're not such a tenderfoot as I expected," Steve told her. "You'll make it O. K. You almost ride as if you'd been born to the saddle. Some people couldn't learn to ride in a million years. Others take to it like ducks to water. You like it, don't you?"
"But I haven't ridden much." How surprised he would be if she should say, "I ought to be a good rider; my father was a cowboy."
As they neared the edge of the forest, Steve pointed out the young aviator's camp. "Shall we call on Pete? There's his plane by the edge of the trees. Bernice was right. It doesn't seem to be much worse for his accident."
They found the young flier, his head bandaged, out by the plane, mending the fabric.
"How are you and Pegasus this morning?" Steve asked.
"Both of us rarin' to go."
"Pegasus," said Helen after the formality of introduction. "That's a unique name. Sometime I'm coming to see how much better your winged steed is than this lovely horse of Mr. Heyden's."
"We'll be waiting for you," Pete said as his visitors departed.
They left the road and followed a trail through the trees. Soon it became steep and rugged.
"There's another mile or two of climb before the first glimpse of the canyon," Steve said. "Are you tired?"
"Not at all. It's glorious."
Helen smiled to herself as Steve talked of the country. He had the same air of proprietorship he had laughed at in Uncle Billy. Wood Russell had it, too, though he also had poked fun at the old scout. But she didn't blame them for loving it; she was beginning to feel something of the same spirit herself. After all, it was her country too. Even though she had never seen it before.
The trail became steeper. Once Maje's foot slipped on a loose rock. With a swift, sure movement Steve caught Helen and kept her from falling. She was trembling, but denied that she was frightened and insisted that they go on. They rode more slowly after that, and Steve kept one hand on Maje's bridle to guide him around the great boulders. How quick and sure his arm had caught her, and how concerned his dark eyes had been. Bernice Hawley, Helen understood, could easily care for a man like Steve.
"We really ought to have taken the road," he said when the trail became even steeper. "But I did want you to see the canyon first from a point that nothing but a narrow trail leads to. Do you feel nervous about going on? We could cross over to the road yet."
"No. I'm fine, and I want to learn to ride."
AT last they reached the top. Then suddenly they came to the canyon rim. "Oh!" That one exclamation and Helen gazed speechless. Her eyes blurred. The sight overwhelmed her. The crust of the brown earth had suddenly opened to an enchanting inner world. Over it all stretched the serene blue of the sky, splashed with colored clouds, shifting, changing, glowing. She was transfigured. Steve watched her exultingly. He was proud of the canyon. The lights and shadows had seldom been finer. It was almost as if the old monarch were posing a bit for his guest.
"Well, what do you think of him?" he finally asked, dismounting and helping her.
For a moment she stood without answering. Then she turned and walked a little distance from the brink. "I can't stand any more now." There was a break in her voice. "I'm drunk."
Steve smiled appreciatively. He led the horses to a cedar tree and secured them. "Suppose we rest here awhile and eat our lunch. Then we can ride along the rim to some of the other points and take the road back." He removed the saddles and spread the saddle blankets under a tree.
"Seeing that," Helen waved toward the canyon, "makes everything else seem insignificant. Doesn't it? We and our little worries don't even seem pin-points in the great scheme of things."
"Wait until you stand on Bright Angel Point some night when it's raining. It's when the canyon's filled with black clouds and zigzags of lightning and bellowing thunder—that's when you feel smaller than a speck."
IT was late afternoon before they started back to the Park. As they came down the road through the thick trees, Steve suddenly stopped. He peered through the timber ahead. Helen heard horses' hoofs, and a few seconds later glimpsed a wide brimmed hat. Steve seized her bridle and quickly guided their two horses behind a huge boulder into a thick clump of trees. He gave a sign for silence. Presently, two horsemen passed. Helen caught sight only of the wide hat on the dark head of one rider, and the red whiskered face of the other. She wondered at Steve's excitement.
"I must find out for sure who those fellows are," he said. "I believe one is Lon Dean, the Indian boy I left on my ranch watching my calves. Will you wait here? I want to see which direction they go when they reach the forks."
What could it mean? Steve's face was grim—almost old—as he wheeled his horse and followed them. As Helen waited, she recalled Uncle Billy's unfinished story. Now it seemed remote, more like fiction than reality. Could it be that the old scout really felt that Tough Heyden might have murdered her father? If that were true—Steve was the son of her father's murderer! She wouldn't permit such thoughts to spoil her day.
THERE was a clatter of hoofs on the rocky road. She thought it was Steve and rode back to the trail. But the rider was coming from the opposite direction. It was Mr. Hawley. As he drew in his reins she realized that her dislike for him increased each time they met.
"Well, well, if it isn't our little new friend, Mrs. Latimer. I didn't anticipate such a pleasure as meeting a charming woman away out here. Are you lost?"
In spite of the note of lightness in his words, Helen perceived that he was nervous and excited. "I've been for my first look at the Grand Canyon," she told him.
His eyes kept shifting from her face back over the road, and he was evidently listening. "That's Steve Heyden's horse, isn't it? Did he come with you?"
"Yes." Helen thought he tried to blink out the concern her answer perceptibly aroused, and the casualness of his next question was forced.
"I don't suppose you happened to meet a couple of cow-punchers on your way down from the point?"
"No.... No.... We didn't meet anyone." Why was she deceiving him?
"Where's Steve?" Hawley looked at her with sudden suspicion.
"He'll be here in a minute. He just went back along the road to look for—a pin I lost.... A family heirloom that means much to me." Her cheeks burned.
Hawley continued to scan the road and to listen. Presently Steve came around a bend. He slowed down a little at sight of Hawley, but called out genially. "Hello, George. Where you headed for?"
"Did you find Mrs. Latimer's pin?"
Steve's quick glance interpreted the look Helen flashed him, but she knew that Hawley caught it also. "No, I didn't find it. Shall we be going on?"
They left Hawley, clearly puzzled, staring up the road.
STEVE'S face was stern. His eyes were black with brooding. Helen waited for him to make an explanation, but they rode for a time in silence. Finally he seemed to make an effort to throw off his mood.
"You probably thought it was queer the way I left you. I appreciate the way you tried to throw Hawley off the scent."
"I bungled it, but somehow I thought you'd rather he didn't know about the men."
"Your hunch was OK. And at least he's still puzzled. But not half so much as I am. I can't understand the fellow, but at least I've quit having any confidence in him or any belief that he's trying to help clear up the mystery."
"Mystery?"
"Yes. There's queer things going on around here. I keep losing cattle and can't find who's stealing them. I'm sure one of those fellows we saw was the Indian boy I left at my ranch day before yesterday, and I can't savvy why he'd be away over here on this side of the mountain—leaving the calves—and with that redheaded stranger."
"Do you hire Indians?"
"Lon's not an ordinary Indian. Fact is, we're almost like brothers. His mother used to cook for my dad when I was a kid, and after my mother got sick and had to be taken to—a hospital, Molly, Lon's mother, about raised me."
"I've always wanted to see an Indian woman—squaws—that's what they call them isn't it?"
"Molly's keeping house for Tess Morely now." Steve lapsed into silence.
"I didn't know cattle stealing was still going on." Helen wanted to hear more. "From what Uncle Billy said, I thought things were different now."
"They are. That is, they're supposed to be. I don't know of a single cattle man who's lost stock—I mean in bunches—in the last ten years, but me. There's some kind of hoodoo tagging me around—has been ever since my dad died and left me the House Rock outfit."
After a moment he went on. "I was only a kid when Dad died, hadn't turned sixteen, and even though I'd been on the range practically all my life, I was pretty inexperienced. Uncle Billy tried to help keep things together until I was old enough to take responsibility."
"Were you losing cattle then?"
"Yes. And there was another mystery that I've always felt sure was connected with this cattle stealing. It goes back a long way. My dad and that Sam Huntsman Uncle Billy mentioned last night used to be partners. Then Sam went to Chicago and stayed for about ten years. When he came back he sold his share of the outfit to Dad and was going to Texas. He started out with his share of the herds with two or three men and was going to follow them after he'd finished up the deal. He and Dad were riding along the Powell Trail when Sam's horse slipped and they both crashed down the canyon."
"Oh!"
"Yes, it was ghastly. I was a kid about twelve when it happened and I can't forget how hideous things were for a long time after. Mother collapsed and Dad was never the same. He'd been so close to them, you see."
Helen was trembling. Did Steve know those rumors at which Uncle Billy had hinted—that it hadn't been an accident? That might explain the brooding look that haunted his eyes; she'd noticed it last night while they were dancing, and several times today.
"A few weeks after Sam's accident, Uncle Billy and old man Vaughn, who used to have a big outfit there at V. T., found out some way that Sam Huntsman's cattle hadn't been taken to Texas; that they hadn't even left the mountain. They'd just disappeared—dropped out of existence."
"But how could they?"
Steve shrugged. "Wouldn't I like to know! About a month after that, a bunch of our calves vanished, and every year since Dad died, I've lost cattle in the same mysterious way. It's driving me nuts."
Helen was excited. This concerned her as well as Steve. Those cattle that had disappeared would have been her cattle.
"Haven't you any idea whose doing it? Aren't there officers who can help you?"
Steve laughed. "We've had hunches, dozens of them. But none of them lead us anywhere. The officers are as helpless as I am. Hawley's a deputy. But I didn't even bother to tell him just now that I'm sure that when I get to House Rock tonight I'll find my calves gone. He's been trying for years to help solve the mystery—at least pretending to."
Helen's mind was racing in two or three directions. There were things she must find out.
"This Sam Huntsman. What about his—family? Didn't they ever come out to see about his property?"
"As I remember, his wife died a year or so after they were married."
"And there were no children?"
"Uncle Billy thinks there was a child, but it must have died, too, because we never heard a word after Uncle Billy wrote to someone he knew about—a sister-in-law I believe, after the accident."
"If there had been a child," Helen ventured cautiously, "this herd of cattle that disappeared, would belong to it?"
"Sure, and half of my ranch over in House Rock Valley too."
They emerged from the timber into Pleasant Valley. As they neared the Hotel Steve turned suddenly. "I'm asking you not to say anything about those fellows we saw. I've got to find out for sure if that was Lon Dean. There may be a clue."
"Of course." What would Steve do if she suddenly said "I'm as concerned about this business as you are. I'm that child of Sam Huntsman's."
"If the thieves should be caught and the Huntsman cattle recovered, what would be done with them?" she asked.
"Uncle Billy and I used to talk about that. He's always said that they'd belong to me; but if such a miracle should happen, I'd see that he got them. I'd like to see Uncle Billy set up. He's never been able to hold on to anything for himself—always more interested in helping the other fellow. I've tried to take him in with me but he won't come—say, I believe that's him down the road now, coming to meet us. Wonder if he's got some dope."
"What's up?" Steve asked when they met the old scout. But Uncle Billy didn't answer.
"I begun to wonder if you two had eloped. Steve, we must git out to the ranch pronto. I've got the supplies ready and have arranged with Jack and Curley to bring them on their pack horses. We'd best go right now. Mrs. Latimer will excuse you if you don't go on with her, won't you?" His little black eyes were popping. He was impatient to be away.
"What shall I do with the horse?" Helen asked. If only she might go along with them!
"Ask Wood Russell to have one of his boys take him down to Uncle Billy's place," said Steve, "And if you want to ride again before I get back, have them get Maje for you—any time."
"Thanks. I hope you find everything all right."
"That's too good to hope." Steve waved to her as they rode away.
(To Be Continued)
BABY ROSEBUDS By Merling D. Clyde
The climbing baby rose-buds gay In summer's sun so brightly bloom, They bring a pain I can't allay— The climbing baby rose-buds gay.
I see a waxen form that lay— My darling babe in rose-drenched room— The climbing baby rose-buds gay In summer's sun so brightly bloom.
Transplanted By Lella Marler Hoggan
"TRANSFER?" asked the motorman.
"No, thanks! Let me off at the end of the line," directed Nancy Ann Parker, as she seated herself, bag in hand, by an open window.
The jostling car shot past the thronged crossings, long lines of automobiles, and brightly decorated shop windows. On and on it rocked, rhythmically, past the smoky down town shops, and the residential district, into the sparsely settled community. Nancy Ann reveled in the picturesque surroundings, and drank in the sweet spring odors. Rippling fields of green, bright meadow flowers, a broken-down pasture fence, and a pebbly brook stretched out ahead of her, when the motorman turned in his seat and announced, "This is the last house on this line, lady." He pointed to a neat frame building basking in the morning sunshine.
"I reckon that's the place," announced Nancy Ann, as she stepped gingerly into the street, and started across the green field. Walking briskly to the cottage, she rapped gently on the front door.
"Good morning," said the pleasant little woman, who came to the door with a baby in her arms. "Will you come in?"
Nancy Ann smiled genially, "No thank you, I'll not come in, but if you don't mind, I'd like to sit here on your steps for awhile, and maybe walk out around the barn and the hen-coops. I was afraid if I went nosin' about, without sayin' anything, you might think I was a tramp."
"Make yourself at home," laughed the little woman.
"I'll tell you, dear girl," continued Nancy Ann, "I came out to see the spring. My blood's been bubblin' for a week. When I woke up this mornin' and saw the streaks of sunshine gleamin' across them purple mountains yonder, I couldn't stand it another day. So I just climbed onto the car and told the motorman to take me to the end of the line."
"That was the right thing to do," endorsed the new friend.
"I wanted to see the blue birds and smell the medder posies, and hear the larks a singin'. I wanted to drink in this sweet spring sunshine, and feel the grass springin' under my feet. Why, land o' livin', girl, this is something like!"
"You wonderful woman," gasped the young mother, "you feel just like I do. The spring has been calling me for days, and here I sit in my kitchen, cooking, and mending, and tending my babies, as if life depended on it."
"Why don't you cut loose? Come on! Start. Right today."
"If you'll stay around until I finish my morning's work, I'll do it. My husband will not be home until evening. I'll take the babies and we'll make a day of it."
"Brave girl! I should say we'll make a day of it. Got any fresh eggs?"
"Yes, buckets of them."
"We'll take a bucket of them with us, and boil them over the camp fire, Gypsy fashion. I have some bacon here, too, and some buttered brown bread, and oranges. We can prob'ly find some water-cress along that ditch bank yonder. We'll have a real banquet."
"Come in while I get ready. I'm so glad you came."
"Now you go right ahead and fix the children. And I'll wash up your dishes while I wait." Nancy Ann removed her wraps and began rolling up her sleeves as she spoke.
As she washed the dishes she said: "I live in the Bear River Valley. But I've been staying with my son in the city, since I was left alone."
"Well," interjected the hostess, "I came from the Bear River Valley, too."
"You did? What's your name?"
"Bessie Bradley. My maiden name was Norton."
"I guess I don't know your folks. But I know you, now, and I'm glad I found you. My name is Nancy Ann Parker. Folks call me Aunt Nancy."
Bessie smiled as she went about putting the room in order, washing and combing the children, and putting on their clean dresses.
"Yes," continued Nancy Ann, "my youngest son, Jack, lives in one of them apartment houses up on the hill. Him and Helen was married just last year, and they want me to break up house keepin' and live with them. They're real good to me. But I don't like the smoke and the noise and the clutter of the city. And nothin' to do—always nothin' to do. I'm not needed for a blamed thing at Helen's. There's no cellar and no garret to clean up, and no old clothes to make over. Why mercy me, Bessie, when I feel spring in my blood, I want to get busy."
"So do I," agreed Bessie.
"Yes," Nancy Ann added, "my fingers itch to dig in the garden; I want to feed a brood of fluffy, yellow chickens; and I long to smell soap a bilin'; and feel the warm soft wool in my fingers, as I card the bats for my winter quilts. What do the women folks in town know about work, these days, anyway? When they wanta light they push a button. No monkeyin' with smoky chimneys and pesky coal-oil cans. When they want to wash or iron they push a button. Now just between you and me and the bedpost, the hull kit and bilin' of 'em don't do enough work to get the backache."
"But I'm glad women have it easier, now," defended Bessie.
"So am I, Bessie. I never push a button for light or power that I don't thank the Lord for such miracles. And I guess it's a good thing they don't have cellars and garrets. I know I keep too much old stuff around. I reckon I'd have more time and peace of mind, too, if I'd have a burnin' now and then. But I love my old things and I love my work, too. I love to make soft warm quilts, and pretty bright rugs. And I've wove hundreds of rag carpets."
"But I'm hinderin' you, Bessie, with my talk. Go and fix up your bedroom while I finish up in here. I'll help the children into their wraps."
BESSIE had scarcely finished the bedroom when Nancy Ann stepped to the door. "Say, Bessie, there's a triflin' lookin' peddler at the door, and he's mad as all git out. Maybe you'd better come and see what he wants."
The peddler proved to be a salesman for a local firm that had sold Bessie some blankets. She had made her first payment before receiving the goods. But when the blankets were delivered, they were so inferior that Bessie knew there was a mistake. So she telephoned to the company to come and get their goods and refund her money. The little man at the door was very irate, and refused to make an agreeable settlement. When Nancy Ann saw that Bessie was somewhat worsted in the contest of words, she stepped to the door.
"Well, mister," she greeted him, "you seem to be a little warm under the collar this mornin'."
He glared at her but did not reply.
"Bring the blankets in, Bessie," she requested, "and bring my shoulder shawl, too, please. It's on the back of that rocker."
The argument had settled on one questionable point, as to whether or not the blankets were fifty per cent wool, as guaranteed by the company.
"Say, mister, did you ever shear a sheep?" questioned Nancy Ann.
"Sheep shearing is not my business, Madam," tartly replied the representative.
Nancy Ann reached for her shawl, and began plucking the fluff from the lace edge. "Do you know a sheep by the smell?" she went on.
"I'm not in the sheep business, Madam," he floundered.
"Bessie, bring me a couple o' matches," said Nancy Ann, as she pulled a wisp of fluff from the blankets. First, she lighted the black fluff from her shawl, and held the scorching bit up near the man's nose. "Now that shawl's one hundred per cent wool. I clipped the pelt, and spun the yarn, and knit the shawl, myself. So there's no go-between." She then lighted the white fluff from the blanket. "Now smell that. What do you say?"
"Well, I will say they don't smell just the same," he countered, as the stern lines about his mouth began to relax.
"I'll say they don't," ejaculated Nancy Ann. "Why, man, that blanket's never been within shootin' distance of a sheep."
The shadow of a smile curved the salesman's lips. "Of course, it's Bessie's deal. She can do as she likes," agreed Nancy Ann, with a shrug of the shoulders. "But if 'twas me, I'd see you in tophet a pumpin' thunder at three cents a clap, before I'd keep your blankets."
A broad smile illuminated the man's countenance. "Madam, you win," he surrendered, and turning to Bessie, "Roll up the blankets, lady. How much did you say you paid down on them?" And he passed her the money.
NANCY ANN heaved a sigh of relief as Bessie closed the door. "I'll tell you right now," she ejaculated, "no peddler ever sold me anything I didn't want to buy."
"Hereafter, I see my goods before I pay for them," laughed Bessie.
"Now what else can I do to help you?" questioned Nancy Ann. "We must be off. He's wasted most a half hour of our precious time."
"You could pack the lunch maybe. There's plenty of cooked food there in the cooler. There's cold meat, and little cakes, and pie, and fresh fruit."
"I have plenty of bread," announced the older woman, "but we can take some of the meat and some little cakes. Never mind the pie. With this bucket of eggs and a quart of milk, I think we'll do fine. Say, but we're goin' to have a glorious day. My blood's a bilin' with joy clear to the ends of my fingers."
"It's going to be a real adventure," exulted Bessie, slipping the hilarious children into their caps and coats.
NANCY ANN'S wildest plans did not outrun the adventures of that day. They walked to the foothills, plucked wild flowers, and dug segoes with a sharpened stick. They gathered water-cress, and cooked their dinner over an open fire. Nancy Ann found a hen's nest, containing thirteen eggs. They made whistles from pussy willows, and finally climbed up into the hayloft to watch the glorious sunset.
"It's been all I expected, and more," said Nancy Ann. "I have only one regret, I wish we had started earlier. But it's wrecked ime for the city. I wouldn't be surprised if I'd be startin' for home about next week," and then a grave expression crossed her face. "Do you want to go back?" questioned Bessie, sweetly. "Wantto?' There was a world vf heart-sick longing in the words. "Can't you go?" And Bessie's sympathetic eyes searched the kind old face. "Yes, Bessie, if I'm _ brave znough, and I reckon Iam. My ack is not so stiff for a woman vi my years. I'm thinkin' I can still earn my livin' and feel happy RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE doin' it. Only—only, it'll be lonesome at first. You see Sam and me worked side by side fer more than half a century, and no better man 'ever lived than Sam." Her voice broke, but in a moment she continued, "It's like this, Jack and Helen want to make life easier for me now that I'malone. But l 'never could tolerate an old woman settin' around on a silk cushion a waitin' to die. When I get toa place in the road where I can't get up and do the things that need to be done, I'm ready to go, and I hope the Lord takes me without waitin' around too long." "But Jack would help you even if you went back to the old home, wouldn't. He 2?": "Oh, yes, all of my children are willin' to help me. But, you see, while I'm able, well—I'd sooner help myself." | "You dear, brave soul," admired Bessie. "I'm afraid your son can never make you happy in his city home.": "No, I often tell Jack I'm like an old tree. You can't transplant an old tree successfully, it's too deep rooted." "You surely have a great love for the open spaces, don't you?" "Yes, Bessie, and little wonder. I was born on the plains, and cradled in a moving prairie schooner. My whole life's been spent on the frontier. But God gave us roses as well as bread. Along with the tears there's always fun and laughter, if we take them. My life has been full of glorious adventures. I always found time to do some of the things I loved to do, along with the things I had to do, and I put all of the joy and ginger I could into the necessary work." "You're a philosopher, Aunt Nancy." TRANSPLANTED 50! "My philosophy's made up just of chips and whetstones I've picked up along the trail. But if an angel happened to come walkin' up that path, right now, and told me I had just one more year to live, I wouldn't feel called on to make any changes in my program," and she smiled contentedly. "What time is it, Bessie?" The little mother held up the small clock. "I must catch that next car or Helen will be worryin'. I didn't tell her where I was goin' today." "I'm so glad you came," repeated Bessie. 'We'll never forget it. Here, take this paper with you. It's the county paper from home. You might enjoy looking it over." "I’ll read it," promised Nancy Ann. "And I'll remember you formany aday. Youknow we get anything out of life we want. The trouble is, most people are afraid to cut loose and help themselves to happiness. Don't be afraid, Bessie. There's plenty of joy to go around and to spare, if you'll just learn to take it." Bessie watched Nancy Ann until the car disappeared in the distance. 'One never knows," she mused, "what blessing the day wiil bring." A soon as she sat down in the car, Nancy Ann unfolded the county paper, and turned to the news from her home town. Almost the first item that caught her attention, was an advertisement of an auction sale. She read it through the second time, trying to steady the trembling paper. "Sure as I'm a livin' woman, that's my own furniture," said she. "Now I just wonder what' particular things Jack has told them to sell. Vm glad | saw this paper." She was serious the rest of the way home. ELEN met her at the door with a welcoming smile. "I'm surely glad it's you, Mother Parker. When you were not here at dusk, I became so anxious I telephoned Jack. But he just laughed and said most likely you had gone out on a still hunt for happiness. Said you often did it and seldom got home early." "Jack knows his old mother, all right," chuckled Nancy Ann. "When I had eight children at home, all at once, the evenin's were a little nerve rackin' at times; and many's the time they all got to needin' a lickin' at once. Then I used to slip out quietly, and steal down to the lilac arbor, and sit there in the soft dusk and rest and relax. Or maybe, I'd slip into a neighbor's house for fifteen minutes just for a change." "And the children?"' "Oh, the children were all right. I was the one that needed a lift. Excuse me for changin' the subject, Helen, but say, I've had a wonderful day." "Been over to Aunt Martha's 2?" "Martha's," she echoed scorn: fully, "Why, child, 've been out in the country, diggin' segoes and makin' whistles. Had bacon and eggs for dinner, cooked over a camp-fire, and water-cress fresh from a mountain creek. Met a little woman I'd never seen before, and we sure made a day of it." "Mother Parker you'll never grow old." "Not as long as life's worth livin' I shan't. And yet, I don't know. Death'll be a brand new experience. And I reckon it'll be full of just as many glorious ad- 502 ventures as life is. Say, there's Jack, now, and I'm wantin' to see him." "What. Are you wanting, Mother?" inquired Jack, greeting them both warmly. "T want to know which furniture and stuff it was, you told Jeddy Hill he could auction off." "Why all of that old stuff, Mother, that wasn't in your room." "You mean the things in the granary?" "Yes, and all of that stuff in that store-room.' "Not that south room, surely?" "Yes, why not?" "Why, Nellie's cradle's in there —the one she slept in when she died. And the melodeon. That melodeon is one of the first musical instruments that ever crossed the plains. And then there's your father's chest of tools, and our first bed. You don't have any idea I'd sell such things?" "Now look here, Mother dear, you'll never in all this world use any one of those articles again. Why give them house room and keep them around to worry about?" "T know, Jack, but I couldn't sell em." "IT wish I knew what to do, Mother, to make you happy here. I want you to be comfortable and contented. You've spent your whole life serving others. I want you to rest, now, and be free from care. Is your heart always going to go back to the old home?" "Yes, son, always. Like the Children of Israel, I long for the flesh-pots of Egypt," she laughed. "I’m too old to take root in new soil." "Now, Mother mine." "I know, Jack, the years don't count while the heart beats young. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE But there's a lot of unfinished things I've been waitin' fer years to do. Besides I want to be busy to the last. I always did hate a stagnant pool: but oh, how I love a runnin', singin' brook." "I'm afraid you're getting homesick," he bantered. "I am a little homesick, Jack. Had a strange dream the other night. J dreamed I saw your father. Seemed like I was up home settin' by the kitchen window, and he came in all smilin' and happy and passed mea key. I asked him what key it was, but before he could tell me I-woke up." "You need a day out in the country, Mother." "Don't you ever think I haven't had one today, and a most glorious one, too. It was like goin' home." He looked across at her and smiled. "Home," he echoed, "Can't we ever make this home to you, Mother?" "Don't worry, Jack, you and Helen's been mighty good to me, and I'll not forget it. But you know me, Jack, bread is always sweeter when I earned it myself." "But, Mother dear, you're not sixteen you know." "Follow in my tracks for a week, young man, and then guess my age." Jack caught the twinkle in her eye and he knew that the argument was ended. "What is it going to be, Mumsy," he laughed, "My Aunt' Sally" or "A turkey in the Straw?" “No, Jack, I want to hear that New York jazz program." EXT morning about 10:00 a. M., Jack had a hurry-up call to the telephone in his office. 'What is it?" he asked anxiously. TRANSPLANTED "This is Helen speaking. Thinking your mother would be tired after her day in the country, I did not disturb her. But when she had not come down by ten, I felt anxious, and I went to her room to see if she was all right. Jack, she's gone. She did not sleep in her bed last night. Whatever could have happened? I'm simply distracted." "Calm yourself, Mother's all right. We shall probably get a wire about noon, saying she's gone home for the summer." "And you really think she's safe?" "All smug and fine, sure. It would take a mighty hard jolt to upset Mother. She is one woman who is thoroughly capable of engineering her own career. She moves with a purpose, and she generally reaches the goal she sets out for, without accident or sorrow." "I'm so glad you think she's safe. But I'm anxious just the same." "Wait a minute, Helen, here's a telegram, now. I'll read it." "Dear Jack and Helen. Things looking fine. Sale's today. Love. Home safe. Jeddy's auctioin Mother." ig was about 11:00 a. M. When Jeddy Hill stepped onto Nancy Ann's porch and reached out to unlock her door, and didn't. "Well, Vl be—When did you get here' he stammered. "Oh, I've been here quite a spell. I've got the house in livin' condition and done a little bakin'. Come in and have a chair. You got here just in time to sample my cookies while they're hot. They taste better hot." Jeddy hesitated. He looked at the shining windows, the freshly 503 washed floor, and the white polished kitchen range. Nancy Ann passed him a plate piled high with delicious, spiced raisin cookies. Very reluctantly he took one. But he shortly helped himself to a second and a third one. "They're all right," he admitted, grudgingly, "but coming to business, Nancy Ann, I'm here to get the things Jack promised me. The auction sale comes off this afternoon." "What things do you figger on sellin'?" asked Nancy Ann, quietly. "Well everything in the granary and the south room." "V'm not goin' to sell the stuff in the south room, Jeddy." And her tone was very decisive. "Well now, Nancy Ann, them tools will never be of any use to you, and—" "Look here, Jeddy Hill, I'm tellin' you, I'm not goin' to sell the stuff in the south room." Drawing a key ring from his pocket, Jeddy fumbled the keys in his fingers. "Now tools lose their value quicker'n most any kind of implements," he persisted. "Where did you get that key ring?" interrupted Nancy Ann. "Why Jack passed it to me last fall and told me to lock things up." "Let's see it," she demanded. "I've searched this place from studdin' to rafter fer that bunch o' keys. I had two keys fer this room or I'd have been locked out." "As I was sayin', Nancy Ann, about them tools and things." "Jeddy Hill, it'll do you no good to raise ructions about that stuff. I'm not goin' to sell it—and that's that. There's the key to the gran- 504 ary, and | see your man's come to load up." She spoke with a finality that offered no excuse for reply or argument. Jeddy's disappointment was plainly featured in his face, as well as in his fretful, irritated manner. "Better put a handful o' them cookies in your pocket, Jeddy," suggested Nancy Ann. "The iman on the wagon might like one." Nancy Ann closed the door softly behind him and sat down in the old rocker. "Now that's the key to the south room," she said, "and that's the key to the cellar, and that's the key to the coal house."' She clustered them together on the ring. "This is my own door key, and this my trunk key, and this—' she puzzleda moment. "Oh, sure, it's the key to Sam's tool chest. But this?" She singled out a small brass key and her brow wrinkled in bewilderment. "Now where have I seen that key before?" She closed her eyes as if to shut out all other thoughts. Then she sprang to her feet with a start. "It's the key to Sam's strong box. That's the very key he passed me in my dream, and I've never thought of that strong box since I put it in my trunk, the day after the funeral." She walked hurriedly into her little bedroom, the room made sacred by the intimate, pathetic, and hallowed scenes of a life-time. Unlocking the old trunk, she lifted out the till. There lay Sam's best suit, carefully sponged and pressed. She noticed the frayed cuffs she had mended so painstakingly before he wore the suit those last Sundays. There were other pieces of his clothing, and various little keepsakes. She placed them lovingly on her white bed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE After a few moments, she wiped the tears from her eyes, and lifting the strong box from the bottom of the trunk, she placed it on the table. With trembling fingers, she fitted the small brass key into the lock and turned it. Raising the lid she gazed at the contents. "Just as he placed 'em himself," she whispered. Held by a rubber band were his tax receipts, year by year, since he first received the deed for the land. Here was his little book with the notations in his clear plain hand, of many of the important happenings since he came to the valley. Along side of the papers, was a small tin box. It too, was locked. She tried the brass key. It turned in the lock. The lid sprang open. Gold! Five dollar gold pieces! She stood in bewilderment. As if to verify what her eyes told her, her fingers touched the coins—tenderly, almost reverently. She picked up one, she turned it over. There was a tiny bit of white paper glued to the face of it. "Nov. 12, 1878," she read. "The very year we came to the valley. How did he do it?" She turned another, and another, and still another. Here was one put by on Christmas in the eighties. Here was one on her birthday, and one on their wedding day, and other dates—oh, so many. And here, the last one in the box, "Oct. 20, 19.....," the very day he died. Her weeping eyes could see no more. Fumblingly, she placed the contents in the box and closed the lid. The gentle, old figure shook with sobs as she felt her way to the white bed. There beside a faded suit and a dust-stained hat, she knelt in prayer. ELIZA ROXY SNOW MEMORIAL CONTEST God, alone, who had guided them in all their efforts, knew what infinite planning, and thrift, and sacrifice it had cost to put by this loving store for her. Through all the years, Sam had 505 denied himself in a thousand ways, that she might be blessed, and cared for, and comforted, when she must tread the winding path of life without him. WS Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest HE General Board conducts the Eliza R. Snow Relief Society Memorial Poem Contest annually. Three prizes will be awarded—a first prize of $15.00, a second prize of $10.00 and a third - prize of $5.00. 'The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, and to pay for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Relief Society Magazine, and closes October 15. Rules of the Contest 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written. 4, The sheet on which the poem, is written should be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. Only one side of the paper should be used. 6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Non de plumes should not be used. 7. Statement should accompany the poem submitted that it is her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the nands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 9. Members of the General Board and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest. 10. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 11. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recog~ nized as writers. 12. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15. 13. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. In Memoriam By Elizabeth Sport Stowell IN THE passing of our beloved Sister Floretta Ricks Webster, we of the Rexburg Stake are not alone in our grief. Although she lived practically all of her life on the same lot where she was born, she was known the length and breadth of the upper Snake River Valley, for her helpful, sunny friendliness. Not quite fifty years of age she had given so much of her life to public service that it seemed that surely she must have lived many more years than she did. From her earliest girlhood she took an active and important part in the life of this community. She was one of the first Presidents of the Civic League which founded our public library; she was the principal organizer of the Daughters of the Pioneers of the Upper Snake River Valley and. Was serving as its president at the time of her death; she was a member of the Relief Society Stake Board for fifteen years. Her lovely home, her car, her own indefatigable energy, were at all times at the call of the Relief Society. The members of the remotest Ward knew her personally and loved her for her cheerful council and hearty encouragement. She was an inspired leader. In our serious hours, spent with perplexing problems, she always lifted the clouds of worry with the sunshine of her smile and the gallantry of her aid showed us the worth of her soul and the loyalty of her heart. When we have _ had = sorrows, though she had her own, her winsome laugh and ready humor, eased the tension and drove away our fears. She was the essence of cheerfulness and optimism and the radiation of them and her genial disposition were attributes of her wonderful personality. She chose always to stand on the bright side rather than in the shadow. She lived to express in body, mind and soul all that was high, beautiful, serene and ideal in her nature; thus giving unbounded joy and inspiration to all who knew her. In her home, she reigned as a queen meriting the love, honor, and respect of her husband and children, who idolized and revered her. She was always a jolly playmate and pal to her sons; she leaves an example of true womanhood for her daughter. May the influence of her wonderful life be an inspiration to all who knew her, and her memory a cherished treasure of unselfish devotion. MY HOOKED RAG RUG By Della Adams Leitner I count the task a pleasure, The time is so well spent. For always in creating Of lovliness is lent A joy, a satisfaction That I can share. I find That in producing beauty I leave old cares behind. I love to make a hooked rug And watch the pattern grow To bright attractive flowers Or gay designs, and show That from a jumbled gathering Of garments old and worn And odds and ends of pieces A lovely thing is born. The Portal of Life By Ada Hurst Brown MISS GEBERT of Los Angeles, and myself left Blanding in Miss Gebert's car, one July morning at seven o'clock, and rode for miles through cedar-covered canyons over switchbacks and dugways by the dozen. Then we began a steady climb to the top of the Elk Ridge, through pine and birch, frightening white-faced calves that ran from the road with waving tails, to turn and stare at us from a safe distance. From the flat-topped Elk we still climbed up and up between the Bears' Ears, remarkable huge twin formations of red sandstone, partially covered with pine and birch. At the top of this pass a sign informed us that we were 10,000 feet above sea level. Now we began one of the most spectacular descents imaginable. The road turns abruptly downward, and the vegetation is entirely different, being scrub pine and cedars. My companion's itinerary from which I read while she gave her full attention to driving, called this "'the finest view in the world," and we paused to look and point out places of interest. We could see a hundred and fifty miles in three directions. In the distant west and south were visible Bryce Canyon, Navajo Mountain of Arizona, Monument Valley, and the famous Black Mesa. To the east were clearly visible mountains near Grand Junction, Colorado. (On our return we were to see this view with a gorgeous sunset background. My companion said that while she had seen all the United States and several other countries, she had never seen anything to equal that view.) THE EDWIN, OR OWACHOMO BRIDGE 508 WE dropped swiftly now onto a cedar-covered mesa, and a short ride brought us to the rim of the canyon in which the Edwin bridge is located. It was then that an interesting discovery burst upon me: I had been accustomed to going up into canyons; here we went down into them. The Edwin is called the "woman's bridge" because of its comparatively delicate appearance, and it is beautiful; but my taste must be masculine, for my greatest thrill came at sight of the massive Augusta. We stopped a short time in the cool shade of the Edwin, and then took off on the three-mile hike necessary to reach the Sipapu, or Augusta bridge. That is, we had been told it was three miles, but we felt quite sure it was at least six. By the time we reached White Canyon, we had emptied our canteen, the heat had blistered both my heels, and given Miss Gebert a slight sunburn below her checked shorts. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE For a mile or so we had followed along the trail the tracks of some doglike animal, clearly visible in a crust caused from a recent shower. It was intensely quiet, and we saw no other sign of life but ants and a few big flies that flew viciously about our faces.... O words of mine can adequately describe the scene that burst upon us as we clambered over rocks down to where the full majesty of White Canyon stood revealed, with the top of the great Augusta far below us. I never expect to see anything which will inspire in me more awe and reverence than did that monstrous hole in the ground, and I truly understand why the Hopis named it Sipapu, which means to them, "The Portal of Life." Huge, magnificent, colossal—all such adjectives fail to describe it. Silent, so silent one can almost hear the hum of the universe, it stands as it has stood for centuries, one of the THE AUGUSTA, OR SIPAPU BRIDGE (Note figures on top. It is necessary to climb ladders in several places to reach the top) THE PORTAL OF LIFE most breath-taking sights of our world. I had a queer feeling as though I were floating there in the air high' above the bottom of the canyon, and I could easily imagine why the Hopis had believed that here spirits were ushered into this life, and that it was also here they left to be purified before entering the sky to become rain gods. Leaving the rim of the canyon we climbed straight down a ladder made of tree-trunks, scaling the white rocks which have given the canyon its name, along a ledge to one of the accessible cliff dwellings that hang here and there along the steep canyon walls. Some of them are in places that it looks as if only a bird could reach, and one can only speculate as to how those ancient people came and went. ' Down, down, down, we clambered until the sides of the canyon towered almost out of sight above us; then into the very bottom of the canyon and under the Augusta bridge, which made a grateful shade. We found 509 water in a spring, and rested while we listened to the mysterious soughing like a soft breeze through trees, caused by I don't know what, and which probably helped to give the bridge its name. Now the top of the Sipapu towered high above us, two hundred and twenty-two feet to be exact—high enough to clear the spires of the Salt Lake Temple. It has a span of two hundred and sixty-five feet, a width of thirty feet, and a thickness of fifty feet at the top. The bridge is formed of red sandstone, streaked with black. It is situated just in front of the junction of the two canyons which run together to form White Canyon and was made, geologists tell us, by a swirl of water which washed away the softer stone, and after centuries left the bridge high and dry as it is now. But whatever the natural explanation, I like best the mysterious one the Hopis had for it, "The Portal of Life." CONSOLATION By Susa B. Gudmund lear not my friend life is not o'er When we're beneath the sod, For He who once hath passed this way Is now an Eternal God. We do not know perhaps just now The greatest reason why, Fhat we who came on earth to live; Also came here to die. Some think we only live to die, I know, we die to live: O'er the gulf a bridge was made, when Christ His life did give. That He might lead us on toward That kingdom of our God, For He hath once long, long ago This mortal journey trod. He knoweth well this rough steep road That oft' the light grows dim, But He will guide us safely through If we will follow Him. So with true faith undaunted In One who knows the way; Let us press on with ne'er a wish Forever here to stay. For surely we can safely trust A God to lead our soul, Since He and only He hath power To help us reach the GOAL. Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary Uintah Stake OR the past year, the Uintah Stake Relief Society has tried to create a greater desire among the women to read the Scriptures. There is abundant proof that the efforts are bearing fruit. A class in Bible study, under the direction of the Seminary teacher, is conducted. On February 8, the Stake Relief Society Board presented a pageant, "The Bible Speaks.'' The author, Mrs. Evelyn Maeser Crandall, personally directed the splendid production. The Stake was especially grateful to Sister Crandall, who is the only surviving daughter of Dr. Karl G. Maeser. It is not difficult to trace, in the beautiful life of Sister Crandall, the wonderful influence of her gifted father. The pageant was an inspiration. Many wonderful characters of the Old Testament were portrayed. Beginning with the Book of Genesis, coming in continuity down to the time of Christ, the magnificent characters of Old Testament history were portrayed. The cast included almost one hundred people, with a chorus of twenty-five participating. The great personal interest of those who took part in this presentation was expressed, as they seemed to imbibe the spirit of the fine characters represented. The picture below is a fine representation of the ensemble. San Francisco Stake SAN FRANCISCO is one of our young Stakes and has all the enthusiasm of youth. The Relief Society conceived the plan of raising UINTAH STAKE NOTES FROM THE FIELD funds for the new Stake House, and the happy event was presented on March 17th, the anniversary of Relief Society. The sewing supervisor was chairman of the drive for funds. She purchased brown denim, and made a number of little shoes. Each shoe was accompanied by a typed message explaining the purpose. A very substantial contribution followed this unique method of soliciting funds. Another activity of this enterprising Stake has found expression in the Project work. A very beautiful example and concrete evidence of the effect of this work among the - women of the organization was demonstrated in a beautiful book sent to the general office by Sister Orel Elder, Project Leader of the Stake. The book was compiled by Sister Jennie Richards, Project Leader of the Mission Ward. It really demonstrated a remarkable fund of information in reference to the Old Testament, and the subject matter was beautifully expressed in epic form by Sister Richards. The references and titles for each month's study were given in advance. The women were then asked to read carefully and summarize the contents of the individual Books, pointing out the inspirational messages of each particular piece of literature. The entire contents of the Old Testament was covered in the book. It was illustrated with color pictures, which added much to the attractiveness. The book was dedicated by Sister Richards to her grandchildren, and certainly was a valuable record for them to possess. This fine demonstration, while perhaps one of the outstanding features, was typical of what has been accomplished through the enterprising spirit of Relief Society women, 511 Bear River Stake ANOTHER demonstration of the effect of Bible reading comes to us from Bear River Stake. This was used in a very beautiful teachers' leaflet, the opening paragraph of which was: "In times past millions have sought solace from care and discouragement, and have found hope, and 'the peace that passeth understanding' from the Book of Books—the Bible." Passages from Scripture, demonstrating the truth of this, followed. The material was wonderfully well chosen, and demonstrated the fact that the Hebrew stories are woven from the fabric of life and have a universal appeal. Their Project also included special attention to Mothers of the Bible. To quote further: "In no other history can there be found so many stories of beautiful mothers as are to be found in the Bible. The singular beauty of the Hebrew women, and the natural warmth of their affections, together with their sublime faith and courage, have combined to 'throw gems of domestic loveliness over the pages of the Bible. From Eve to Mary the Bible presents pictures of womanly beauty and virtue that are unsurpassed and rarely paralleled elsewhere.' " Austrailian Mission— (Tasmanian District) FROM one of our most remote Relief Society organizations comes a delightful message from Sister Florence T. Rees, Mission Relief Society President. After having completed a tour of the Mission, which takes practically three months time, she reports that the work of the Relief Society is progressing most satisfactorily. In this particular branch the young women are a great asset and participate actively in the work of the Relief Society. 512 One particular sister, however, should receive special attention as her life was most unusual. Sister Alva Eva Lennard's parents were among the early settlers in Australia. A desire for religious freedom prompted their emigration to this distant country. Naturally they found a very great change from what they had expected, and times were hard. Sister Lennard's grandfather was a school master, and the hard labor necessary in a new country was very difficult for him, and he did not live long after arriving. Sister Lennard's grandmother and her mother had the full experience of the pioneer woman with all of its test of courage, faith and strength to meet the problems and surmount the difficulties. Sister Lennard was born in Kapunda, South Australia, and went to live in Adelaide with her parents when eighteen years of age, at which time she began the study of dressmaking, in which she achieved great success, both as a designer and sewer. She was very successful in this business until the time of her marriage. Her husband was not strong, and died, leaving her with three small children to rear and educate. A woman of unusual talent, she soon turned her art of designing to good account, and her services were sought by some of the leading firms in Adelaide. She also received a diploma from London for her excellent cutting. While designing and sewing was her real vocation, she was very fond of music, and became an accomplished singer, which talent she used most freely for Church service. She was deeply impressed with the truth of the Gospel, and became prominent in Church work in Australia. She was President of the Relief Society for more than twelve years, during which time she achieved RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE an enviable reputation far and wide for her sympathy and generosity. She conducted her business until past the age of 65, after which she devoted her time to her Church work. Her services were very greatly in evidence during the depression years. Among other accomplishments that are listed is her skill as a cook, and her friends were witness to her delightful talent in this particular. Her comfortable home was always open to her friends. She set a high standard for herself, and helped others to overcome the petty things of life. Her watchwords were: "Never pity yourself. Be a hard task-master to yourself and ALVA E. LENNARD NOTES FROM THE FIELD lenient to others." She was. Still young in spirit and in looks at the time of her passing at 73 years of age. A friend, in writing of her said, "Sister Lennard will be sadly missed, not only in Adelaide, but in the surrounding country, for she was a true friend to many people." Northern States Mission [NX the very splendid Magazine campaign which was conducted last season, some of the agents were asked to give the methods used for their very successful work. The following report came from Sister Marie Meyer, of the Milwaukee District of the Northern States Mission. "The Magazine Agent first of all must put her heart and soul into - the work, and have a personal interest in every sister in her branch. She must be humble enough not to rely on her own knowledge, but to seek the guidance of our Heavenly Father in prayer, that she may approach everyone in the right spirit and manner; she should also understand the financial condition of the sisters, as it would be very foolish and unwise to ask one to spend a dollar for the Relief Society Magazine when she has not money to buy bread. Here she must find ways and means to raise money by putting on a play or some kind of entertainment. Perhaps taking up a collection from those who are able to spend a few cents to help make someone happy. The three qualities that every agent should have are, humility, tolerance and a heart full of love and charity. For me there is nothing better than the organization of Relief Society, as it helps those who are unfortunate and in distress. Nothing is better to cheer them up and help lift their burdens than the Relief Society Magazine. It also enriches their lives, shows them the best way possible to secure new hope 513 and happiness, not only for one day but for every day in the year. The Magazine, this little gift of cheer, can be purchased for less than nine cents a month. I feel it is the duty of every Magazine Agent to help the sisters realize what a great messenger of love this Magazine can be made in the home. I made a personal visit to every sister in her home, and in this way made new friends for myself and for the Relief Society Magazine." St. George Stake ANOTHER thrilling report of activity in behalf of the Magazine came from the St. George Stake. From Sister Elizabeth L. Cox, Magazine Agent for the Stake, came the story of what she accomplished in one of the small Wards of the Stake. To quote Sister Cox, "Last year members of the Stake Board visited the outlying Wards. We found most distressing conditions in many places, and this among people who had formerly been independent. They were discouraged to a point of indifference. We found one particular Ward where there was just one Relief Society Magazine for a membership of twenty. However, conditions were such that we could readily understand the reason for this. This one Magazine was thoroughly read and passed around for the others to use in the lesson preparation. However, we could only say we were glad that thev had this one Magazine, and they should get all out of it they could. The visit of the Sisters seemed to kindle anew the spirit of the organization. A party was put on, at which food was sold and the amount realized was enough to cover eighteen subscriptions. Those who were able then added a dime a piece until the 100% was realized, so we know that one hundred per cent can be realized even in the midst of adversity." Notes to the Field Enthusiastic Leadership AN excellent example of what efficient and enthusiastic leadership can do in Relief Society work is related by a member of the General Board after a visit to one of the Stakes. There were two Wards where conditions governing the people were practically identical. Farming and care of the fruit crops offered absorbing occupation for all. In one, the Relief Society Ward President remarked, "The women are too busy, we cannot ask them to come to meetings and carry on to the end of the outlined work. The attendance at the last meetings will decrease until the average for the whole year will be greatly lowered. We are going to close the last of May." The members of the organization took their que from their President. They were not expected to do anything, therefore they could not. There were only two members present at the last meeting held more than two weeks in advance of the regular time for closing. In the other Ward the President said, "Our work is outlined for the year, every lesson has its distinct place in the course, we are asked to carry through to the end, and we can do it. Our sisters will feel better pleased to begin vacation if our work is well rounded out.'' The members felt the spirit of the President and responded splendidly. Out of the enrolled membership of thirty-five, thirtythree were in attendance at the last meeting of the season, June 23rd. The Social Service Lesson, "Health and Disease,' was most excellently presented. The members responded, and the whole matter was a fine preparation for the Summer vacation. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN: KATE M. BARKER: JULIA A, F. LUND Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B. Knight Rosannah Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Cora L, Bennion Ida P. Beal Amy Whipple Evans Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford: President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Marcia K. Howells RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Manager 9 0. Assistant Manager Connelly Kimball Louise Robison Amy Brown Lyman VOL. XXIII AUGUST, 1936 No. 8 Editorials A Profitable Vacation ACATION days are quickly passing. Are they leaving us something tangible and worthwhile? People who have been strenuously engaged during the winter months need change and rest, but they can get relaxation ofttimes by change of employment. To those who love literature, time to peruse the pages of books is one of their most delightful pastimes. We urge our officers and members to read during this vacation the three books that will be studied in our literary department next year: Abraham Lincoln, the Prairie Years by Carl Sandburg. Julia Ward Howe, by Laura E. Richards and Maud Howe Elliott. Alice Freeman Palmer, by George Herbert Palmer. Our project on the Old Testament was taken up by our officers and members most enthusiastically and the number of chapters thoughtfully read surpassed our fondest anticipation. Next year we are to have the reading of the New Testament as our project. This will correlate with our theological lessons and our teachers' topic lessons. Each time one reads the books of the New Testament, new light is obtained, new thoughts come that were before unseen. Every woman as she takes her vacation in the mountains, by the lake or under the murmuring trees can take with her a copy of the New Testament, and in these glorious solitudes drink in the spirit that the book has for each one who reads it understandingly. Growth brings joy, stagnation brings a state of atrophy, so while vacations should be restful, let them be exhilerating with new truths obtained, new light received, new information gained. 516 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Congratulations IN July 7, 1936, at the beautiful home of Mr. And Mrs. Wallace F. Bennett, Sister Augusta Winters Grant, beloved wife of President Heber J. Grant, celebrated her eightieth birthday. Four hundred of her friends were honored with invitations to attend the reception, which was given by President Grant's daughters who left nothing undone to make the affair most delightful. We congratulate Sister Grant on her long, happy, useful life. We hope she will live for many years to be a joy and comfort to her illustrious husband and his remarkably fine family. Serenely she has walked through life, making the best of conditions and circumstances and finding joy in asociating with her family and friends, in travel and in reading good books. For ten years before her marriage she taught school. For a long period of time she was active in the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and was a charter member of the Author's Club and Friendship Circle. Motherhood has been her crowning achievement. She has successfully reared her own daughter, Mary, and has mothered eight of her husband's daughters by other wives, also five children of her dead brothers and sisters. Sister Grant exemplifies to all who know her the joys of contentment. She says, "I have always liked to do what I had to do, and I have never wanted anything I couldn't have." OLD-FASHIONED THINGS By Viola Stone Card Afraid to be old-fashioned, Lest a modern world should sneer, Lest you lack sophistication, Which the gay crowd holds so dear? Know this: the oldest fashioned things, Whose lustre time cannot dim— Those priceless virtues, eternal Will be—and have always been! For what is older than courage— To row against the current While the crowd drifts with the stream? Or what is older than simple Truth, Or Faith, or Sincerity? Don't be afraid of ridicule, But dare your best self to be. For those who achieve true greatness— Whose lives the years applaud— Receive of the angels these old-fashioned gifts Which are as ancient as God. The courage to nobly dream,: Lesson Department (For First Week in October) THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson I Curist's Ministry Foretotp By THE PROPHETS Helpful References In the Old Testament: Deuteronomy 18:15, 18, 19 (compare 3 Nephi 20:23); Isaiah 11:1-5, 10 (See Doctrine & Covenants 113: 1-6); 5:2; compare Matthew 2: 4-6 and John 7:42. In the Book of Mormon: 1 Nephi 1:19; 10:4-11; 11:13-33; Mosiah 16:6, 7; Helaman 14:1-28; 3 Nephi 1:10-21. Consult index of Book of Mormon, current edition, under the title of Christ for numerous other references. In the Pearl of Great Price: Moses 5:6-8; 6:57; 7:54-56. Abraham 3:22-27. Taumage, Jesus the Christ, Chapter 1. Scriptures Foretold Coming of a Redeemer. A few years ago a noted scholar, in the hearing of the writer, made an assertion to the effect that not one passage of scripture in the Old Testament refers to the ministry of the Christ among men. In fact, it has become almost an axiom among certain critics, that the prophets made few or no predictions with reference to the future but rather "always spoke out of a definite historical situation to the present needs of the people among whom they lived." But the revelations of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph make exceedingly plain the declaration that such teaching is not true, especially with reference to the ministry of Christ. It seems to us that in the providences of God the coming advent of the Messiah was too important an event in the plan of salvation not to be made known to the children of men. The Book of Deuteronomy records, 'The Lord thy God will raise up unto thee a prophet from the midst of thee, of thy brethren, like unto me; unto him ye shall hearken." (18:15, see also verses 18 and 19.) The Church teaches that this scripture refers to the then future advent of the Christ and that Moses, the great law-giver, was the author of it. (3 Nephi 20: 23.) Micah, the prophet, who lived about 725 B. C., predicted the place of the Messiah's birth. (5:3). The Gospel of Matthew cites this prophecy with approval; and Herod, the King, was told that Christ would be born "in Bethlehem of Judea." (Matthew 2:4-6). Buc great as these prophecies are, those of Isaiah are greater. The distinguished contemporary of Micah saw with astonishing clearness the work and suffering of the Redeemer among men. Who can forget His ministry as described in the matchless English of the authorized version in Isaiah 53. "He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted."' Handel, the composer, caught the spirit of this scripture 518 in his, the greatest of all oratorios, the Messiah. 2. Nephites Foresaw Christ's Coming in the Flesh. The Nephite scripture is even more explicit with reference to the coming of the Christ than is the Old Testament. When Nephi spoke of the ministry of his father, Lehi, among the Jews, prior to his leaving Jerusalem, he stated that he "manifested plainly of the coming of a Messiah, and also the redemption of the world." (Nephi 1:19). In one of the more remarkable chapters of the Book of Mormon, Nephi records some of the important facts of the Savior's ministry as predicted by Lehi, including the time of His appearance. 'Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem, a prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews—even a Messiah, or, in other words, a Savior of the world. And he spake concerning the prophets, how great a number had testified of these things, concerning this Messiah, of whom he had spoken, or this Redeemer of the world." Lehi spoke of the preparatory work of John the Baptist, his baptizing the Messiah, the preaching of the latter to the Jews, His death, resurrection, and subsequent manifestation to the Gentiles (1 Nephi 10: 4-11). In like manner other Nephite prophets spoke of the ministry and work of the Christ. Abinadi, Samuel the Lamanite, and Nephi, the son of Helaman, gave marvelous testimony to the events incident to the Savior's birth, ministry and death. The testimony of the Book of Mormon makes clear the truth that the central theme of the prophets, the one great thing that gave meaning to their testimony, was the advent and ministry of the Savior of the world. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 3. Early Patriarchs Foretold Christ's Coming. The Pearl of Great Price, too, bears eloquent testimony to the coming of the Savior. When Adam, the great Patriarch of the race, was asked by an angel why he offered sacrifice, he replied, "I know not, save the Lord commanded me." The angel then explained, "This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth." (See Moses 5:6-8). It is thus seen that the human race was not denied, even from the earliest times, a knowledge of the coming of a Redeemer. Enoch bore explicit testimony of this when he spoke of "Jesus Christ, a righteous Judge, who shall come in the meridian of time." (Moses 6:57.) This great preacher was permitted by the Lord to see into the future and to behold in vision the Christ lifted up on the cross, and the great disturbances of the earth incident thereto. (Moses 7:54-56). Abraham adds his witness to the coming of the Redeemer. The Lord showed him the intelligences organized even before the world was, and also the choice of the Savior. (Abraham 3:22-28). Thus we see in the Old Testament, the Book of Mormon, and the Pearl of Great Price a great three-fold witness to the coming ministry of the Christ. Questions 1. Can you cite any passages from the Old Testament pointing to the advent of the Redeemer other than those given in the lesson? 2. How do you account for the fact that the Book of Mormon is, in many respects, much clearer and more explicit in predicting the advent of Christ than is the Old Testament? LESSON DEPARTMENT Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.) 1. Provide a suitable musical selection from Handel's oratorio, The Messiah. Have the singer, if possible, say a few words about it, pointing out how Christ's ministry influenced Handel while he was composing it. It is suggested that some sister with musical talents be assigned this part of the lesson. If the selection from the oratorio is unobtainable, select a suitable hymn. 2. Investigate the use made in the Gospel of Matthew of Isaiah's prophecies concerning the Messiah. It is suggested that a good reference Bible be used, and the references to 519 Isaiah be noted and studied. As examples, compare Matthew 8:17 with Isaiah 53:4; and Matthew 12: 18-20 with Isaiah 42:1-3. Compare the Gospel writer's love of Isaiah with Nephi's love of him. (See 2 Nephi 25:5.) 3. What can you say concerning the nature of the religious teaching in a good Nephite family? (Consult 2 Nephi 25:23-30; Doctrine & Covenants 84:18-27). 4, Compare the quotation in Matthew 2:15 with Hosea 11:1 and Exodus 4:22, 23. Study the context of the quotation in Hosea carefully and determine if Matthew was literally correct in attributing the coming of Jesus from Egypt as a fulfillment of Hosea's words. TEACHER'S TOPIC TEACHER'S TOPIC FOR OCTOBER THE PARABLES OF JESUS Introduction THE Parables constitute the larger part of Christ's recorded teaching. They contain the fundamental principles and show the love, justice, and compassion that characterized His mission. Because of their great beauty and the spiritual truths they contain they will be taken as a message to the homes of our people by our Visiting Teachers. What is a Parable? "In a restricted sense, it is the name given to a connected narrative, whether of events in human life or of a process in nature, by which some great spiritual truth is illustrated or enforced." "It is an earthly story with a heavenly meaning." s "A parable is a narration of well known scenes or events in human life and its surroundings for the purposes of giving them a moral or religious application." "Tn a parable there is nothing contrary to the truth of nature and to life. If there is, then it is no parable." Christ used parables to illustrate the truths he wished to teach. They were presented in the form and image of familiar things, common in the world of nature and human experience. They deal with the ideas of the simple people and the incidents and situations with which they were familiar. He had no mysteries to teach, it was His wish that all, even the humble and unlearned should understand Him. 520 THE LOST SHEEP Luke 15:1-7. "Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. "And he spake this parable unto them, saying, "What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and niné in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it? "And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he cometh home he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost. "I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance." Palestine was a pastoral country. Any story in regard to sheep would be immediately understood and appreciated. The country was rough and dangerous, the paths winding and uncertain. There were great dangers to sheep that strayed away. When the sheep became lost the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE anxious shepherd searched diligently until it was found. He took it up tenderly on his shoulders and carried it home. It needed his extra protection on account of the experiences through which it had passed. He called the other shepherds together, told them of his joy, related the trouble he had and how he sought everywhere for the sheep that was lost. There are three points in the application of this parable. First, the sad fate of the sheep that goes astray and is lost. Second, the Shepherd's love and care for the sheep and the care he takes to find it. Third. His joy at finding it. Just as a shepherd cares for every one in his flock and exerts himself to save a lost sheep, so does Christ care for the welfare of his children individually, and has joy in their recovery and safety. This joy gives hope to the sinner. The figure of the Good Shepherd has been exceedingly loved in the Church and has frequently been the subject of literature and art thrqughout the centuries. We might ask ourselves, What are our obligations to those who have made mistakes, and how truly do we forgive the repentant lost one? WORK AND BUSINESS A series of lessons for those who desire to use them on the second Tuesday of each month will be published in the Magazine. However, it'is understood that these are to be used only when there is not sewing or other work to be done for the, needy in this period. Color in the Home Taken from the Utah State Agricultural College Extension Service, Bulletin M. S. No. 123. 11-2-33. "To catch enough beauty and charm in our surroundings that members of the household will find gladness and contentment within its shelter."—Missouri Home Creed. Color is one of the magic means of creating that beauty. Without it the world would be void of charm. LESSON DEPARTMENT While comfort and convenience are perhaps the first things to plan for in the home, the next thing of importance to stress is beauty, and sincere beauty in a home calls for suitable use of color in every object. A complete color plan should be made before beginning work on a room, so that the whole may be visualized before work is begun on any part of the unit. It is not uncommon for people to fear color and little wonder when. One thinks of the crimes against harmony that must be frequently faced. Color is truly the home decorators strongest ally; yet, it too frequently becomes her strongest bugaboo. Color may lend a doleful atmosphere, a bizaare effect to the whole room; yet, it may be used so as to produce a room pleasingly restful and inviting. To avoid tragic color effects in decorating; those that over-stimulate, even irritate; those so glum as to be depressing, to produce other trying conditions, a knowledge of few simple facts and rules is essential. Helpful suggestions are to be found in Handicraft for Every Woman. Lesson I Color in the Home References. Basic Principles of Art, Part 2, C. Pages 24-26, 58-59, Handicraft for Every Woman. AY particular attention to difP ferences in Primary colors of light and the Primary colors of pigment, and how you would apply this knowledge to the beautifying of vour home. Pigment colors are the 521 ones we use in paint, dye and calcimine. Following is an interesting demonstration to be given at meeting to make the women conversant with color. Use either commercial dye (3 pkgs, one red, one yellow, one blue) or use calcimine 5 cents worth of red, of yellow and of blue. Be sure to ask for pure primary colors. With either medium prepare them at home. A number of small cups are necessary. With the dye use white cloth as your subject, with calcimine use white type paper cut in strips. First divide each color into three. Dilute one 14, one 4 and the other undiluted. This gives you three intensities; a tint, a stronger color and a hue. Make your sample by dipping in your cloth or paper and pin up to dry. Now mix a red tint and a blue tint-orchid. A red tint and yellow tint—orange tint. Continue until you have crossed all your tints. Cross your stronger colors, then, your hues. Now combine all three primary tints, etc. To get your grays. From this knowledge you can now experiment intelligently and produce any color desired. Let the women come up and play with the colors. It's a great deal of fun. After you have mixed all the colors you care to, pick out the most beautiful samples. Then arrange them for a study of harmony and a study of contrast. Suggest that the women go home and dye some rags for rugs and modify the commercial calcimine to their own taste. They will enjoy their rooms much more if a little individuality is in them. Note: Write your State Agricultural College Extension Division for suggestions. LITERATURE (For Third Week in October) Lesson I ALICE FREEMAN PALMER Introduction "Everybody reads biography today." This sentence is taken from a magazine called "Modern Literature." In the late nineties the essay was pushed from the drawing-room table and the novel took its place. Now the novel has been pushed to one side and biography has threatened to take its place. In the best selling lists, biography and fiction run side by side. This change has come about because the processes of life have become so complex and the cry for leadership so insistent that stories of courage and notable achievement are demanded. This demand has been met in a measure by the writings of the modern biographer. Then, too, biography has adopted the technique of the novel; thereby greatly increasing its vogue and effectiveness. As a result we have a stream of literary biography that has flowed on for many years, and is yet at high tide. To namea few who have achieved distinction in this field we call to mind Andre Maurois of France, Lytton Strachey of England, Emil Ludwig of Germany, Henrik William Van Loon of Holland, and Van Wyck Brooks of the United States. It has been said on good authority that the test of highest merit in a prose writer is that he can lend interest to anything he writes. A drama that is not entertaining fails. So it is with the novel and the literary biography. They must be interesting. In this respect the literary biographers have generally succeeded. What they write is nearly always marked by great selective power. They do not use material that is dull and boring. Interest is maintained in many ways. Sometimes, as in the case of Rembrandt, the painter, it is brought about by presenting a personality whose very existence seems to disturb sufficiently to cause unexpected and alluring things to happen. Sometimes it results from narrating a life that can only be interpreted by carrying with it the whole sweep of the history of the time. Such is true of the life of Abraham Lincoln and other great pioneers. It is notably true in the case of both Joseph Smith and Brigham Young. Consequently it is reasonable to suppose that no adequate biography of King Albert of Belgium could be written without throwing further light on the World War. Added to the ability to select what is of interest comes the power to relate it in a concise and attractive manner, or to borrow the words of another, it must be recorded "with beauty of substance and beauty of form." Many years ago Thomas Carlyle told us that '"'a well written life is as rare as a well lived one." It is safe to say that Carlyle would have great satisfaction in reading some of the modern biographies. A recent article on literary biographies, speaking of the method employed, tells LESSON DEPARTMENT us that the new biographer must become thoroughly at home in the world he is seeking to portray. 'To this end "he devours all the material on the subject; letters, diaries, deeds, official. Records, histories of the period, other biographies, the files of old newspapers, and possibly he visits the scene of important events in the career of the subject of his biography. "All of this material must be carefully weighed and sifted, for the sincere biographer, like the honest portrait painter, must tell the truth as he sees it. Blind hero-worship does not make a good biography, nor the attempt to belittle the hero through sensational gossip. The honest biographer avoids both these pitfalls in his quest for the real man. "When the biographer has selected and absorbed his material, then he is ready to write his biography. He can picture for the reader the man he now feels he knows intimately. Sure of his material, he can write vividly and freely."
The new biography of Robert E. Lee which has drawn so much praise from critics meets the standards of a good biography. Its author, Douglas Southall Freeman, is described as "thorough, patient, honest, with a true gift for research. He was nineteen years preparing the biography. In his patient research for material he went to sources not before consulted in Lee biographies; manuscripts of old Southern families, Lee's unpublished military papers, the records of the Bureau of Engineers, and the United States Military Academy." Through his work we are told we may "glimpse the shining spirit of the man."
Gamaliel Bradford, who is described as one of the keenest and most renowned of American biographers, when asked to define biography said: "Biography is not a cold, bare, remote study of strange creatures and impossible events. It is simply a study of human nature, of beings who lived and died and suffered and achieved, just like you and me.... Biography is the study of human beings, what they have been, what they are, what they may be, and above all, what they can do."
The Life of Alice Freeman Palmer
We are told we may "glimpse the shining spirit of the man" in the new biography of Robert E. Lee. That is precisely what George Herbert Palmer is seeking to have us do in the case of his gifted wife, Alice Freeman Palmer. His biography is a study of personality. Mr. Palmer tells us that at her death he received nearly 2,000 letters "from statesmen, school girls, clerks, lawyers, teachers, country wives, outcasts, millionaires, ministers, men of letters"—to him largely an unknown company, "but alike in feeling the marvel of her personality and the loss her death had caused them."
President Tucker said, "There is no other of our generation, with the possible exception of Phillips Brooks, who has stood to such a degree for these qualities in which we must all believe with unquenchable faith, if we are to do anything in this world." And President Eliot added, "To my mind this career is unmatched by that of any other American woman. Mrs. Palmer's life and labors are the best example thus far set before American womanhood."
Yet, we are told, "She lived no longer than most of us. She had no early advantage of birth, physical vigor, or station. Half her years were passed in comparative poverty. During only nine did she hold positions which could be called conspicuous..... Yet by personal power rather than by favoring circumstance this woman sent out an influence unique in kind and puzzling those on whom it fell."
Alice Elvira Freeman was born February 21, 1855, at Colesville, Broome County, New York. She was grateful that she had been born in the country, and later, when she contacted "the great town's harsh heart-wearying roar" she renewed herself by lying in green grass or walking by the bank of a favorite brook in deep woods. She passed part of her life near the Susquehanna River. "When I went a thousand miles westward to college in 1872," says she, "I bore remembrances of our magnificent river, its enormous width, strong currents, and terrible freshets."
Mr. Palmer is sure that the economic struggle of her early life had much to do with the development of Alice's mind and particularly with her fine attitude toward life. Both her maternal grandmother and her mother had been teachers. Her father farmed for some years, then suddenly made up his mind to study medicine. It is not entirely clear how the family got along in his absence, but they managed and later moved to Windsor, New York, where he became a country doctor. At Windsor, Alice showed a deep interest in her father's work, feeling keenly the suffering of the afflicted ones whom he served.
Her elementary education had been desultory. She had picked up what she could in the schools of her native village, but now in Windsor she was to attend an academy. Alice entered in September, 1865. Now her education really began. All through her life she acknowledged her indebtedness. To the school and in 1901, a speaker at its semi-centennial celebration, she paid her mead of praise.
When she was twelve, four schools of Broome County held a literary contest. Each school was to prepare a set of compositions. These were to be put in charge of a delegate for arrangements and for public reading. The other schools chose teachers as delegates; Windsor chose her. She carried off the prize on all three counts for arrangement, for reading, and for her own composition.
She was seventeen years of age when she left Windsor to attend college. She had concluded that the University of Michigan was the best place for a woman to study. However, selecting a university was not her only trouble. Her father felt that he could not give all of his children a college education, and as his family consisted of three daughters and a son, the son should be the one to receive the training. Alice urged that if they would give her the opportunity she would in turn assist the other children. This promise she kept faithfully.
When she reached Ann Arbor she found that her training at Windsor had not been adequate. However, President James B. Angell, who had chatted with her, induced the faculty to try her for six weeks, for said he: "I was confident she would demonstrate her capacity to go on with her class. I need only add that it was soon apparent to her instructors that my confidence was fully justified."
In one of her letters written after her entrance into the University she says: "My special studies this semester are Juvenal's satires, Calculus, and Astronomy, with all of which I am delighted."
Once during her college course word from home told her of financial disappointments, so she made up her mind to do a little teaching to help herself. She went to the Ottawa High School in Illinois, and became its head. This was her first venture in teaching; she was not yet twenty years of age. The residents of Ottawa tried to induce her to teach the year following, but she told them politely that she must finish her college course.
While at the University, President Angell had said she was an excellent scholar. She had to plan carefully to make ends meet, but she was deeply religious, a fact that accounts for her cheerfulness and never fading hope. In 1876 she was graduated from the University of Michigan. She did graduate work from time to time, although her thesis was never completed, her sister Stella's death interfering. In 1882 the University conferred on her the degree of Doctor of Philosophy.
She was teaching at Saginaw, Michigan, where her family joined her, and her father continued to practice medicine. When Wellesley opened, its founder appealed to President Angell for teachers. A number of graduates from the University of Michigan had places on the faculty. President Angell had told them they should obtain Miss Freeman's service, so they offered her the head of the department of history, which she accepted. She attracted attention at once. The founder of Wellesley, Mr. Durant, often consulted her on administration matters.
While teaching at Wellesley she had a hemorrhage of the lungs. Dr. Bowditch advised France, intimating that her condition was serious. She went to New York and consulted Dr. Willard Parker, who, she wrote, "tells me I can live if I have character and courage enough. He made her feel how prodigal she was in the expenditure of energy. He sent her to the open air to exercise in breathing and prescribed food and care. She took to heart his advice, so that when eight years later she was examined, the lesion had entirely disappeared."
On November fifteenth, Miss Freeman was appointed vice-president and acting-president for the year. Virtually she was president, as the health of her predecessor made her immediate withdrawal necessary. And so we have this struggling girl who at seventeen had entered the University of Michigan conditionally, receiving an appointment of professor of history at Wellesley at twenty-four, and at twenty-six becoming its president.
Questions
1. How do you account for the popularity of modern biography?
2. From what field of literature has it copied its technique?
3. How can poverty, if not crushing, develop character?
4. Why did Miss Freeman select the University of Michigan, so far away from her home, as the place to do her college work?
5. Her home in New York State was on the Susquehanna River. How does that river connect with Latter-day Saint history?
6. May people generally receive refreshment through communing with nature? If so, what should they do?
Note: For additional material consult the first six chapters of the "Life of Alice Freeman Palmer," by George Herbert Palmer.
SOCIAL SERVICE (For Fourth Week in October)
Lesson 1
THE PREVENTION OF CRIME
Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross; Chapter XII.
The greater part of crime could be prevented through a more general understanding of its causes and the proper guidance of youth. Analytical study reveals the fact that adult criminality usually has its origin in early childhood. But many adults have a false impression of crime. If they acquire their knowledge of crime through yellow journalism, sensational radio accounts, and similar forms of publicity they are apt to think of crime as the product of the moment and as related to the immediate act of the violator. This is a mistaken idea. Just as wholesome childhood leads to adult well-being, criminal tendencies almost invariably originate in early life.
Although there is much truth in the impression that the gutter urchin of today is the criminal of tomorrow, a large percentage of delinquent children come from homes where better guidance could be expected. However, the prevention of crime is a problem which is restricted neither to guidance within the home nor to community agencies alone. It involves the combined efforts of both; they are inextricably bound together.
Through recent statistical studies the emphasis on juvenile delinquency has been changed from punishment to prevention. And the interesting point is that the same agencies which have helped to rehabilitate children who have stepped aside are finding it possible to help the neglected child to adjust to society before wrong doing occurs. Such experiments present a tremendously interesting challenge to past methods by revealing the possibility of crime prevention. But this necessitates a thorough understanding of the causes of crime. The present lesson is devoted to this end by developing the following points:
1. To acquire a knowledge of the causes of juvenile delinquency with an understanding of its relationship to later adult criminality.
2. To devise ways of social cooperation for the prevention of delinquency.
3. To understand the difference between the control of crime and the recharting of the life of the potential criminal in his early childhood.
In order to understand the present lesson it is necessary to define delinquency. A delinquent child is one who is acted upon officially by police officers or court authorities. But many children who are not officially delinquent possess anti-social tendencies which later result in unlawful behavior. Therefore, in this lesson the term will be used in its larger meaning and include those who have delinquent tendencies. This larger interpretation is given so that the problem may be approached from as broad a standpoint as possible. All adult criminals do not have juvenile court records, but in almost every case the crime can be traced to some cause or tendency belonging to his early life. A delinquent act is a part of the accumulated life process which can be understood only in relation to the sequence of experiences of which it is a part. The causes for a child's going astray are intimately related to all the factors in his development; they are part of his total personality. Crime is undoubtedly bound up with juvenile difficulties and behavior problems which have accumulated uncorrected from childhood and adolescence.
At the United States Attorney General's Conference on crime held in Washington, December, 1934, the following resolution was adopted: (National Probation Association Year Book, 1935, pg. 200.)
"The conference recognizes that criminal careers usually originate in the early years of neglected childhood, and that the most fundamental and hopeful measures of crime prevention are those directed toward discovering the underlying factors in the delinquency of children, and strengthening and coordinating the resources of the home, the school, and the community for child training and child guidance."
Since it has been shown conclusively by a statistical study of 14,000 juvenile court cases made in Los Angeles County in 1934, that approximately 70% of these cases need never be if homes and community agencies could combine their efforts to prevent crime, society is naturally confronted with the question: "Who is Delinquent?" The child, the home, the school, the church, or the community? The answer undoubtedly includes all of these. Often parents are blind to faults in their children; or they give up the attempt to train them properly in a hopeless gesture of despair; or perhaps, they do not understand what some of the tendencies may lead to. Misunderstandings also arise because of the conflict between youth and age in their differing points of view on contemporary problems. But recent studies also show that broken homes, friction within the home, and even misunderstandings over social problems are not as frequent causes of delinquency as an unsatisfactory economic situation. Where children are hungry and have but little to look forward to in life they develop undesirable tendencies readily. Slovenliness is a large factor. When home conditions are less inviting than street influences, the problem of guidance is relegated to some agency outside the home.
But the statistical picture reveals that most delinquent children have no church affiliations. Very, very few of them have hobbies to ride. Instead of being centered on wholesome activities, their interests are focused on the lurid and ever-present accounts of gangdom. Very few of them have group membership in any organization such as scouting, play centers, or character building clubs and camps. Although these organizations do reach an enormous number of children, they fail to reach many who need them most either because the children fail to avail themselves of the opportunities offered or they are barred from membership as being undesirable.
Yet, the pitiful part about the picture of delinquency is that over half of the cases studied have less than what is called average intelligence. True, most of them range around the upper sub-normal level, but they gradually descend to a very low degree of mentality. These are the children who cannot keep up with their classes in school. Lacking the mental ability to turn to anything partaking of an intellectual nature, they stand most in need of guidance towards wholesome activities and outlets for the normal gang instincts and emotions. But unfortunately they receive the least. But if society ever is to be rid of the menace of crime, it is on this strata of humanity that welfare agencies must concentrate; and society must realize that crime prevention is a social responsibility.
Truancy from school has been called the kindergarten of crime. It is generally a combination of habit, suppression by authority, a resulting defensive action on the part of the child, and a relative enjoyment in the out-of-school environment. Parents should never look lightly upon the habit; they should strive to remove the cause of the difficulty. It is estimated that approximately 5% of the school children are potential delinquents, but because of neglect and improper guidance, often many others are brought to the attention of the Juvenile Court.
The following tables showing the work of the Juvenile Court of the Third Judicial District of Utah are typical since the district comprises three counties, including both urban and rural conditions and representing a population of 204,040:
Juvenile Court Cases Third Judicial District State of Utah
                      1934    1935
Total Cases...........1,049 1,013 Delinquency............ 917 871 Dependency or Neglect.. 118 142 Others................ 14 0
The following table shows the nature of the offenses committed by the delinquents listed above:
Reason for Reference to Court (Delinquency)
                      1934    1935
Total Cases.............917 871 Automobile Stealing...... 34 29 Burglary................. 91 75 Holdup................. 3 0 Other Stealing...........353 330 Carelessness or Mischief.117 62 Traffic Violation........ 65 139 Truancy.................106 114 Running Away............ 43 49 Ungovernable............ 45 34 Sex Offense............. 31 27 Injury to Person......... 8 1 Use of Liquor or Drugs... 12 9 Other Violations........ 12 13
Of the 1934 cases girls account for 115 Of the 1935 cases girls account for 151
Of the above cases stealing was the outstanding cause of difficulty, including automobile theft accounting for 384 and 359 cases respectively for the years 1934-35. Destructive mischief is the second cause in importance of numbers. In the above cases 64% are from homes where both parents are living together and only 36% from broken homes.
The above cases were disposed of for the year 1934 as follows:
Disposition: Total Cases Remaining under Supervision of Court Chiefly by Probation Officer......368 Dismissed After Warning...........497 Committed to a State Institution.... 31 Other Disposition.................. 21
The ages of the above delinquents were as follows:
Age of Delinquents:...............1934 7 Years Old....................... 5 8 Years Old....................... 12 9 Years Old....................... 16 10 Years Old...................... 40 11 Years Old...................... 32 12 Years Old...................... 74 13 Years Old......................112 14 Years Old......................113 15 Years Old......................165 16 Years Old......................204 17 Years Old......................139 18 Years Old....................... 5
This table shows that the early teens is the period when the greatest number become delinquent. Beginning adolescence, when the child seeks to break away from parental authority is a dangerous period in youthful development. Without thoughtful study parents have great difficulty in understanding the motives which prompt their children to act. The obligation of meeting this problem is a social one. The value of adult education in its attempts to raise the level of parental intelligence and insight in regard to behavior problems of children will be discussed in a following lesson.
Although there is a general awakening and an increasing understanding of the situation, statistics show that there is much yet to be accomplished. There must be a coordination of all the agencies and activities organized for the benefit of young people. Churches must evolve schemes which will develop an adequate philosophy of life in the lives of those young people who are not regularly under the direction of auxiliary organizations. Those who are in regular attendance at the meetings designed for their benefit are not, as a rule, the ones who become delinquent, but those who are not in regular contact with such an organization. The National Probation Association found that 87% of the cases studied had no church connections or else they attended very irregularly. The teachings of the Master should be kept in mind. He left the ninety and nine and went out after the one lost sheep, not being content until he had found it and restored it to the fold. If the church loses its interest and hold on young people in the adolescent years, there is something radically wrong either with its organization or else with its administration. Youth needs to have religion interpreted in terms of life situations, and to be shown how to translate the ideals and principles of religion into everyday behavior.
To quote further from the conference on crime prevention: "It commends the progress that has been made in certain states and localities in drawing together through such agencies as coordinating councils all available local forces to combat unwholesome influences upon youth. It urges state and national leadership through appropriate governmental and voluntary organization in fostering the development of these coordinating agencies, the provision of constructive educational, vocational, and recreational opportunities for youth, and the provision of competent, skilled service to children in need of guidance and correction."
It is necessary to differentiate between the prevention of crime and its control. There is no longer any question about the relative costs or the enormous sums of taxpayers' money that is spent on criminal procedure only to result in a futile miscarriage of justice. The subject of control indicates police protection, court measures, and such subjects. The text discusses this aspect rather fully. What we are most interested in is the problem of prevention as it centers in the home and the community.
Activities
1. Submit a plan for your Stake to cooperate with other agencies to develop a coordinating council for the prevention of juvenile delinquency.
2. What has been done in your ward to gain the interests of those young people who are not affiliated with any organization?
3. Prepare a list of suggestions pointing out how our church could acquire the active interests of a larger number of young people and hold that interest through the adolescent period.
References
1935 Year Book National Probation Association, 50 West Fiftieth Street, New York. Who Is Delinquent? Los Angeles County Plan of Coordinating Councils. Rotary Club of Los Angeles, California.
CHILD GUIDANCE
Lesson I. PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
Life is a glorious gift from Our Father in Heaven. We are given the opportunity of going away to school to grow and develop, to gain an experience that is necessary for eternal happiness. Spirits cannot be made perfect without its body of flesh and bones, and the testing that comes from meeting the conditions of this life. The greatest blessing that is given to mankind is that of becoming co-workers with Our Father in Heaven in giving His spiritual children the gift of life, and the added blessing of helping these children to attain the best growth and development possible.
To Latter-day Saints who understand God's Plan "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man," motherhood and fatherhood become not a duty but a privilege. "We regard children literally as a gift from God committed to our parental care, for whose support, protection and training in righteousness we shall be held to a strict accounting." (The Vitality of Mormonism.)
As parents we are accountable not only for this care in the years of childhood but in a sense for all of life—but more essentially for the period of dependence and adjustment—childhood and adolescence. If a child is allowed to stand on its feet before its legs are sufficiently strong, physical deformity may result. If the young man or woman is forced into the world to care for himself before he has sufficient understanding and development and power of resistance, spiritual and moral deformity may result. The parent who makes this mistake will not be held guiltless.
In addition to the spiritual significance of children, the parent should want her children because she lives through them; her life goes on through the generations expressing itself in each new descendant. Her personal life is also enriched many fold by the contribution to her thought and feeling of every joy and sorrow of each child and grandchild. Children should be wanted, then, to fill up the void our lives would be without them, especially during our declining years.
Lawson G. Lowry, a psychiatrist, has said, "Being a parent is the most important job any of us has. We live in our children, so it behooves us to do a good job." But Latter-day Saint parents should want their children for deeper reasons than the strictly personal one. To them it should be the most important office they perform in the spiritual plan of the Church. Through modern revelation we were given the following: "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; for, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him." (Doc. And Cov. 18:10, 11.)
Begetting children is only the first stage in fulfilling parental obligation. Proper training and care are equally important. Mosiah admonishes. "And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry, or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil, who is the master of sin, or who is the evil spirit which hath been spoken of by our fathers, he being an enemy to all righteousness. But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another." (Mosiah 4:14, 15.)
Improper care and training is one way in which the sins of "the fathers are visited upon the children "unto the third and fourth generation," not through the blood stream so much as through the poor methods of living that are handed down by tradition. The quality of the training given children is equally as important as the quantity of children. Parents should carefully plan their family life so that adequate opportunities for developing into a wholesome personality are afforded every child.
Froebel, one of the greatest pioneers in child care and training said, "God is to be our Father, yet we are far from being fathers to our own children. We presume to have insight into divine things, and yet we neglect as unworthy of notice those human relations which are a key to the divine."
Fortunately, the proper training of children usually improves the personalities of the parents as well. The great responsibility of being a successful parent should force us to be more wholesome characters than we might otherwise be. Children add ballast to the ideals of the parents. This point is well illuminated by Will Durant, one of America's most popular living philosophers: "Example is so powerful that if it is good, nothing else is necessary. The best home and the best school, other things equal, are those that govern least. It is remarkable how well-behaved a child can be without punishments and without commands. When the libertarian method fails it is most often because we parents ourselves violate the rules we would have our children obey. We counsel temperance, and eat and drink to excess; we teach amiability, and quarrel publicly; we inveigh against the dangers of candy and violent moving pictures, but surreptitiously we indulge in them until the child finds us out. We ask for gentleness loudly, and rudely command courtesy; we advise modesty, and pose as infallible gods. But children learn by what they see us do, not by what we tell them; when they are most troublesome it is very likely that they are imitating our past performances. Show me your children and I will tell you what you are." (Will Durant, Mansions of Philosophy, p 242.)
What has been said up to this point does not directly apply to many parents, since they want and love their children more than all else in the world. This affection is usually the parents' only equipment for properly rearing their children. Granted the desire, how to do the best job of training our children still puzzles most of us. Moreover, knowing how, doesn't always lead to accomplishing the task. Paul complained, "For I know that in me (that is, in my flesh,) dwelleth no good thing: for to will is present with me; but how to perform that which is good I find not: for the good that I would I do not; but the evil which I would not, that I do." (Rom. 7:18, 19.) Our knowledge generally outstrips our conduct.
The parents who love their children most sometimes make failures of them. Usually the affection of such parents is narrowly selfish and is not calculated to promote the ultimate welfare of the child. Because the emotion of love is so strong, the point of view and needs of the child are often completely overlooked. A psychiatrist has said, "The noblest sacrifice a parent can make for his child is to step gracefully and unobtrusively into the background of his child's life as the child's need for him naturally grows less and less." But this does not mean that the parent's task is completed when the child enters school, nor is it always completed when he is graduated from college at twenty-two. The transition into adulthood is a most treacherous one, and the child needs to be understood as he struggles to become an adult with a definite role in the world's work. His problems are no longer simple as they usually were as a child. The parent who would be successful to the end must tax her intelligence now as never before. She must search her heart with great diligence in the attempt to see her boy's or girl's point of view. She must show the courage to relinquish authority and control at times even when it is extremely painful; and she must exercise enough judgment to avoid producing an outcast from the home.
Love is the guiding light and driving force in the noble art of parenthood; but unless it is enlightened by knowledge, it may defeat its own purpose.
Problems for Discussion
1. State some reasons why parenthood should mean more to Latter-day Saints than to other people.
2. Show how children educate their parents. Give concrete examples.
3. Why do parents find such great difficulty practicing what they may know about proper care and training of children? What are some of the influences competing against proper parental treatment?
4. Show how unenlightened parental love may handicap the personality of the child.
5. What is the effect on the child of a parent's not wanting him?
6. Show the advantages of planning a complete family program, which includes not only bringing children into the world but also provision for their proper care and training throughout the growth period to adulthood.
7. What place would you say proper care and training of our children will have in shaping our exaltation in the hereafter?
Magazine Drive
To Relief Society Stake Presidents:
Dear Sisters:
The time for our special Magazine Drive is from September 15 to October 15. All plans for this should now be decided upon. We hope the Stake and Ward Agents will be alert and work unceasingly until success crowns their efforts. The Executive Officers should be ready to assist the agents. Often they can secure subscriptions where agents are unsuccessful in doing so.
All subscriptions taken from October 15, 1935, to October 15, 1936, will be counted in connection with the Honor Roll and awards to agents.
To Our Magazine Agents.
We deeply appreciate the work done by our Magazine Agents in past years. They have worked enthusiastically, efficiently and unselfishly. Last season was outstanding—we reached the highest circulation in our history. More Wards attained the hundred per cent quota than ever before and many climbed up to between seventy-five and one hundred per cent. It has taken a great deal of work to reach this high standard, and we thank all those who made this success possible.
Unfortunately some did not have their records printed on the last Honor Roll in the Magazine who should, because they did not reach the office in time. We urge that this season the reports be sent in promptly. Stake Agents should not wait for Wards that are late until the prompt Wards fail to get credit in the published list.
Reports should contain the following information, and should be sent in by November 10th: Name of Ward, Stake, Enrollment, No. Of Subscriptions, Per Cent, Name of Magazine Agent.
Stake Agents must have their reports in the Magazine office by November 10, 1936, in order to have them published in the Magazine and to compete for awards.
Each Ward is asked to have as its goal a subscription list equal to the number of Relief Society members in its organization. We trust the following suggestions will be carried out by our Agents:
1. Know the worth of the Magazine.
2. Be prepared to talk intelligently on what it contains.
3. Do the work in a business-like way.
4. Study the art of salesmanship.
5. Keep records accurately.
6. Send in subscriptions legibly written and containing the necessary information: Name, Address, When Subscription begins, and Amount of money sent.
(a) It is very important that agents should be accurate in stating the month each subscriber wishes to commence. This will help us to avoid mailing two copies of the same number to a subscriber. It will also tend to alleviate much work and expense in making the changes later.
This list with the money should be sent directly by the Ward Agents to the Magazine office in Salt Lake City. Each agent should carefully read the following instructions before beginning her work.
INSTRUCTIONS TO RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AGENTS
Subscriptions Payable in Advance: The subscription price of the Relief Society Magazine is $1.00 per year, payable in advance. Subscriptions will not be accepted at the Magazine office unless accompanied by a remittance, and Magazines will not be mailed to subscribers until the subscription price has been paid. In order to comply with this ruling and to avoid errors, subscriptions will not be taken by telephone at the Magazine office.
Receipt Book, Use of: Agents should give each subscriber a receipt for money received. The agent should keep a record on the corresponding stub in the receipt book, of the name of the subscriber, the amount received, and the period covered by the subscription. This record will serve as a guide to the agent in soliciting renewals. Agents are supplied with receipt books by the Relief Society Magazine office upon request, or from their stake representative.
Subscription Blanks, Use of: All subscriptions taken by agents should be written on subscription blanks. A separate blank should be used for subscribers in different towns. Care should be taken that all names are spelled correctly. Agent should sign her own name and address on each blank sent in so that a receipt may be mailed to her. Subscription blanks are supplied by the Relief Society Magazine office, upon request or from their stake representative.
Give Complete Address: Agents will please give the correct and complete post office address opposite every subscription entered on the blanks so that subscribers will not be disappointed and Magazines lost. A subscription for a stake or ward Relief Society organization should be addressed in care of an officer of that organization, who will be responsible to the Society for the Magazines.
Change of Address: Requests for change of address should be written on a separate sheet and not on a subscription blank. Give the old as well as the new address. If it is necessary to change a name, give the name as it is now appearing on the Magazine, as well as the name as it should appear in the future.
Renewals: When a subscription is renewed, give the name exactly as it appeared on the previous subscription. Be sure to state with which number of the Magazine the subscriber wishes to begin the renewal, so that two copies of the Magazines will not be received for the same month, or so that a number of the Magazine will not be missed.
Complaints: Complaints should be written on a separate sheet and not on a subscription blank.
Remittances: Money received for subscriptions should be remitted by check or money order made payable to Relief Society Magazine.
Address of Magazine Office: Subscriptions and letters regarding subscriptions should be addressed to Relief Society Magazine, 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Agents: Relief Society Magazine agents give their services, without a commission, just as do other Relief Society officers and workers, and pay for their own subscriptions. However, in order that they will not be at personal expense, they may deduct the cost of postage and money order from the amount sent in for subscriptions, unless this amount is paid by the Ward Relief Society General Fund.
HONOR ROLL AND AWARDS TO AGENTS
I. Honor Roll: All wards reporting a subscription list of 75 to 99 per cent of their membership will have their names and the names of the agents published on our Honor Roll. All wards reporting a subscription list equal to 100 per cent or over of their membership will not only have their names and the names of the successful agents published on a special honor roll but will receive from the General Board a certificate of appreciation.
II. Awards: (a) To the ten ward agents obtaining the highest percentage of subscriptions, a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine will be presented at the General Conference of the Relief Society April, 1937. (Note: If agents earning awards are not in attendance, the book will be sent to them.) (b) To all ward agents not receiving a bound volume, who obtain subscriptions equal to 75 per cent or above of their membership, providing such subscription list contains a minimum of 25 names, a one-year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine will be awarded.
All subscriptions received from October 15, 1935, to October 15, 1936, will be counted in the 1936 campaign. (Subscriptions received after October 15, 1936, will be credited in the 1937 Drive.)
President Rudger Clawson says: "The Relief Society Magazine is a wonderful Magazine. You must never forget that it is the Relief Society organ, it is your publication, it belongs to you, it is issued for your benefit. If a Relief Society Sister should come to me and say, 'Brother Clawson, what is my responsibility to the Church publications?' I should say without hesitation, 'My dear Sister, your first obligation in this matter is to subscribe for the Relief Society Magazine. In it you will find every instruction and teaching that is necessary for you, and then after that, if you want to subscribe for other magazines, it is all right, but for you, it should be the Relief Society Magazine first.'"
BIRTHDAY PRESENT By Alice Lee Eddy
It's funny about birthdays—how they change. They always used to be so gay and jolly But now it's just another lonely day, Futile and dull with haunting melancholy.
Until you speak,—"It means a lot to me, It gave me you." So tender is your smile That suddenly it is a happy day. Undoubtedly these birthdays are worth while!
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XXIII SEPTEMBER, 1936 No. 9
CONTENTS
Is Life Worth Living....................By Miriam C. Bitner 537 Frontispiece........................................... 538 Sitka The Enchanted City..................By Harrison R. Merrill 539 The Visiting Teacher's Prayer.............By Afton Free Baird 544 On the Trails of the Old Kaibab...........By Elsie C. Carroll 545 A "Martha" Speaks......................By Maryhale Woolsey 549 The Lure of Something Green...............By Mabel S. Harmer 550 The Coveted "A" Class......................By Clara Perman 553 Mother-Friend...........................By Edna J. Gardiner 556 Happenings............................By Annie Wells Cannon 557 Religious Verse of Alice Freeman Palmer....By George H. Palmer 558 Prayer................................By Alice Freeman Palmer 560 The Singing Heart.....................By Alice Freeman Palmer 560 The Relief Check......................By Sadie Ollorton Clark 561 One Picture, No?......................By Virginia B. Jacobsen 565 Golden Wedding.......................By Sarah Ahlstrom Nelson 567 Too Much Freedom......................By Lucille Walker 568 Goodbye to a Missionary................By Vesta P. Crawford 571 Pin Money or Better...................By Sylvia R. Grant 572 A Challenge...........................By Eva K. Thomas 574 Mrs. Bennett's Baby...................By Ruth Diane Fisher 576 Notes From the Field..................By Julia A. F. Lund 578 Andrew...............................By Gertrude Ferry Stanton 581 Editorials: Jeanette A. Hyde.......................................... 582 Lizzie Thomas Edward...................................... 583 Monument to Charles R. Savage............................. 583 "Charles Coulson Rich".................................... 584 "Cash Relief"............................................. 584 We Wonder Why............................................. 585 Largess.............................By Della Adams Leitner 585 Lesson Department......................................... 586 Points of View......................By Eva Wangsgard 601 Obligation of the Church.................................. 602
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
IS LIFE WORTH LIVING By Miriam C. Bitner
Is life worth living? I asked a friend. Weary of toil and strife. He answered me thus: It will all depend On what you demand of life. If pleasure is all you would have. Oh then, Life isn't worth living at all, For you will find at life's great end That pleasure is wormwood and gall. If the gaining of riches great is your aim 'Tis a selfish game you play, And you may find as others have found, That riches will melt away. If living the life of sin is your wish You are treading a dangerous path, For he who is master of all hath said: That the wages of sin is death. But if you are living the best you can As you tread life's uphill road; If you are helping your fellow man And leading his steps to God; If you go with a smile instead of a frown As you work to this great end, Of preparing yourself for eternity Then life is worth living, my friend. TOTEM POLES AT THE ENTRANCE TO LOVER'S LANE MERRILL MONUMENT AND INDIAN CHILDREN % The 'Relief SocietY Magazine Vou. XXIII SEPTEMBER, 1936 No. 9 Sitka, the Enchanted City By Harrison R. Merrill T was on the longest day in the year and, I believe. The sunniest, that I first saw Sitka, the Enchanted City, the "Portal to Romance." On that day as we steamed down Whitestone Narrows, the sun glorifying the wooded islands and the cellophane waters of Sitka Sound, I could understand the feeling of the sailor who, watching a sunset on the Sound from a high point, exclaimed: "I never knew what was meant by the "Glory of God" until I saw the sun go down from the top of Sitka's Russian Hill." We had been for several hours steaming through Peril Strait when gradually the waterway widened and islands appeared as if floating upon the cellophane sea, a Xochimilco of the North. Between these islands were glassy vistas stretching away to the blue sky or to the feet of mighty mountains around whose summits were circlets of clouds like furs of ermine or polar bear. At last off to our right, Mount Edgecumbe arose from the sea, the Fujiama of Alaska, and we knew that the old Russian capital was close. It was not long after sighting Mount Edgecumbe that we rounded a cape and beheld before us the gleaming buildings of old Sitka lined up along the Sound and running back a little way up the slopes of the encircling mountains. As we drew up to the Fish Dock, I was eager to touch foot upon the land and feel the thrill of stepping upon the streets of what was once an American capital of a foreign country. Slim fishing boats rocked at peace in the harbor reminding one of old tales of whalers and hardy fishermen who had braved the dangers of the wild Pacific. Sitka is rapidly becoming Americanized. As the floods of tourists flow over its board streets and along its enchanted pathways, it will gradually become just another northern city. Now, however, many of the memories of the Russian occupation remain as do the marks of the native Indians who inhabited the coast long before Alexander Baranof, the little iron manager of the Russian company, came to America back in 1799. Sitka Sound has changed not at all in the past one hundred thirtyodd years, and certain landmarks have changed little since the Russians established a fort on the present site of Sitka about 1804, after their first settlement at Old Fort Sitka had been destroyed by the Indians. Baranof named the new town Archangel Gabriel and erected his castle upon the bluff upon which had 540 stood an Indian stronghold. From that castle made of logs overlooking the Sound he ruled the Russian colonies in America until he was recalled in 1818. The name New Archangel Gabriel was gradually changed to Sitka, the name of an Indian tribe that lived in the vicinity. Under the rule of the Russians the city grew and prospered becoming a metropolis of the northwestern coast of America. SITKA, in those days, was not a woman's town, although a few women horse-backed across Siberia and sailed over Bering Sea in order to accompany their husbands to this new land. "We fear neither God, man, or the Devil," boasted the Russian trappers when Baranof landed. "'I,' answered the quiet level-eyed Baranof, 'combine that trinity in myself.' And single-handed he began to put the fear of all three, not only in his rivals, but also in his subordinates." Quoted from Barrett Willoughby in "Sitka Portal to Romance." A lonely and half-savage country ruled by such a man would not be a lady's natural habitat and yet it is said that the Russians had some beautiful parties and lived an interesting social life. After Baranof's time more women came, among them the beautiful young princess Aglaida Ivanovna Maksoutova, wife of a Russian captain. She died in her twenty-eighth year in a room in Baranof castle and was buried in the old cemetery at Sitka. Her husband later became Governor of Alaska under Russian rule and was in charge when the transfer was made to the United States in 1867. It is said that a costly stone was carried across Siberia and the sea to mark the grave of the beautiful princess but that after the United States RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE withdrew her troops the Indians defaced the stone and carried it away. Later, it is said, a Lieutenant in the United States' Marine Service sought out the unmarked grave and set up the present stone upon which are these words: Here rests the body of Princess Aglaida Ivanovna Maksoutova Wife of a Captain of 2nd rank Born in the year 1834 Died Dec. 18th, 1862- There are old tales of tender romances and intrigues floating around Sitka, and as one stands and gazes at the old, old church and the old, old "Governor's Walk,' now Lincoln Street, he can dream them all over again. HE castle and the Princess are gone as are Baranof and the Russian governors who succeeded him in 1818, but history and tradition are peculiar; they cling to old cities and to old shrines like ivy to CHURCH OF ST. MICHAELS BUILT IN 1817 SITKA THE ENCHANTED CITY a wall. As we strolled up the board walk to the main street of the town on that long day in June, the shadows of the past were thick around us making Sitka no mere city of the present, but a city of the romantic past—a City of Enchantment. The little Russian church now, as ever, dominates the city. Standing in the middle of the main thoroughfare, it acts as a breaker for the tides of tourists who, whenever a ship lands, pour up the little street. Usually they scatter through the curio stores lining the street, into the Post Office, the picture studios, and down the side streets to the shore where the houses grace the small islands reached by long, lumber drives laid on pilings. But a goodly number always enter the church of St. Michael to see the treasures of the years which have been garnered there. When the Russians first colonized America they had no church in this land, but they looked forward to the time when a father would come over the sea to care for the flock and to establish a place of worship. At last their prayers seemed about to be answered. They learned that a ship, the "Neva," was rounding the Horn on a world cruise to bring them a shepherd and various religious robes, pictures, and images dear to the Russian heart. It was in consternation, therefore, that on a stormy day in 1813 they saw a row-boat limping into the harbor manned by a few half-dead sailors who told them the sad story of the foundering of the little ship and the loss of the priest and most of those on board just when their goal was almost in sight. Baranof searched the coast, but few survivors were found; however, up from the sea, as if it had been miraculously preserved, came a precious silver image of St. Michael the Archangel. Baranof immediately set 541 about building a church. In 1817 it was finished, the battered image of St. Michael finding haven in its sacred precincts. It is there today revered by priests, natives, and tourists alike and along with it are almost countless other precious and sacred works of art. It is reported that J. P. Morgan once offered $25,000.00 for a single painting and was refused. We paused before the church. Here was tradition embodied. Here was history written in wood and bronze and old lace and silver. FROM the church, Mrs. Merrill and I strolled down a side street and soon found ourselves in front of a lovely home built upon one of the innumerable tiny islands in the Sound. It had its shrubbery and its flowers, the climate being in range about like that of Washington, D. C. It also had its touch of modernity—a garage reached by a plank roadway over the water. We returned to St. Michael's and took the walk to the right along the shore—the route often taken by Baranof and his Russian companions of a century ago as well! As by his hundreds of successors. This path led to the park and Lover's Lane, famous throughout the entire Northwest. As we walked along we saw a small group of young. People from the ship encircling a large flat stone. Upon our appreach they told us that it is the Blarney Stone of Sitka and that the tradition is if one will walk around it three times and then kiss its smooth surface, he will surely have speech and voice that will charm the birds from the trees. Furthermore, his wishes will come true. We obeyed, making the trip around the stone in single-file as two residents of Sitka stood by and watched the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE KISSING THE BLARNEY STONE ceremony, a smile of good-fellowship upon their faces. ESUMING our walk, we soon passed the Indian school and Museum and found ourselves approaching the park and the entrance to Lover's Lane. No automobile has ever yet desecrated the grove. Sitka has kept the place sacred to those who love the woods and find in their "venerable forms" inspiration and solace. At the entrance to the park are some magnificent totem poles placed there: by one who loved the North in its natural form—a Mr. Merrill, known in the region as the "Father of Pictures." This artist, a bird and nature-lover, according to a monument erected at the entrance to the park by an appreciative citizenry, died in 1932. I was sorry I had not gone sooner to this capital of the North, for the man had my name and I fancied, from pictures of him I had seen, a family resemblance. Ig was now late evening—it would have been pitch dark in Utah— but the sun was still slanting through the trees as we entered upon our quest for romance in Lover's Lane. This lane leads through the primeval forest between the boles of the trees of which glimpses of the glistening sound could be had. The ground was carpeted with mosses and was like velvet to our feet and like a delicate green rug to our eyes. We walked along reverently here, for the ghosts of thousands of lovers seemed to be with us in the dim woods—ghosts of Indians, Russians, Aleuts, Scandinavians, Englishmen, Spaniards, Americans. Occasionally we would come to a huge and high totem pole standing like an Indian guard of the distant past among the trees where it had been artistically placed by "The Father of Pictures." At last the lane opened up and we found ourselves beside the replica of a Russian block house gazing out SITKA THE ENCHANTED CITY upon the glistening Sound. Here truly was loveliness spread before us like a banquet. With the shadows deepening, we plunged back into the forest following another trail or the continuation of the same trail which had swerved here and turned back another way. We had gone but a short distance when we came upon a little circular clearing around which in solemn council stood several huge totem poles, their weird eyes gazing questioningly down at us from their forty feet as if we were trespassing upon sacred, native ground. We felt almost as if we should remove our shoes and tread softly in the transparent-green shadows through which only occasionally now long, level lances of sunlight were thrust. The trail now followed a little creek and we soon came to a sort of suspension bridge beyond which, we were told by a sign, an auto road was to be found. At the end of the bridge, standing guard over the ancient forest trails was a most imposing totem pole with the head of a white man 543 incongruously pictured on its top. From this bridge we soon found our way back to the entrance to the park and to the fading sunlight. BY the time we had reached the city, the sun had left the Sound and was gilding only the peaks beyond. As I walked alone down the board road to the dock where the "S. S. Northwestern" lay, (Mrs. Merrill and the others having remained in the city to make last moment purchases) a great hush—an evening hush—was upon everything. The waves had now changed to mobile glass, transparent and yet having a color that made them look fragile and likely to break into pieces at a touch. A moon had been suspended in the deepening sky, a crescent of loveliness. The mountains had become shadowy tepees of the gods—calm, eternal, possessed of a great and an abiding peace. I stopped and looked back at the little church that has watched beside the sea for more than a hundred years and up to the peaks which were there when the Russians first came to Sitka—Archangel Gabriel—and I thought how transitory is man; how eternal is the earth; how eloquent of God are sea and mountain peak. A blast from the ship's whistle suddenly shattered the tremendous silence. She was ready to leave port. I was glad, for I wished to remember Sitka, the beautiful, peaceful but visible there under the darkening peaks a pearl in a crystal of silver and blue.
As we sailed south, the mighty Pacific washing against our bows and lifting us gaily and swinging us in long, easy arcs, the moon, somehow, found a place above the glistening white brow of Mount Edgecumbe and hung there in its deepening field of blue like a crescent of promise. The shadows grew long and deep; it was with a sigh that we left old Sitka behind in its setting of emerald and turquoise—the City of Enchantment.
THE VISITING TEACHER'S PRAYER By Afton Free Baird
Give me, Oh Lord, this day, The power to do one kindly deed; Help me this day, I pray, To plant one little seed Of faith and hope within the heart Of one despondent.
Give me, Oh Lord, this day, The power to lift another's sorrow; One word of comfort say That will brighten the tomorrow Of some sad heart that ever longs For one departed.
Help me, Oh Lord, this day Unselfishly to give; Show me the way, I pray, A better life to live, For I shall dedicate this day To Thee, Oh Lord.
On the Trails of the Old Kaibab By Elsie C. Carroll
V.
HELEN was puzzled. Ought she to tell Steve who she was and claim her part of the ranch he had unwittingly admitted was hers? Should she write to Kendall, her lawyer, and ask him to come out and help solve the mystery of the cattle stealing? Should she make herself known to Uncle Billy and ask his advice? She finally decided to wait for the present, but to make friends with the people at the Park and learn all she could.
One day she called on Mrs. Carter, the woman who on the evening of her arrival had been pointed out as a gossip who knew everything about everybody. She found she could guide her hostess into any conversational channel she chose. No, Mrs. Carter hadn't known Sam Huntsman. She'd only been coming to the mountain the past five or six years. But she'd heard all about the triangle with him and Steve Heyden's father and mother. Steve's mother, she believed, had died a few years ago in a sanitarium near Salt Lake City. His father had lived only a few years after that queer accident—if it was an accident. Of course the Powell Trail was narrow in those days, but good heavens, hadn't cattle men been riding over it for years and years before, and nobody else had ever gone over.
Molly Dean? Oh yes, she knew Molly. Everybody treated her just as if she were white. She'd kept house for Steve and his father after the mother "went off" and took care of Steve just as if he'd been her own child. But no telling what she'd be now if she kept living at Tess Morely's. Hadn't Helen heard? Why, the awful creature kept open house for all the roadhands and cowboys. She oughtn't to be allowed on the mountain. No, she didn't exactly know just where Tess came from. She'd bought an abandoned rangers' cabin over in Aspen Flat and had fixed it up like a palace. Called it The Retreat—the brazen huzzy. Had couches and rugs and pictures—even a piano and radio and telephone—away out there. She kept blooded dogs and polo horses and rode all over the country just like a man; tagged along with the men with her movie camera, pretending that taking pictures was what she was interested in. Molly? Oh, yes, she had been talking about Molly. Well she was a born nurse even if she was a squaw. A kind of Indian medicine woman. She'd gone to take care of Tess three years ago when the creature was so sick—and all the men were afraid she was going to die, and all the women were afraid she wouldn't. Molly had been with her ever since, poor old thing. Of course she didn't understand what Tess was. Lon? Well, Lon was Molly's boy, working for Steve Heyden. Steve was awful good to him and if he wasn't careful Tess would get him yet through Lon. She was after Steve, everybody knew that, and she'd get him yet—offering a lot of prizes to keep the rodeo going because it was Steve's hobby. Wait until the rodeo—
HELEN wasn't so much interested in the coming rodeo as in learning what Lon was doing that day with a stranger on the opposite side of the mountain from Steve Heyden's ranch. Why not ride out to Tess Morley's place? She'd like to know this woman. Perhaps Tess, as herself, had for some reason found her environment intolerable and had fled to the freedom of the West. An attractive woman would be misjudged by such minds as Mrs. Carter's. She wanted also to know Molly Dean, the Indian woman who had mothered Steve Heyden when he was a little boy. If Russell had a map of the mountain, she'd go to Tess Morley's place the next day.
That night Bernice Hawley barely responded to Helen's greeting as the two met in the entertainment hall—jealous because Helen had been with Steve. Helen only smiled and looked about the room. Mrs. Hawley sat in a corner with Mrs. Carter, who was leaning forward, screening her mouth with one hand and looking furtively about as she talked. Helen wondered who the victim of the moment might be. She learned a moment later when she walked toward the fireplace and caught the words: "Dr. Grosbeck—the night she came—her husband." Fred had evidently made quite a stir, that night of her arrival. She dreaded her first meeting with him. Of course he would make himself a missionary to try to bring about a reconciliation between her and George.
"Mrs. Carter was just telling me that Dr. Grosbeck is a friend of yours and that he thought your husband must be with you the night you came." Mrs. Hawley said. "A man should think twice before letting as pretty a wife as you go so far away without him. I live in Salt Lake City, but I don't trust that bald-headed old man of mine out here alone."
THE dance music started. There was a stir about the door as Tess Morley entered. She was instantly surrounded by men and boys.
"I should like to meet Miss—or is it Mrs. Morley," Helen told Russell.
He seemed surprised. "Sure. Tess is an unusual person. The women all hate her like poison. But I guess that's natural, when she's so attractive to the men and can ride and rope with the best of them. And you ought to see the place she's fixed up away out here in the sticks."
"I should like to. Where is it?"
"Over in Aspen Flat—about twenty miles from here. Just a nice ride. You'll have to get one of the fellows to take you over some day. Come on I'll make you acquainted with her. You two might be friends."
Tess' black hair was parted in the middle and pinned severely back in a shining coil at the nape of her neck. Her skin was smooth and brown. She wore no rouge, but her lips, habitually parted in a smile that revealed white, even teeth, were painted a deep orange to match her earrings, bracelet, and nail polish. Her eyes, dark and heavily lashed, revealed her capacity for intense feeling either of love or hate.
"Hello, Wood," she said. "Where are all the fellows?"
"Aren't they all here?" he laughed, waving to the group about her.
She means Steve, thought Helen, and wondered why she resented the fact.
"This is Mrs. Latimer from Chicago, Tess. She is going to spend the summer with us. Mrs. Morley."
The woman looked at Helen with cool indifference. "How do you do." She was about to turn to one of the men at her side when Helen said, "I have heard so much of your unusual summer home, Mrs. Morley. I wonder if you won't invite me out to see it sometime?"
Tess seemed surprised at her friendliness, but she did not respond. Instead she looked at her with an air of suspicion. "I doubt if you would be interested, but come if you'd like to. It isn't far." But there was no cordiality in her forced invitation. Helen, however, was determined not to be defeated in her new purpose. She must find out about Lon Dean, and how could she do it better than by becoming acquainted with his mother?
"I understand you have an unusual Indian woman for your housekeeper. Do you know, I have never seen a squaw?"
"She had better be careful about calling Molly a squaw, hadn't she, Wood?"
"That's right. Neither Molly nor Lon consider themselves Indians."
The music started again and Tess went onto the floor with Ham Grimes who swayed with a rhythm inspired more by alcohol than by the orchestra. Helen resented the woman's incivility, but she was undaunted in her plan to see The Retreat and to meet Molly Dean.
THE next morning Russell gave her a map of the mountain and pointed out Tess' place. He showed her two ways she might go. The road was plainly marked on the map, but there was a trail more direct. Steve's horse was brought for her, and Helen rode out of Pleasant Valley. The ride through the trees was glorious. The road led her from ridge to ridge, each very much like the one before. Finally she reached the top of one and saw The Retreat below her. The original rangers' cabin had been enlarged, wings added to the south and west. The house was painted white with green trimmings and there were white fences and trellises for roses and vines. The building was surrounded by rock gardens, grottos, and beds of perennials. Strewn throughout the grounds were garden-chairs, tables, hammocks and bright umbrellas. Picturesque as the place was, it seemed incongruous. The rough log buildings at the V. T. Park seemed more in keeping with the surroundings.
For a little while she sat in her saddle with no definite plans. She only knew that she had come hoping to learn something about Lon Dean, whom she felt was in some way connected with the cattle thieves. But she had no idea how to proceed now she was here. The place seemed deserted. Tess Morley with her camera was probably with the rangers Helen had heard were going to mark trees to be taken from the forest.
At last she rode down to the house and dismounted. She would try to find Molly Dean. She was fastening Maje to a hitching post when she heard a horse coming down the ridge opposite her. In a moment the rider came into view. He was small and dark and was hunched over the pommel of his saddle. He wore no hat and his head was bound with a red bandana handkerchief. Helen looked with growing excitement as he came nearer. At last she was sure it was Lon. It was evident that he was injured. His hands had dropped the bridle reins and were clinging to the saddle, and he swayed dangerously as his horse descended the rough trail. When the horse reached the foot of the ridge he walked to a gate at the south side of the house and stopped. Helen heard the rider groan as he lurched in the saddle. As she started toward him, a door of the cabin opened and a fat dark woman in a bright print dress hurried down the path. The two women reached the boy at the same moment.
Molly was too intent on her son to pay much attention to Helen. At sight of his face, covered with dried blood, and the wild fevered look in his eyes, she emitted a queer guttural cry. Helen could not be sure whether it was of anger or pity. The boy slid from the saddle and stood clinging weakly to the horse's mane. Molly shook him gently and demanded, "What matter? You get more bad whisky?"
The boy roused himself and shook his head. "No. Hurt. Try find about cattle thieves. They think I tell and knock me in head. I got to find Steve—but—I—" He swayed and would have fallen had not Molly caught him. Helen helped her get him to the porch. He was burning with fever. His eyes had a wild expression again. He kept muttering. She caught a few words—"calves—cave—House Rock—Canyon Rim," but she could make nothing of it. Her first impulse was to hurry away to find Steve, but the boy was desperately ill. She must help Molly care for him. They got him to a couch on the porch and Molly brought water and bandages from the house. She took the colored handkerchief from his head, revealing a deep, jagged gash near his right temple.
"There is a doctor at Bright Angel," Helen said as Molly worked. "I'll go back to the Park and telephone for him."
"Yes. Quick. He hurt bad." Helen started toward her horse. The Indian woman called after her. "Find Steve, too. Tell him 'bout thieves."
Helen hurried back over the trail, trying to think what could have happened to Lon and how his injury might be connected with the cattle-stealing mystery. She would telephone to Fred Grosbeck as soon as she reached the hotel and then try to find House Rock Valley. Could she find Steve's ranch from the map Russell had given her, or would she have to ask the hotel proprietor for a guide? From Steve's behavior on the day they had seen Lon with the red bearded stranger, she knew he desired to keep what was happening secret. Evidently he had some plan upon which he was working.
SHE was riding as fast as she dared along the rocky trail when she became aware that another horseman was coming toward her through the trees at her right. It was Bernice Hawley. How pretty she was in her red shirt and khaki trousers, her yellow curls and wide sombrero framing her face—a bright dryad of the woods. She joined Helen on the trail. Helen greeted her genially. The girl's dislike for her was only foolish jealousy because Steve had taken her to Point Sublime. She would cultivate the child's friendship.
"Do you know I almost called you Bernice. There's something about this country that makes one want to do away with formalities."
"That's what everybody says," Bernice looked questioningly back over the trail. "Isn't Steve with you?"
"No. I haven't seen him since the day he took me to see Point Sublime. I wish you had gone with us; it was a marvelous experience for me. I suppose, though, you have seen the canyon so often it doesn't affect you as it does a stranger."
"I wasn't invited to go," Bernice pouted childishly.
"You should have come along anyway. This is a free country, isn't it?" She could see the girl's hostility giving way. "Steve doesn't like me around. He acts as if I'm nothing but a baby."
"What's your name?"
"You'll laugh. It's Sammy—Sammy Latimer. I was named for my father. But everybody calls me Helen."
No wonder Steve called Bernice a pest.
"You're a widow aren't you?"
"No."
"What did you come out here for?"
"Why, to see the country of course."
Bernice was silent a moment, studying Helen critically. "Steve'd fall for your type a lot quicker than he would for Tess Morley's," she said glumly.
"What a child you are. Steve Heyden isn't the kind of a man who'd be falling in love with any married woman."
The mention of Steve reminded Helen of her grim errands. "I must hurry to the hotel and send a doctor to Lon Dean," she said. And urged her horse on.
(To be continued)
A "MARTHA" SPEAKS By Maryhale Woolsey
I have not beauty, eyes to charm Beneath a ballroom's gala light, —But I can keep a hearthside warm And snug, against a wintry night;
I have not brilliance, minds to thrill In halls where great and wise folk meet, —But I can place a chair just right, With hassock for one's tired feet.
A house palatial, servant-filled, I might not competently rule; —But I can serve a tempting meal, And make a bed smooth, clean, and cool...
And you, my dear, when glitter palls —Wearying body, mind, and heart, Will find my love-kept fireside Life's sweetest and most precious part.
The Lure of Something Green By Mabel S. Harmer
FOR years I have tried to alibi myself out of keeping house plants. My south windows are inadequate to care for many plants. And I always have a guilty conscience when I deprive them of sufficient sunshine by putting them anywhere else. If I go away for a vacation they are harder to dispose of than either the canary or the children and I usually end up by bribing some kind neighbor to come in and give them an occasional drink and then I worry all the time as to whether she has remembered to lock the back door after her or if I shall come home and find all the silverware missing. What with babies, housework and itinerant scribbling, I really haven't time to take care of them properly, nevertheless, I simply cannot resist the lure of something green.
Patricia has reached the dignity of six years and the first reader and now only once in a great while sends my favorite plant crashing to the floor, but Alan will shortly be walking and I know with an awful certainty that he will exhibit the same fondness for examining the soil in my flower pots that his older brothers and sisters have done with the same dire results to my carpets. And still I persist in putting things in pots or tin cans as the case may be and feeling an exaggerated sense of pride when they grow into presentable looking plants. Lately I have read that "house plants are very essential units in modern home decoration" and since then I feel that my efforts are entirely justified. Nevertheless, I have a great deal of respect for the person strong minded enough to say, "No, I won't be bothered with house plants." There have been times when I have made resolutions to that effect myself but I have never kept them going. Just when things were going along nicely some kind soul was sure to present me with something or other in a pot and as long as I had one to care for I felt that I might as well have others and so the whole story would begin all over again.
But then, there is probably that in all of us that sooner or later longs for the sight of something green and growing in the house. The difficulty, of course, is to keep it green and growing. Outdoor plants will, to some extent, shift for themselves but as soon as they are brought inside they depend upon you for water, for care and for the right amount of heat and sunshine. They are a tremendous responsibility. Having once taken them under your roof, they demand that you allow them to suffer no neglect.
A GENERATION ago when steam heat was not so universally used and before fresh air was allowed generally to all rooms, house plants thrived wonderfully. They enjoy nothing better than a nice stuffy room where there is a lot of moisture to condense and run down the window pane. If one wishes to be very hospitable to plants, a home in a south window of a kitchen where there is a coal or electric range and where the air is moist from steam will be most appreciated. Unfortunately the kitchen isn't the place where one usually wants them nor can gas ranges be tossed lightly aside for the benefit of the plants. Gas is the sworn enemy of the house plant and after that comes dryness of the air. The latter is easily overcome by merely keeping the earth in the pots watered. Plants, like people, breathe through their pores and the air in many homes is too dry for both of them. Some hot air furnaces have excellent humidifiers which helps to overcome this condition. Water pans kept on radiators will help to moisten the air to some extent. A better way to help the plants is to stand the pots in a shallow pan with about an inch of water in it, raising them on a layer of pebbles so that the water reaches only to the base of the pots. The constant evaporation will keep the air moist and the plants healthy. These pans need not be unsightly. A long narrow baking pan painted green is quite attractive or the flower pots may be placed in separate pottery bowls. When the air is moist, the plants will require less water for their roots.
The expert can tell whether a plant needs watering by rapping on the pot with the knuckles; if it sends forth a ringing sound, the earth inside is dry. The inexperienced gardener, like myself, however, finds out by digging into the earth with her fingers. A plant that is flowering or making active growth needs more water than at other times. It is entirely possible to be too generous in this regard and give the plants more water than they require. One almost has to become acquainted with individual plants in order to learn their needs. If the leaves turn yellow and droop, too much water is being given.
Even with water at their roots and water in the air, the plants are not yet satisfied. They like to have a good bath twice a week. It is best to set them in a tub or deep sink and spray the leaves thoroughly on both sides with tepid water. Let the pots stand for about ten minutes in water nearly up to the rims so that the earth can become well saturated. Then take them out and drain them off, removing dead leaves and stems at the same time.
The regular earthenware pot is not the best receptacle for a plant because it is porous and dries out very quickly. Tin cans are really preferable or old saucepans with the handles removed. Drainage holes must be provided, of course, and they should be painted in attractive colors.
House plants soon become susceptible to drafts and cold air. The English Ivy will survive all sorts of weather out in the garden but once it has been taken under your kind protection in the house it will freeze if placed near an open window in zero weather. If it is necessary to open a window near where plants are kept, it is best to move them first to another part of the room. If the window is closed, a drawn shade will usually be protection enough for the plants but on very cold nights it is wise to use the extra precaution of placing several thicknesses of newspaper between the plants and the window. If the plant freezes in spite of all your precautions, move it to a cool place and let it stand for a few days without being watered. Then cut off all the shriveled leaves and stems. Even if the entire plant has to be cut away, it will usually grow again.
A more disagreeable enemy to cope with than the cold is the army of small pests that seeks to find dwelling places in your plants. Aphids or green flies seem partial to many plants and then there is the horrid little white mealy bug that snuggles down into the hollows of the stems. The aphids can be destroyed by spraying the plant frequently and thoroughly with soapy water followed by a clear water rinse. The mealy bugs have to be dislodged with a wooden sliver.
Don't be too anxious to repot flowers. Unless a plant is very crowded it is best to leave it undisturbed. Instead of moving the entire plant just take out some of the top soil and replace with a fresh soil using a mixture of loam, leaf mold and sand. It is best to make any changes in the spring or early fall. Spring is also the best time to make cuttings or root divisions. Some plants, such as the geranium for instance, will give better results if fresh plants are started every year from the old ones.
Perhaps you have wondered why the lovely plant which comes from the florist droops so quickly. This is because its growth has been forced in the greenhouse and all its strength used up. If it is a plant which will keep for another year it can be saved by cutting it back entirely after it is through blossoming and then allowing it to rest a few weeks without much water. Often fresh growth will start again from the roots.
If one does not care to go in very extensively for the raising of "proper" plants, there is something very fascinating about the process of taking a common vegetable or dull brown seed, putting it in soil or water and presently seeing a lovely green plant spring into life. Among the vegetables that lend themselves to gardening for beauty as well as utility are the carrot, beet, horse-radish and sweet potato. Each one of these will produce a plant worthy of a place in any living room. If your choice is one of the first three named, you cut away all but about one inch from the top of the root and place it in a dish filled with fibre or pebbles and water. The carrot will provide a green fern-like plant, the beet will bring forth a glossy red and green foliage and the horse-radish will produce a tall, picturesque plant of vivid green. The sweet potato asks for nothing more than a bowl of water. It is best to use a small, fairly deep bowl. Toothpicks stuck in the sides of the potato and resting on the brim of the bowl will support the tuber so that it is half way in the water. Here again there will be a beautiful combination of red and green in the leaves and stems.
The seed of an avocado will send forth leaves resembling those of a poinsettia when planted in a deep vase or a bottle of water. The seed stays at the top of the water. The seeds of gourds or of grapefruit will also make pretty growth. They require soil for their beds and respond gratefully to abundant water and sunshine.
The woman who complains that "plants simply will not grow for me" usually just has another way of saying "I can't be bothered giving plants their proper care." She can still have something green around the house, however, by planting some vines. The English Ivy, for instance, will grow almost anywhere in the house and requires no care except a daily watering, which is little enough for any plant to ask. It is possible to create some very attractive effects by the use of vines. They can be placed at the top of the window on an especially built shelf and will form a most unusual and summery curtain. A trailing vine in a wall bracket is also delightfully effective. A clever new idea is embodied in the small white china figures, each with a receptacle for a tiny plant, which can be purchased at the five and dime stores. Never have I seen anything more charming than the boy with the wheelbarrow containing one little violet plant.
House plants, after all, are like children, music lessons and many other worth while things. They are a lot of trouble and take quite a good deal of time but they repay many times over the efforts spent in their behalf.
The Coveted "A" Class By Clara Perman
"IT'S almost time for school, Bobby," I said to my young son who was looking out the window. "Here's your report card all signed and ready. Tell Miss Brown that your mother thought it was splendid."
"Okay, mummy, I was just waiting to see if Patsy was coming. She was sure scared to go home, said her mother would be awful mad about her card. She had all III's and IV's—but, of course, she's in the "A" class and it's lots harder work there!"
I knew that sooner or later he would realize that the "A" class did superior work; but I never wanted it to interfere with his happiness, the confidence he had in his own ability; so, as I took care of that stubborn top button on his coat, I said, emphatically, "But the "B" class is doing mighty fine work, too. Just think of all the things you have learned this term!"
"I'll say!" he smiled back at me and dashed off happily.
HE was no sooner out the door than Mrs. Hall, Patsy's mother, appeared all hatted and coated and ready to go some place. "I wonder if you'd like to visit school with me this afternoon," she said, "Patsy brought an abominable report card home today and I'm going up there to see what's wrong."
I remembered what Bob had said about Patsy—afraid to go home. Having taught school for several years, I thought I might be of some help to this new neighbor. I put on my wraps and we started out. She was all stirred up, I could see, and at once began to spill over, "You know, I'm going to tell that teacher a thing or two; she wants to put Patsy back in the "B" class. Now Patsy had the highest IQ of any in the group when she was tested and why don't her grades show it?"
I knew of several reasons why this might happen; but she was so irate I felt that I would have to be very tactful. "How did you know about her IQ?" I asked softly, "I thought they never gave out that information."
"Oh, one of the students in the psychology class tested Patsy and told me. Of course, I had been teaching Patsy at home because I didn't want her to go up there and not know anything. So she got into the "A" class all right and, believe me, I'm not letting them put her back, either. I can help her at home so that she can keep up."
I was beginning to see where the difficulty lay and my pity went out to the child to whom this grave injustice was being done; but I decided not to draw conclusions until I had visited the school. The "B" class was reciting first. Although I'll have to admit I would secretly have preferred that Bob could walk out with the class that had tested a higher intelligence, I knew how small a part pure mentality really counts toward success. I certainly wasn't going to let it worry me or worry him, for the worry of the mother always reflects in the child. I saw him happy and interested in his work with a firm grasp upon all the material presented. He was developing a definite leadership without dominating, seemed to be well liked by his classmates. When the children were set to work by themselves, he attacked his job earnestly and intelligently. I was well satisfied.
Then the "A" class was called. Patsy was decidedly embarrassed, nervous, which resulted in hysterical giggling. With absolutely no interest in her work she stumbled along showing an unmistakable inferiority to the other members in her group. As she could get no attention by good work she attempted to get it by annoying the other children and it was plain to be seen that they heartily disliked her. When she was called upon to recite, her face at once became drawn, strained; a deep wrinkle formed between the eyes. Patsy was a very unhappy child—and it was due to maladjustment because of a mother who didn't understand.
Surely now Mrs. Hall could see that she had been wrong, I thought, but after school I found that she did not; but insisted that Patsy was just lazy and silly, should be made to stop that foolishness and get right down to business. "Well, we'll try her a while longer," said the teacher resignedly. I could tell that she disliked to put the child in a lower division, knowing the mother's attitude; for Patsy would at once be made to feel that she was in utter disgrace. An absolute stigma seemed to be attached to anyone working in the "B" class.
I like to be friends with my neighbors and wanted to avoid any hard feelings, so as we walked home I was wondering just what I could say to this mother in order to avert the tragedy which I saw was overtaking little Patsy. In the first place Mrs. Hall had deliberately coached Patsy so that she would make a high IQ and be put in the coveted "A" class. This was her first injustice toward the child.
THE only possible value that can be attached to the IQ is its significance in the field of education, and here it is most certainly not to be discredited. The purpose of the test is to determine the original endowment of children. Each child is then placed in the school group where he can work to his maximum capacity without being unduly taxed or not sufficiently taxed. The slow child will not be humiliated by constant defeat because of unfair competition and finally give up in despair; nor will the superior child be allowed to develop that overbearing conceit which comes as a result of constantly comparing himself with the slower children. The fast child will not be held back by the slower one, which may cause the development of lazy habits for—"Even genius languishes when kept overlong at tasks that are too easy."
Teachers take the IQ only as an indicator, not as a criterion. There is no test that tests native ability absolutely. The test measures intellectual capacity indirectly. It is really mental behavior that is measured and this is conditioned not only by native endowment but by experience and training. Now if the other children in Patsy's "A" class had been given the same training that Patsy had been given previous to the test, they might have absorbed this same knowledge in a much shorter period of time and with much less effort. Naturally, in school they would soon overtake Patsy and in no time at all would be far ahead. The teacher in this case was alert to find any discrepancy in the grouping that might make for maladjustment but was hindered by a mother who would sacrifice her child's whole life because of her pride in that "A" class rating.
A mother may dislike to have her child changed to a lower division because of the keen disappointment she feels he will suffer. Her attitude will have a great deal to do with alleviating any such feeling. If she says quietly, "Miss _____ and I have decided that you will be happier working with this other group," and passes it off lightly with no insinuations as to the disgrace of being put back he will feel it very little, and if at all, but a few days, then it is forgotten. He will be a much happier child, and be doing far better work. The feeling of the lower division toward the higher division is much the same that we have when we start for an outing in our little inexpensive car. A big Model de Luxe may pass us easily in all its splendor. For a moment we may look upon it with envy—but most certainly it isn't going to spoil our little picnic. There is happiness for everybody—if he is where he belongs.
COACHING the child constantly in order to keep him with a higher group is unfair. Too much energy is exerted in study which should be used for play or rest. Both his physical and mental powers will be undermined rather than strengthened. All of this coaching does not add one iota to his mental endowment. He hasn't the acumen for grasping ideas as quickly in class, and may begin to feel that he is not like the other children, something is wrong with him. This leads to loss of confidence, instability, and often a child is forced into a lonesome little dream world of his own, because he hates school.
Laziness, of course, must never be tolerated. Every means should be employed to see that a child is doing his best work. However, it must be remembered that there is a maximum for each child and he cannot be forced to exceed it. It is often highly commendable that a parent help a child with homework, if it is done under the teacher's guidance. The parents can do much to arouse the child's interests, increase his powers of concentration and attention, keep him enthusiastic, spontaneous, thrilled with each new adventure. No child should be unhappy in this world where so much beauty and so many sources of joy have been bestowed. It is the child who goes through life looking through dull drab windows that is to be pitied.
PARENTS often expect too much of a child because they have been informed of a high IQ which is erroneous. The Stanford-Binet Test, which is used extensively for finding the IQ, many times finds its way into the hands of those not sufficiently trained to give it. Yet the IQ will be given out glibly and taken seriously by the parents. Results from this test should never be considered valid until the method of procedure and scoring has been learned to the minutest detail; a general acquaintance with the nature of the test is by no means sufficient. Absolutely perfect conditions should be insured. Even then the problem of maturity of the eye, mathematical ability rather than a readiness for reading may keep a very bright child from doing the type of work comparable with a high IQ during the first few years of school.
THIS idea that pure mentality is of such importance has been greatly exaggerated. In the game of life the child's temperament, disposition, persistence, physical alertness all taken together make up a personality that will determine success or failure. Those of us whose children make up the "B" classes may glean a bit of satisfaction from the statistics which show the great number of successful business men, prima donnas, artists, famous doctors, not to mention inventors now placed in the genius ranking, who have come out of a little "B" class. But we must ever keep in mind that they became successful because their enthusiasms and talents were not entirely killed by a constant insistence that they make the coveted "A" class. The talents have been distributed by a higher power than our own and we must be content. It is the wise, judicious mother who sees that her child does not bury his talent under a load of censure, but finds joy in the "well done" which comes from getting the most from that with which he has been endowed.
MOTHER-FRIEND By Edna J. Gardiner
God gave me a friend that I might see Something of His Divinity. A friend where grief and joy are one, To have, to share, till life is done.
God gave me a friend so sweet and mild Who could open her arms to a little child; A friend to heed the age-old plea Let little children come to me.
God gave me a friend whose charm and grace Lent halo to the commonplace. A friend whose kindly thought and deed Was manna in my time of need.
God gave me a friend in life's dark hour, A staff, with all sustaining power; A friend for whom my prayers ascend God make me worthy of my friend.
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
SEPTEMBER—Nature rich in color, melody and fruitage, o'ershadowed by fleecy clouds warns to labor and to love. How beautiful are life's lessons if only we were wise enough to understand the loving kindness of the Lord.
MADAM MINISTER Ruth Bryan Owen shows her pronounced femininity by retaining in her official and literary work the name under which she gained her distinction, only using the name and title of Captain Boerge Rhode to whom she was married last July, for court and social circles.
QUEEN MARIE of Rumania with her daughter, Ileana, Princess of Hapsburg, is vacationing in England, her native land.
A DARING Texas girl pointed out to the self-sufficient Bernard Shaw, a mistake in history data in his Saint Joan. He acknowledged the error, but wondered why she took twelve years to tell him. Probably no one else dared and she was scarcely old enough.
AMELIA EARHART, America's favorite sportswoman, has been presented with a trophy in recognition of her outstanding solo flight from Honolulu to the mainland in 1935, by the Woman's International Association of Aeronautics. Not having any more oceans to cross, Miss Earhart is now engaging in research work, studying human reactions to flying.
MRS. VIOLET VAN DER ELST, wealthy English woman will open a campaign this month in America against capital punishment for which she is prepared to spend a fortune. She believes in severe punishment for the guilty but not in "legalized murder."
HELEN STEPHENS recaptured the women's 100-meter sprint crown for America at the World's Olympic in Berlin this summer.
ELSIE JANIS, noted actress, has decided to give all her worldly possessions for charity. She wants to do something worth while before she dies and is especially interested in the poor and child welfare.
A WOMEN'S dress museum has been opened in London. The collection comprises about 1500 dresses of every style and texture. There are dresses worn by queens, professional beauties, and peasants. Truly a study in periods for the stylists.
NORMA SHEARER as Juliet, has been called the miracle of Hollywood. Shakespeare's tragic love story has been made to live again by her magic art.
MRS. LIZZIE THOMAS EDWARD, one of the leading singers and conductors of women's choirs in Utah, died last month. Mrs. Edward was musical director of the Relief Society choir for nearly thirty years.
Religious Verse of Alice Freeman Palmer By George H. Palmer*
I PRINT here a little group of poems written by a busy woman of affairs. To most of those who knew her it will be a surprise to find that Mrs. Palmer was a poet. It was a surprise to me, perhaps to herself. For though a strange power of radiating light and warmth was felt by all who approached her, she devoted her brief years to occupations far from poetic, occupations calling chiefly for practical sagacity. Yet such work, too, she ennobled. Other persons engaging in it often become mechanical. It was precisely her distinction that she was never conquered by routine. Every day she brought fresh interest to each labor, and so maintained a rich personal life through all publicity. When in later years that life began to express itself in verse, one could see that the faith, romance, and passion for beauty, which here at hastily snatched moments received poetic form, had been all along the deep inspiration of commoner tasks.
How multifold, however, and seemingly alien those tasks were, a brief enumeration will show. She took a leading part in organizing two large colleges, both experimental and of widely unlike types. For twelve years, as a member of the State Board of Education, she was engaged in reconstructing the Normal Schools of Massachusetts. She was for a time the president of a great missionary society. During the last third of her life she was associated on many committees with lawyers and business men seeking civic and social reform. In numberless ways she devoted herself to enlarging the opportunities for women to obtain a higher education. As a speaker she was listened to with pleasure and conviction. Her correspondence was enormous, for she was consulted by persons of responsible position from one end of the country to the other. In this advisory capacity she had steady need of watchfulness and tact to keep herself clear of schemers—sometimes of a selfish, more often of an unbalanced, sort—who were ever ready to hitch their rickety wagons to her auspicious star. Throughout all these complicated public duties she was still masterly in housekeeping, lavish in friendship, charming in all domestic and social graces. No one found her hurried, but peace and the blessed sunshine seemed ever to attend her. It is hard to see how a woman doing in this elaborate way the work of several men, and at the same time living with singular fullness the usual life of her sex, could find leisure to gain the technical training required by the most exacting of the arts. And probably it would have been impossible if it had not been for what I may call Mrs. Palmer's habit of instantaneous excellence.
In small things or in large it was characteristic of her to take no wrong roads. She seemed to have the bird's instinct for finding her way through unknown regions to the significant spot. Rarely did work of hers have on it the fumbling marks of the amateur. Bring a bicycle to her door for the first time and she would ride it at once. Give her a camera, and her earliest photographs would be exquisite. The same easy mastery was hers in managing a refractory committee of the Legislature or in installing a heating plant. To forget herself, to observe, to submit her mind to the conditions before her, to let her powers be invigorated rather than abashed by the presence of needs, and to hit nothing but the mark, these were daily habits which enabled her to accomplish astonishing results. Excellence was her province. She settled in it and made herself cheerfully at home there.
From childhood she was fond of verse, and her acquaintance with the long line of English poets became extensive and critical. She loved much of the earlier poetry which is now little read. I was often surprised when reading with her to see how her hospitable and precise taste would discriminate the good from the middling in authors with whom she was only then becoming acquainted. Seldom was she misled by hazy thought or dazzling diction. She found poetry rather in situations than in words, and the true poet was he who could let her see those situations clearly.
That she was in the habit of writing verse herself I did not know until the year before her death. On her last wedding anniversary in America she brought me a volume of twenty poems celebrating our happy life in the country. In Paris, a few days before her death, she told me she had intended to expand this into a sort of marriage cycle. Among her papers I found many such poems of Love and Nature, most of them too personal for publication. With them, however, were certain hymns and religious verses, which seem to me to possess a peculiar combination of simplicity, depth, and veracity. These qualities may give them general interest.
Religious verse, strangely enough, is apt to lack veracity. Even when impassioned, it easily falls into conventional diction. The human mind has difficulty in facing God alone, and offering to him its very feelings. In that august presence it inclines to lean on its fellows, and to employ general proprieties to help out its own special utterance. But Mrs. Palmer was herself everywhere. She
*Published in "The Outlook" of January 16, 1904, used by permission of "The New Outlook." had no society manners. Even toward superiors she used respectful boldness. In these poems there is, accordingly, a rare genuineness. They record the veritable ingredients of a single mood of mind. And this inner dignity often gives rise to felicity of phrase. There is, however, no curiousness. The lines are swift, of unimpeded flow; but freshness of thought marks the words, and leaves them singing in the ear after the line is ended. I am sure it would be much against her judgment to call these poems great, or even to have them printed. She told me that all she had written were but sketches, and had better be burned. But I believe that this selected exhibit of a collateral and occasional interest' in the life of one so widely loved is justified by the fair degree of technical merit, the naturalness and appealing power of the poems, and the support they are likely to afford to true religious feeling. I may add that several of those here given were written during an illness which followed a serious accident, and all of them during the last five-years of her life—(The Outlook, January 16, 1904.) Poems included in this article and found in our text book are: The Tempest. Nightfall. Acquaintance With Grief The Glory Of The World. On a Gloomy Easter. The Butterfly. A Communion Hymn. "Suffocation" and "The Singing Heart" are published herewith. SUFFOCATION By Alice Freeman Palmer I cannot bear your violin tonight, It sobs and wails with pain; Down the piano-keys the tears drop-light, Put out the lamps again. Some moments come when poetry and song Are far too sad for me, When music's chords beat on my heart too strong, I cannot breathe or see! Let me go out under the steadfast stars, So many and so still, And soothe my spirit beating on its bars, And think on Heaven's sweet will. Night unto night, dear God, thy glory tells, Thy stars together sing! Such music all my heart with rapture swells, As birds in early spring! THE SINGING HEART By Alice Freeman Palmer I wonder why I am so glad today! My friends have gone away— Some in the country, some by the salt sea, Some in the mountains,— All are gone from me. And some are sick, and some are very sad, And yet I am so glad! Why should I feel so glad and well and strong? Sickness has left me weak, and pain for long Has kept me silent, constant company; But now my heart is singing joyously; No task would be too heavy, no pain bad Today, I am so glad! Why is the world so sweet and fair just now? Men stagger to their work with aching brow. The little children gasp in the foul street, The great, tired city throbs with parching heat, Yet I can drink cool winds from far away, I am so glad today! Can I be lonely, sick, or sad again? I will go out to heal my brother's pain, To help and succor in the world's distress; So blest, great Love, by thee, I too will bless, And in dark days to come will think alway How glad I was today! The Relief Check By Sadie Ollorton Clark THE first time Elizabeth accepted the Relief check, she rushed to her bedroom and slammed the door behind her so that the children should not see her tears of shame and humiliation. Twice she almost tore the pink slip in half, but the knowledge that Melvin, her eleven-year-old son had no shoes for the approaching winter, and that Robert, seventeen, and the oldest of her seven children, could not finish high school without a little necessary money, kept her from it. Other people took it without any pretense of shame, and few had as many mouths to feed with as little to give them as she, although, she reflected bitterly, she was glad that she was ashamed. Somehow it set her apart from the mob that so regularly collected on the steps of the Relief Headquarters building. She was disappointed rather than surprised when her husband accepted the check calmly enough. She handed it to him saying, "I suppose this is the first time a Galbraith ever accepted charity." But he said simply, "Well, other people get it and we need it worse than any of them. And if it helps your pride any, you can remember you aren't a Galbraith now. You're a Hardin." Tears sprang again to her red eyes and her temper flared. "Of course it isn't such a step down for a Hardin to take charity," she cried. "I suppose some members of your family have been on the city dole since the town was settled. Your brothers and your sister were the first to go on Relief here! They are all shiftless and poor! But I wasn't raised that way. I shouldn't have to be humiliated like this!" "That's just your Galbraith pride," he said evenly. "When you're poor you have to forget about things like that. As for my family, you must remember that your children are my family too!" "That's the reason I feel so badly. What will become of them? And it is just because you are lazy. You blame conditions instead of your own indolence when you don't want to work. Why haven't you plowed the land this year? Why have you let our best cows die from neglect this summer? Our land is mortgaged and we've hardly a herd of cattle left! Oh what is the use anyway?" "There isn't any use with this drouth and the depression," he said soothingly, still refusing to quartel with her. "It doesn't do any good to work. Your brothers just have better luck than I do, and they have better land too. They never have liked me or they would help us now!" She turned from him quickly that she should not remind him of how the Galbraiths had felt when she married him. He had been such a fine boy then—so superior to any of his family, yet he was a Hardin and the family pride had suffered at the union. But, as the years rolled on, she had been so proud to hear the relatives say, "Elizabeth has made a man out of Harvey!" Running from the room she met Robert. "Why Mother, what is the matter?" he questioned apalously_- "You've been crying.' "Oh, r m—I'm just sort of worried son," she said hastily. 'We are 562 so poor and the farm and everything has run down so much this year. I don't know what we will do this winter." "If I could get a job I'd gladly stop school—" "Oh, no! Not that. You have just this one year and you must finish. We will manage somehow." "Tf we had gone to the ranch this summer we'd have had the cheese," he said, putting his books away. "Why, Robert, you know I'm not strong enough to milk and do all that hard work, and the baby is so little. What do you expect your Mother to do, kill herself?" "Well, you used to go up every summer and so did all the Galbraiths. You used to get a lot of money from the cheese too. You used to keep chickens and milk cows and keep a garden. We haven't done a thing this summer,' he muttered as he turned his face away. "I've had enough work to do, just keeping house for the family," she justified her lack of accomplishment as much to herself as to Robert. "I haven't felt like milking cows and making butter. It is so much work and bother to move up to the ranch every summer. None of the family go up there any more." "I know it," he mourned. "T just love to be up in the mountains, but they all think the work is too hard. Hardly any of the Galbraiths have gone to the ranch since Grandma died. Of course the rest of them can get along without the cheese money, but we can't! We need it now!" "I do all I can," she insisted as she left him. Everything we've ever had came from either me or my family." It was true, too. When her father died she had taken her growing family to the big old house to live with her Mother, and when her Mother too had passed on, not one of her many brothers and sisters questioned RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her right to continue there, even if she took her share of the farm inheritance too. She had learned soon after her marriage that Harvey would always rather get a two dollar a day job than work in the fields, but she had managed to make him keep everything going until the depression and the subsequent relief. Her own feelings of helplessness and inability only made it harder for her to do the tasks that she had once accepted as routine. The breaking point came when she first accepted the relief money. After that they barely managed, and each month the pink check became more and more necessary. She hardly knew whether to be relieved or worried when the wife of her wealthiest cousin took over the supervision of Relief work. Her pride took another blow when she saw the scorn in Eleanor Galbraith's eyes at her regular appearance at the Government headquarters. Yet she felt that Eleanor knew how to hold her tongue, and the knowledge of a Galbraith being on record would never go beyond the books. So the winter passed and spring came with the approaching close of school and graduation for Robert. He was an honor student and the president of his class, a fine, handsome lad, ambitious and proud. Elizabeth had warned Harvey not to tell him of the dole. She felt he would never finish school if he knew of her shame. If he ever saw her near the government building he could easily account for it because of the relationship as well as the friendship which has always existed between his Mother and her cousin. He realized her struggle with poverty and she recognized his embarrassment when one day he came to her with a list of his needs for graduation—sonie new clothes, money for various expenses. Elizabeth read THE RELIEF CHECK the items with desperation in her heart. There had been no income from any source but the Relief for months, and that check would never cover this additional burden. Would Eleanor see Robert's need? Perhaps, Elizabeth hoped, she might lend it to him herself and allow him to work for her to pay it back. That same afternoon she approached Eleanor in her office, but her cousin shook her head at the suggestion of a loan. "Why hasn't Robert been working and earning money to pay for these things? Other boys do." "Robert tried to get work, but he hasn't had much time. I wanted him to finish high school credibly and I just haven't pushed him." "He would have finished more honorably if he had helped pay for his education. I resolved when I took this work I would not give anyone a personal lean. I would have been penniless months ago if I hadn't taken this stand. The only thing I can do for you is to advance your monthly check. Do you wish me to do that?" Elizabeth nodded _ miserably. Eleanor started for the door to the outer room and as she touched the knob, Robert, rushing in from the outside almost fell over her. "Oh, I beg your pardon Aunt Eleanor," he gasped. "I was in such a big hurry and the clerk told me Mother was in here.- "Mother—could I get those white pants now? Bill Murray said he would let me drive the bus to the Ridgecrest dance tonight and give me my ticket as pay. I can't go if I don't have new trousers." Eleanor closed the door as suddenly as she had opened it. Elizabeth watched her turn deliberately to the desk and open a government checkbook. "Tf you are willing for your 563 Mother to take this, Robert, she could get you the things you want." But—but that is a Relief check. You wouldn't insult my Mother with a Relief check!" "She hasn't been them." "Mother!" he whirled on_ her, "you haven't—you couldn't have been taking dole?" Elizabeth's first reaction was of anger against her cousin. "You needn't have done this," she cried. But the boy rushed to her and shook her shoulders. "How could you take such money? Where is your pride?" She turned from Eleanor to Robert. ""Pride—what good is pride when you are hungry? You wanted to go to school didn't you? Have you ever thought where the money came from? Your father hasn't earned a penny for a year." "But the farm—hasn't it always kept us?" "You know how bad the drouth was last summer. Your father hardly attempted to work the farm." "But other people raised some crops. Uncle Ben has no more land than we and he wouldn't accept Relief, would he?" Eleanor spoke quickly. “Your Uncle Ben," she said distinctly, "'is a Galbraith." "But aren't we Galbraiths too? He is Mother's own brother." "Your Mother, Robert, married a Hardin, and she has become one of them." "Oh I haven't Eleanor, I haven't," insulted by Elizabeth began to sob. "How can you say that?" "T've watched you, Elizabeth. You've let down these last few years. Even if Harvey has failed, why should you refuse to work? Where are your chickens that used to bring you an income besides supplying your own eggs? Where is the vege- 564 table garden? Where are the cheese?" “I've had seven children Eleanor. You've had only three. It takes all my time and strength to take care of them. You don't understand." "That sounds like Ed. Hardin's wife, Elizabeth. I know you have had seven children, but your Mother had nine. She was not as strong as you are, ever, but you know how much she accomplished. She ran the dairy ranch every summer, milked cows, made cheese and butter. She clothed all of you from this income. She milked cows all winter and sold the best butter in our little town. She almost kept her entire family in school through her own efforts. I know your father worked continuously, but it was all he could do to accumulate the estate he left his family. I've heard your Mother say that she never asked him for a penny for anything. Her idea of a wife was a help mate. What has yours been?" "But Harvey—" "You know Harvey needs some one behind him to push, Elizabeth. Have you done that? And even then, what he does shouldn't stop you. Youaren't old. Your children are all able to help. Why should you give them a heritage of humiliation instead of one of pride? I've wanted to say this for a long time. You don't have to accept this Relief check. Self respect is still yours if you would only work for it." Robert eased his sobbing Mother to a chair. "You are right Aunt Eleanor. And I've been as bad as Mother. Here I am, nearly grown and I asked her for money to buy RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE me clothes—white trousers. I'm ashamed," he choked, "but we won't take that check. I'll make old Bill pay me a dollar for that drive tonight instead of a dance ticket. And I can get a job with Uncle Ben for a month, planting. We can manage until it is time to go to the ranch." "The ranch?" "Yes, the ranch. You'll have to go up there and cook for us, Mother. You won't have to make cheese. I know I can get cousin Benjy to go there and look after his cows and use his truck to haul the milk to the cheese factory. The ranch isn't as far away as it was when it took all day to reach it in a wagon." "But the house?" "Well, Bess, is fifteen, isn't she? You said Aunt Martha ran the house when she was thirteen. And Dad will be here. There's nothing wrong with Dad. He can run the farm himself if he has to. And Melvin and Margie are perfectly able to look after the garden." The garden! It was a patch of dry weeds and burs now. But suddenly in her mind Elizabeth could see neat rows of green, promising food for her meager table. "A virtuous woman," the words sprang to her mind. "Her price is far above rubies. She considereth a field—with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard." "You are right son," she said as she rose. "It will take about a month to get the garden ready before we can leave it. We must hurry home now and start to mend the fence tonight so that we will not have to worry about the chickens getting our seed." The "Patsy" Child By Virginia B. Jacobsen IN the theater there is a slang term "the Patsy." It is used to designate any subordinate actor whom an excitable and temperamental manager can use as a safety valve when he allows his temper to get the best of him. When such a director is annoyed with anything, he usually finds fault with “the Patsy." What he wishes to shout or wail at more important actors, he shouts and wails at "'the Patsy." It frequently becomes the habit of the director, almost unconsciously, to ease his every fretful mood by turning upon "the Patsy" an intermittent fire of invective or sarcasm. As would be expected, it frequently happens that other members of the company gradually turn their criticism and petulance in the direction of this unfortunate individual, who through no fault of her own, has been cast for this painful role. Needless to say that in the theater "the Patsy" is almost invariably a woman or young girl. No man would endure the humiliation, even for the sake of a job. The position of the helpless "Patsy" becomes almost unendurably ignoble. She is an adult made to undergo the most shameful experience of childhood, that of the dunce badgered daily by a thin-tempered teacher in the presence of the class. No special sensitiveness is needed to break the self-control of anyone so continuously humiliated. LIKE the temperamental theatrical producer, many tired and weary fathers and mothers lose all their pent-up feelings in biting criticism of a defenseless child. Sad to say, they usually choose the child who is docile and least apt to rebound. The theatrical producer, who gives vent to his irritability and in so doing forces the weakest member of his cast to suffer, is not half as base and cowardly as the parent or teacher who makes a safety valve of a defenseless child. On the stage, if "the Patsy" attempts to stand up for herself she is usually squelched or discharged from the company, but she always has the alternative of quitting her job. But, in the home or school room, if a child tries to defend himself, he is rebuked or punished for daring to speak to his parent or teacher in a disrespectful manner. Yet, no teacher or parent has a right to greater respect from a child than he or she shows for that child. Children are quick to sense injustice. There is no surer and quicker way to lose the respect and love of a child than to force it inte the role of "the Patsy." The actor thrust into this ignoble role usually continues to endure it through financial necessity; but the helpless child, who is a "Patsy" in his home or school, is forced to endure it because he has no choice in the matter. A few years ago a most deplorable example of the results of making a child a "Patsy" came to light. When an investigator of national repute endeavored to find out what lay at the bottom of the crime career of young Hickman, it was disclosed that an unjust teacher had accused him of throwing a spit ball which he disclaimed. From then on he became the "Patsy" of the school room. In his mind grew the desire 566 for revenge. The desire for "getting even" with everyone grew until it distorted his mind beyond the point of sane thinking. Of course, this is an extreme case, but it perhaps indicates the key to the solution of the trouble with many wayward girls and boys. WE hear so much today of the dangers of an inferiority complex in a child. Yet, there is no surer way of developing a lasting inferiority complex than by making a "Patsy" of a sensitive child.. If a child is constantly badgered and scolded, and reminded of his failures, it naturally follows that he will grow unsure of himself. Timidity of this type frequently grows into real fear; fear of not doing right; fear of criticism. No child can do his best if he is secretly harboring fear in his mind. The role of the "Patsy" is apt to have one of two serious consequences: It may develop a serious inferiority complex, as has been pointed out, making the individual weak and subservient; or it may make him revengeful, secretive, and often cruel. Only the very rare personality will rise above it to success. There are a few examples which point out how unthinkingly parents force a child into this role. John comes into the room where mother is entertaining guests. His face is dirty and he is untidy. Imagine his chagrin when he is greeted in the manner usually used under such circumstances. "John, for goodness sakes, go wash your face and tidy yourself. I am positively ashamed of you!" Nine times out of ten, as Johnny leaves the room he hears his mother making excuses for herself, not for him. "I just can't seem to make him have any pride in keeping clean. Mrs. Rich, how do you get RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE your little Reginald to keep so clean?" About this time, Johnny feels almost justified in doing violence both to mother and to dear little Reginald. If one of mother's lady guests arrived with a smudge of soot on her face, and her slip showing below her dress, Mother would quietly follow her into the bed room and say in a considerate whisper, "Jane, my dear, there is a tiny speck of soot on your face, and your slip shows a tiny bit." Or, the guest might be left to display her untidiness in total ignorance of her plight. Yet, the other guests would have paid far less attention to John's appearance than to Jane's untidiness. Doubtless you have seen this hap-. Pen more than once. A guest at the dinner table inadvertently tipped over a glass of water, completely ruining the looks of the carefully set table. Mother hastened to reassure the guest that no damage was done. Anxious to relieve the embarrassment of her guest, the whole episode is soon forgotten. The next morning, one of the children tipped over a glass of water on the breakfast table. Immediately the poor child is harshly scolded for being careless, thoughtless and a dozen other things. The child cannot help comparing the episode of last night with her own accident of the moment and senses the injustice of the situation. It is strange that most adults fail to realize the harm and injustice done to children under such circumstances. Parents frequently find some little © fault and continuously harp on that failure. One little girl of seven persistently bites her nails. Her mother has tried to help her over- 'come the habit by making her proud of her hands and with the promise of dainty leather gloves when her nails are long. What the mother THE PATSY CHILD might accomplish the father makes impossible by continuously scolding the child for biting her nails. If the child asks for a penny to buy candy, her father asks to see her hands. His remark is usually, "Girls who bite their nails don't deserve candy!" The father's harshness and lack of sympathy and _ understanding serve only to make the child more nervous. She is constantly in fear that she will arouse his anger or displeasure. When she becomes highly nervous or upset over something her first reaction is to bite her nails, and the damage is done before she 567 realizes it. She consequently plans all sorts of subterfuges to avoid having her father see her hands. He is losing his child's love, and she is developing undesirable habits, just because he is making a "Patsy" of her in this one matter. If parents are going to build noble citizens of their children, they must realize what delicate instruments they are dealing with. They must cease to consider them personal property on which they can give vent to their ire or displeasure any time anything goes wrong. GOLDEN WEDDING By Sarah Ahlstrom Nelson Fifty years you've climbed together O'er the rugged hill of life, Fifty years of joys and sorrows, Fifty years as man and wife. Stalwart youth and graceful maiden Knelt beside the altar low, Pledged the vows that naught couid sever, On that day so long ago. Hopes were strong and young hearts eager To begin the tasks of life, Toil and hardships left undaunted, Brave hearts, ready for the strife. Just a simple little cottage, But love made a home complete, Baby faces came to bless you,— Baby voices, wondrous sweet. Tender memories cluster round those Happy days of by-gone years, Boys and girls around your fireside, Telling you their hopes and fears. Yours, the guiding hands that led them In the paths of truth and right, Yours, the words of hope and courage, Yours, the prayers for them at night. Life has brought both cloud and sunshine, Joys and grief have been your own, But you trod the path of duty, And your names for good are known. Sons and daughters gather round you With their children's children too, Love in every heart abounding For your lives so fine and true. Friends and kindred fondly greet. You Wish you well along the way, May God add His choicest blessings, On your golden wedding day. Too Much Freedom By Lucille Walker ANNE ANDREWS came hurrying back to her mother who was sorting letters and papers beside an open trunk. It's Miss Madsen, Mother. She wants to know if youll come to school tomorrow to act as judge in the school play try-outs." "Oh dear, I do wish no one would ask me to do another thing till I get out of this muddle! House cleaning is bad enough at best, but when you have to stop, dress up, and go somewhere everyday, it's positively maddening. But I suppose I'll have to go." And Mary Andrews wearily put aside the piles of letters and prepared to go to the telephone. "Why do you have to go, mother? Oh, I know how well you do those things, and all that, but what did the town do for some one to do all those jobs when you were a girl going to college? They ask you because they know you never fail to put over anything you attempt. If I were you I'd just say, 'Sorry! Can't do it.... Im housecleaning!' and hang up." Mary stared at her sixteen-yearold daughter. It did sound so easy when put that way. "All right," she said, "You tell her, and don't let her talk you out of it." Jane was back in a few moments. "Well that's disposed of," she said airily. 'Madsen was shocked and surprised, and whined a little, of course, but I simply said 'So sorry' and that was that. You know, mother, it makes me mad the way everybody works you—the M. I. A., the Relief Society, and the town. You're a peach when you have time to be. Do you remember how much fun we had when us kids were too young to leave, and you used to sing to us and tell us stories and play with us? But you hardly ever have time for Dad and us any more. It's lecture here, and teach a class there, put on a play or help with an entertainment—always something to worry you and wear you out. What time do you ever have to do things for yourself? Why you haven't painted a picture for years, and your writing—well the only time you do any of that is when you have to get a new reading, and can't afford to buy one. Jt makes me wild. I've just been reading this pile of stories you wrote a few years ago. You used to earn a little, writing for magazines, didn't you? I remember hearing dad tell how he nearly fell off the porch that time when he brought you a letter from some publishing house, and a slip of paper fell out of it. He picked it up and found it was a check for twenty-five dollars. Then there was the time you wanted new linoleum for that old house we lived in and you finally earned it by writing a story about it. Oh boy, if I could do that you wouldn't find me wasting my time just doing ordinary things for people." "Jane, I'm afraid I've neglected your education," her mother interrupted. "I should teach you the value of service." "I don't care. I think you could serve a lot more people by developing your talents. Look at this pile of poems. Why they're just as good as the ones we read in Literature class. I'm sure glad I stuck around to help clear out this old trunk. I'd forgotten what a clever mother I had. Our teacher says the only difference between a talented person TOO MUCH FREEDOM and a genius is that the genius doesn't let anyone or anything interfere with the development of his talent. Talent, which I probably haven't, I'll never give up till I reach the top!" "Why Jane, I had no idea you felt that way about things. Come on, we must hurry or these papers won't be sorted by dinner time." Mary Andrews' voice was quiet, with no hint of the tumult Jane's words had aroused. When the task was completed and the trunk lid was closed on the neat piles and bundles, Mary felt a pang of regret as if she had closed a door on dead hopes and ambitions. Later at dinner when Jane entertained her two sisters and brother with the discoveries of the old trunk, Mary tried to laugh, but found she wanted to cry. With an excuse of being tired, she went to bed early instead of studying as was her custom. It was good to be alone, to think over this new idea. It had never before occurred to her to wonder whether she ought to do the things people asked of her. Someone had to do them. But now she realized that life had been just one big struggle to squeeze in one more task than it was possible to do in a day. It was as if someone had turned on a light in the dark attic of her mind, showing the clutter, the needless things taking up space where important things should be. That phrase of Jane's, "You're a peach when you have time to be—" kept repeating itself in her active mind. But she felt that on that score she need not upbraid herself, because she knew that she gave of herself as freely at home as elsewhere. The children never asked for help of any kind without getting a ready response whether it were lessons or a party or a broken doll. "Of course I could be gayer if I had less on my mind, she thought. "A Believe me, if I have any: 569 woman can't do everything, and still be at her best—but there it is again, —I don't have to do everything. Let someone else do some of the things, then I can take good care of my children and still have leisure to write. Perhaps it isn't too late. My mature experience should count for something. Maybe it's my duty to the children to make a name for myself. Would they think more of me if I were a successful writer, I wonder?" "Maybe I haven't talent enough to be a really good writer. But the English professor at the University encouraged me a lot, and the editor that bought my stories said I had possibilities. Queer how every time I've had a perfectly grand idea for a poem or a story, it's always been just when I couldn't possibly take time out to write it up— when I'm preparing a reading or rehearsing a play or something like that. It surely takes leisure to do anything creative, like writing. Oh, well,—" Mary never knew when thinking ceased and dreams began, but when she wakened her thoughts had somehow crystallized into a clear-cut determination to let nothing stand in the way of her talent. She hurried through her morning housework and then as though she feared time might weaken her resolve, she dressed and went forth to burn her bridges. Bishop Barnett was not inclined to take Mary seriously at first. "Why Sister Andrews—you don't mean you want to be released from all your duties in the ward! You are trying to frighten me, or else you are hurt about something." But even as he said it, he noticed Mary's determined face. "No Bishop, I'm not in the least hurt. It's just that I've decided I owe it to my children and husband to give them the best I have of time 570 and energy—and talent. I can't do that with all these outside duties. Please don't try to persuade me not to take this step." "But Mrs. Andrews, you can't leave us in the lurch like this! The winter's work is just begun. You know yourself, there is no one to put in your place. So few women have had your training and experience. Why we've always counted on your loyal unselfish service. It's been an example and an inspiration to us all. After all, don't you think you too have been benefited by your activities? I believe it is quite impossible to serve without receiving as much as one gives. I do wish you'd change your mind." "T'm sorry I can't do as you wish," Mary answered firmly. "This is not a hasty decision. For a long time I've wanted to try being free to enjoy the children and help them discover their abilities. Then I'd like to revive a few of my own hobbies. You'll find someone to carry on. No one is ever indispensable. Goodbye." Mary hurried off feeling as guilty as if she'd just passed by some helpless creature in distress. Even the thought of being free did not bring the feeling of exhilaration she had anticipated. That afternoon she made out a daily schedule for herself in which two hours of every day were to be devoted to writing, one hour to reading and study, one hour to the children's problems. After about two weeks of finishing up her public duties, she found herself trying to adjust to her new plan of life. Day by day she shut herself up and tried to write. She sharpened pencils and chewed them extensively. She scribbled and scratched out until her desk was littered with bad attempts. "How is the story coming?" her husband inquired one evening a few weeks later. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Tt's not coming,'' Mary admitted in disgust. "I haven't done one thing that's worth anything. Of course, I'm dreadfully out of practice. It will take a little while to get my brain shined up. Writing's like anything else that requires skill. It takes constant practice. And I'm going to practice." As the months went by, Mary became aware of certain unpleasant truths. She couldn't explain it, but the help she'd hoped to give the children had turned out to be disappointing. The two younger girls had been started with piano lessons, but they hated it, and made life miserable with their complaints. Queer how, when she was so busy, her brain had been full of ideas and plots for stories, and she'd had such a desire to write. Now it all seemed so flat. Try as she would, hour after hour, her mind seemed to be bare as the paper before her. "Whatever is the matter with me?" she asked herself. "I haven't done anything worthwhile all winter. I've written reams of stuff, but it all lacks something vital. Not one of my stories has been accepted. I did better than this last year when I was so busy with other things." Mary's chagrin became apparent in her attitude toward her family. She was often moody and silent. Then one day in the late spring, when she had sat all afternoon trying to write a poem for a contest, Jane came in from school, peeked in cautiously. Seeing her mother's head on her arms, she cried out: "Why, mother, what's the matter? Are you sick? Can I help you? You've been looking terrible lately!" Mary assured her daughter she was only discouraged. "Well, mother, Senior High is having a big entertainment on Friday and all the kids wanted you to read that funny one act play you TOO MUCH FREEDOM read at our ward that night in the Fall—you know the one we liked so much. The boys said it was better than goin' to the movies to hear you read that. I told them I didn't think you'd do it, 'cause you weren't going in for that sort of thing any more. They said to coax you hard. But I don't want to interfere with your career." "Jane dear, you big silly, I haven't any career but you children. Of course I'll do it if they want me to. This poem doesn't have to go in till next week." Mary plunged into the study of the play with all her old enthusiasm —glad of an excuse to drop that tiresome old schedule. When the youngsters came in to dinner she was humming happily. Friday found her a bit nervous as she waited behind the big velvet curtain of the High School auditorium. "What if I've forgotten how to read after all these months of not doing it! Suppose I get stage fright!" But she didn't. The gales of laughter told her the play was going over as it should. Afterward the boys and girls crowded around her. "Gee, Mrs. Andrews, that was great! We've missed you a lot this winter. What you been doin'? Come again and read for us." 571 Mary and Jane walked home arm inarm. The robin's song they stopped to listen to was not happier than the song in Mary's heart. Jane said rather shyly, "I'd forgotten how nice it was to have a mother who could leave her work and come to school when we needed her. Susan Perry says it's her ambition to be like you." Her mother smiled, but stopped short suddenly. "Jane, I've just thought of the loveliest theme for that contest poem. I've been trying to write all week. It's good! I believe I can win the prize with it. Funny how it came to me all of a sudden while the boys and girls were talking to me! Thanks for getting me to go. I've learned something today, too. You know Jane you can't win success by just shutting yourself up and working for success alone. You have to have all kinds of experience, and know lots of people, and see into their hearts before you can write what they will enjoy reading. I don't know why I didn't see that. I've been going at my writing all wrong. No wonder I've failed. It's only as we give ourselves to others that we really grow and get the vision that makes us great. Come on, let's hurry. I want to write, write, write!" A GOODBYE TO A MISSIONARY By Vesta P. Crawford Do not grieve, oh mother left alone That now your only son has gone; He is young to walk so far a path And he is young to be a light for men, But you will see a broadened soul When he comes home again. Pin Money or Better By Sylvia R. Grant many women have needed money, not only for pins, but to help meet the demands of the butcher, the baker and the candlestick maker. Even when it is not absolutely necessary for a woman to make money, there is ever so much satisfaction in earning enough to buy silver candlesticks instead of just ordinary ones. In the "good old days," as they are called for some obscure reason, a woman had two means of making money at home. She could take in washing or she could take in sewing. Usually only dire necessity drove her to doing either. Nowadays there are dozens of different ways to earn money for either necessities or extras and it is considered smart to be able to do so. Some of the methods described below require special training or natural talent. In some instances the work is easy to do but difficult to secure. All, however, are actual cases of work done by women who live within a two mile radius of my door. What they have done, you can too, if you want to badly enough. IT is quite natural that women money earners should turn to the preparation of food as a likely means to their end and it is usually advisable to specialize in one particular thing. My next-door-but-one neighbor sells as many of her excellent cakes as she cares to make. Another woman makes chicken pies and rolls and her son delivers them to all parts of the city. Mrs. B. Has a high pressure cooker which she operates in her own home during the vegetable canning season. The most versatile cook of my acquaintance will prepare anything from canapes to turkeys and I have known her to send out half a dozen of the latter, complete with dressing and gravy, on Thanksgiving day. THE tea room business has flourished greatly the past few years since so many women prefer to do their entertaining where some one else can have the work and worry of it. A large home is not so essential for the venture as are attractive table appointments and good food. THE extensive use of artificial flowers for corsages and decoration in the home has opened up an interesting and sometimes very profitable field for the enterprising woman. There are places in every city. Where one can go and learn to make flowers and if they are attractive enough they are readily sold through the department stores. "THE knitted dresses, which have lately become so popular, open up still another avenue for the woman who is clever with her fingers. The stores where the yarn is sold give instruction for knitting dresses and sweaters and can sometimes give orders for them. Hemstitching offers a quicker means of making extra dollars but requires the purchase of a special machine. F a pleasant, persuasive voice and a one-party line are among a woman's assets she can use them to advantage doing advertising by telephone PIN MONEY OR BETTER . Coal, facials and magazine subscriptions are among the items which have been offered for sale to me lately by this means. Such work is usually done on a commission basis so persistence and sales ability count. ANOTHER type of work in the advertising line is addressing envelopes and this is one of the few kinds of work that does not require special ability or training. Because of this very fact it is rather difficult to obtain. Only one woman of my acquaintance has gone in for kodak finishing and she has worked up a splendid business. She equipped a dark room in the basement of her house at very little cost and develops films at odd hours in between her regular household tasks. HE basement also serves as a workshop for Mrs. S. Who makes new furniture out of old—at least, so it appears. Her clients bring her all sorts of odd pieces of furniture and by dint of much sandpapering, enameling and decorating she turns out attractive and harmonious sets. She paints new furniture as well as old and can even do a bit of upholstering if necessary. She learned how to do the work and much about color effects and decorating from booklets furnished free by the paint companies. GIFT shop has proved a good source of income for another clever woman who happened to have a room she could spare for the purpose. She makes such items as aprons, handkerchiefs and handpainted place cards herself and buys others. FOR the person whose talents lie in working with children rather than flowers and furniture, the 573 nursery school offers excellent opportunities. Suitable space and equipment are necessary to make this venture successful. The children usually range from two to five years in age and often are cared for during the entire day. In such case they are provided with lunch and beds for napping. Training courses in nursery school work can be studied by correspondence. HE tutoring of backward or subnormal children can be done to better advantage in the privacy of a home than anywhere else and sometimes proves very lucrative work. The woman who attempts this, however, should have both excellent training and ability to properly handle such cases. ARING for invalids or convalescent patients at home also pays well but is likely to require more of a woman's time than any of the other work discussed here. And iast is woman's time honored job of baby tending. If a woman feels that she hasn't the talent and can't get the equipment for some of the other work mentioned here she can always manipulate a safety pin and heat a bottle to the right temperature. I felt like I had made a golden discovery when I found a woman close to town who would care for my infant while I shopped and went to a movie. I discovered her through a sign in her window which read, "I'll tend the babe." It sounded like it would be homey and friendly beyond the sign. It was. AND speaking of signs, remember that advertising pays. Whether you hemstitch, finish films or make pies, don't neglect to tell the world about it. A Challenge By Eva K. Thomas MOST of our Pioneer mothers have passed away but their memory should be enshrined forever in the hearts of mankind. It was our Pioneer mothers who worked wonders in making the West what it is—a land of plenty, happy homes, and smiling faces. It was they who glimpsed the future and saw just beyond the horizon a better day for their children and for their children's children. Their lives knew nothing but toil, days and nights of suspense, and in their hearts they realized they were living and acting for those to come after them; that some day the frontier they knew would be like the homes they left far to the East. The "Mothers of Men" long have been praised, but our Pioneer mothers too often seem forgotten. They were not only the mothers of men, but the mothers of the great wide west land, which today vies with the eastland in comfort, education, culture, wealth, and all those things that are modern and desirable. WONDERFUL men invariably have wonderful mothers. Such a mother was Lucy Mack Smith. Perhaps no greater tribute was ever paid to a mother than was paid to the mother of Joseph Smith by the Prophet himself, when he sought her out and to her first of all confided that he had had a glorious vision and that he had been called to a great and marvelous work. She listened —believed, and had faith in her boy. He became a great Prophet, the son of a wonderful mother. Many Pioneer women left their lovely homes and friends, endured many hardships, gave their all—that we may enjoy this land—truly a glorious heritage. Even amidst toil and hardship, these women found time for many of the cultural things of life. Good books were prized, music loved and enjoyed, and the beauties of nature gave them inspiration. I BELIEVE Eliza R. Snow did a great deal to instill within our Pioneer mothers a desire for the better, the soul satisfying things of life. During her entire life she sought to better the community, to instill within all with whom she associated a desire to seek knowledge and to glorify womanhood. She was an active member of a literary society founded in 1854, the first of its kind on record in the United States. This society was to encourage education, and create a refined and intellectual atmosphere among the pioneer men and women whose fate had exiled them from such advantages. All through the study of pioneer life we find them striving for the better things. They realized the soul must be fed as well as the body. They accepted fully Christ's statement, that, ""Man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." ECONOMIC conditions are vastly different now. We have new interests in education and opportunities for development on every side. One of our present day problems concern the use of our leisure time, an unheard of thing in Pioneer days, and the proper use of this leisure A CHALLENGE time will determine its value to us. If we are to perpetuate the ideals of our Pioneer mothers we will use this leisure time to enrich our lives, that we may help enrich the lives of those about us. We are facing the task of developing a new philosophy that will change man's attitude toward himself through a new personal evaluation of life, toward his community and his country through a complete sense of individual responsibility. President Franklin D. Roosevelt in his inaugural address sounded a challenge for a new philosophy when he said, "Happiness lies not in the mere possession of money; it lies in the joy of achievement. These dark days will be worth all they cost us if they teach us that our true destiny is not to be ministered unto, but to minister to ourselves and to our fellow men." FROM the beginning, woman has personified the world's ideals. The finest conceptions of the human mind have always been expressed in feminine form. Today's crisis is not only political and financial. The very thing that has made human life sacred and beautiful is threatened. The disintegration of the family— the disregard of the marriage covenant. If these most holy institutions are threatened, is it not a hostile invasion of woman's own realm? Far more important than natural resources or national wealth is the question of how family life is led. The home is an institution and like every other institution, its value must be determined by its output. Dr. Fosdick says, "We may multiply our inventions and raise to a pinnacle the mechanized miracle of a civilization we have started here. We may make our industrial efficiency still more the marvel of the world and accumulate great wealth. We may even build great temples established for us. 575 dedicated to public worship and great schools dedicated to public instruction, but what this country is going to amount to in the end depends on what happens to its homes." Brigham Young said, "Mothers are the moving instruments in the hands of providence to guide the destinies of nations. It is through the teachings of their mothers that men are led to put their trust in God, and it is through the power of God that man fulfils his great mission on earth." At last the present age has sent its cry to woman asking her to come out from her segregation to restore spiritual supremacy of all that is human in the world of humanity. She has been aroused to remember that womanliness is not chiefly decorative, but it is like vital health which not only imparts beauty's bloom to the body but joy to the mind and perfection to life. Woman's leadership is indispensable in the present national recovery, just as it has been in all other crises in our national history. There is a challenge, in our present crisis, to every woman to fit herself that she may safeguard her home, the very foundation of this great country of ours. Then let us face these problems of ours with the same courage as our grandmothers did. Today more than ever before we need to hold true to the ideals our Pioneer mothers We must forever keep the home the sacred institution it was intended if our children are to carry on. Let us realize that we too are living lives for our children and our children's children. Weare only plowing, sowing now, making ready for the reaper. Then let us build true, level, square, and, deserve to be remembered. What kind of a heritage are we leaving for the coming generation? Mrs. Bennett's Baby By Ruth Diane Fisher homes of Mrs. Dearbourne and Mrs. Young. For years they had been neighbors, for the last six they had not been congenial. The quarrel had happened so long ago that now the cause was forgotten. But the sting remained—a sting that rankled so irritatingly in their minds that the two women, formerly the best of friends, were not on speaking terms. Their passive enmity was now taken as a matter of course by other neighbors, who had ceased to worry about it. When the nondescript family moved out of the intervening house, they vaguely wondered who would be the next to occupy it. Curious eyes peered from behind curtained windows as a young couple with a babycarriage came to the place one day. In a short time a large moving-van followed and the new family was installed. In a day or so, the windows that had looked so blank and desolate in the empty house became inviting. A child's voice rang from fhe pretty back-garden. The house was alive again! Neighbors watched the young mother as she wheeled the baby-carriage to the corner store and back. Every evening they found themselves looking to see the tiny toddler run to meet his father as he came home from work. When they called they found Mrs. Bennett very charming and they went into raptures about her dear little boy, Bobby. Mrs. Dearbourne was working in her garden one morning, when she heard the child's gurgling laugh. She looked over the fence and was immeOven one house separated the diately captivated by the little boy who held out to her a nasturium flower. With not very good grace, she took it, and then gained the child's good will by giving him a cookie in return. Mrs. Bennett came to the door. "Hello," she called, smiling in such a way that another smile was soon reflected on the other woman's face. "Bobby, say 'thank you' to the kind lady." Bobby stopped chewing a moment, then piped obediently—"Tank 'oo." "How old is he, Mrs. ——?" she paused, embarrassed. "Bennett is my name, and Bobby is just two. Won't you call me Alice, Mrs. Dearbourne? We are such close neighbors and I haven't many friends." Thus a friendship started that grew until the older woman seemed a mother to Alice and a grandmother to Bobby. Visits and confidences were exchanged nearly every day. Alice had brought into sight again something that had lain cramped in Mrs. Dearbourne's heart ever since her daughter had died long ago. The neighbors were surprised to see her bouncing Bobby up and down on her knee to the child's crowing delight. Mrs. Young saw the transformation with amazement. "What's come over grouch?" she wondered. But she no longer wondered when she met Alice and Bobby in the corner store the next day. She, too, became a captive of. Both the young pirate's charms and the girl's friendliness. Alice's was the type of character that brought happiness to any environment, and the. Neighbors the old MRS. BENNETT'S BABY eyes opened wide as they saw Mrs. Young making frequent visits to the cheerful home. They chuckled among themselves and speculated as to the outcome of the inevitable meeting between the two "warriors." They rather hoped that, under the circumstances, peace would be restored. Meanwhile, Mrs. Dearbourne and Mrs. Young vied in obtaining little Bobby's favor. He received their kindnesses with a truly kingly beneficence, bestowing on each of his admirers the gifts of his smiles and kisses with liberal and equal grace. Alice knew of the relations existing between her two friends, but tactfully forebore to speak of them. She noted the rivalry for Bobby's affection and was glad the child showed no favoritism. On her part, she strove to do likewise and was so successful that neither woman could complain that the other had more of her attention. It was in the middle of September that Bobby became sick. The preceding summer had worn down his usual buoyant health so that when the germ of a dread disease entered his body, he had no strength to combat it. Both Mrs. Dearbourne and Mrs. Young proffered the remedies that had cured their children of similar ailments. They were a little piqued when Mrs. Bennett refused to use them and adhered firmly to the orders of the competent physician in charge. However, they recognized the good sense that Alice displayed and respected her more because of her determination. The crisis came quickly and suddenly. A special nurse had been 577 provided who tactfully took the reins of management from Alice. Gratefully the girl accepted the carefully prepared foods and other articles that her friends brought her. The neighbors did what they could to alleviate the sorrow in that griefstricken home. They were too busy with Bobby's illness to notice the change that came over Mrs. Dearbourne and Mrs. Young. But Alice could have told them how the two women had met on the door-step of the home, each carrying a present to the child they loved. Mrs. Dearbourne had opened the door for Mrs. Young to let her enter first. In the silence that always hovers about the sick, Mrs. Young had whispered to the other woman as though nothing had happened between them: "He looks a bit better today, don't you think?" And Mrs. Dearbourne had answered: "Yes, poor little mite—he will come through it all right." The two went out together, still talking of their common interest. LITTLE Bobby did get well and before long was running about in the garden, eating the ripened apples that fell from Mrs. Dearbourne's tree and playing with the brilliant Chinese lanterns that Mrs. Young gave him. The two neighbors now smiled at each other as they watched him and commented on his quick recovery. Mrs. Bennett waved to them from an upstairs window as she went on about her house-work. And one Sunday the whole neighborhood smiled as they saw the two old ladies walk home from church, arm in arm. Notes from the Field Julia A. F, Lund—General Secretary WEST JORDAN RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE BOARD West Jordan Stake "THE above picture represents one of our very excellent Stake Boards—West Jordan. The record of achievements of this fine Stake is one of the bright pages in Relief Society history. There will always be a note of sadness in contemplating the members of the Board as we recall the fact that Sister Delila Freeman passed away shortly after this picture was taken. Sister Freeman is the first member in the first row reading from left to right. She was the musical director of the West Jordan Stake, the Assistant Secretary and the Magazine representative. Being so versatile in her talents her loss is a very great one to the Stake, and the General Board condoles with Sister Pixton and the other members of the Board, as well as with Sister Freeman's family. Shelley Stake ONE of the very delightful entertainments of the Shelley Stake held before closing in the Spring of 1936 was when the Shelley Stake Board entertained the Ward Relief Society Officers and Class Leaders at a luncheon. This pleasant event was held in the Stake Tabernacle. During the entertainment reports of the recent conference held in Salt Lake City were given by the visiting members of the Stake Board. The scheme of gold and blue was carried out in the table decorations and in the favors. Very clever little programs in blue with yellow NOTES FROM THE FIELD flowers were souvenirs of the happy occasion. The guests were seated at three tables each of which was centered with a silver and blue basket of daffodils and blue candles in silver holders. The songs sang upon 579 the occasion by the Relief Society choir were composed for the most part by Relief Society women themselves. It was a never-to-be-forgotten event attended by about eighty enthusiastic workers. DANISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD Danish Mission - HE above picture represents the sisters of the Danish Mission Relief Society Board. These enterprising women are responsible for the conduct of the work throughout the Mission, and have been most enthusiastic in following as closely as possible the activities of the organization. They have prepared themselves some of the lessons which have been found desirable in their Mission, and are very happy in all branches of the work. The President writes: "There is no greater joy than that which comes from service—service to our fellowmen and to our Father in Heaven. We are all His children, and through service we can show our love for Him and for one another."" The activities of the Relief Society have done much to do away with the prejudice against the Church and the sisters are received very kindly by most of the people whom they contact. Norwegian Mission "THE sisters of the far away Mission, Norway, certainly appreciate the organization, and are trying to show their appreciation for the Relief Society by participating in all of its activity. Most of the Societies of Norway celebrated the seventeenth of March by presenting the playlet "The Gate Beautiful," 580 which was translated into Norwegian, and the pictures show the result of their efforts. The Relief Society Mission President has been very active in visiting the organization RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE even in remote points, and the sisters are extremely anxious to do all they can to cooperate with the great program which is world-wide in its scope. RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION, TRONDHEIM Sacramento Stake ON Sunday, November 4, 1934, the Sacramento Stake was organized, and the Relief Society came into existence. Sister Olive O. Lindblad was sustained as President, and a fully organized board assumed their duties in humility and with a prayer for strength and wisdom commensurate with the responsibility entailed. Sister Lindblad held the Presidency until it was necessary for her to move from the Stake, when Sister Edith D. Sellers was appoint- NOTES FROM THE FIELD ed to take her place. This new Stake has always enjoyed very capable leadership. The first Relief Society convention held was Anniversary Day, and was most successful, at which time each Ward participated in the program. The first Relief Society exhibit was held in May, and each Ward participated in this activity. People were amazed at the number of articles displayed. During the exhibition a delightful musical program was rendered. This was followed by a reception and luncheon, where more than two hundred and fifty guests participated. During the year each Ward held a Relief Society Conference, the program of which has been to effectively por- 581 tray the work and varied program of the Relief Society in its human service. The monthly Union Meetings have been well attended, and serve as an excellent medium in bringing the Stake and Ward members into close contact thereby building up a strong Stake Relief Society spirit. During the Summer two Stake picnics have been held, and special attention has been given to those who live at some distance from the Ward centers. On September 29, 1935, the Stake Relief Society Conference was held. If a good beginning ensures a successful accomplishment certainly this Stake has much to hope for the future. OrG)s ANDREW By Gertrude Perry Stanton No honored laurel wreath adorned his brow, No history his famous deeds record; One sentence tells the tale of Andrew, who, Believing, brought his brother to the Lord. Not his the gift to speak with fervid power, While multitudes hung breathless on his word; Not his to organize a brilliant plan,— He only brought his brother to the Lord. Perhaps among our neighbors we could find, (Like Andrew, without fame or high reward), A Peter, who could head his Master's work, If we but brought our brothers to the Lord. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN - KATE M. BARKER - JULIA A. F. LUND - Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B. Knight Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Inez K. Allen Ida P. Beal Lotta Paul Raxter Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford - - President - - First Counselor - - Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Marcia K. Howells RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -  - Manager. - - Assistant Manager - -Mary Connelly Kimball - Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman VOL. XXIII SEPTEMBER, 1936 No. 9 Editorials Jeanette FRIENDS of Jeanette A. Hyde were surprised to read of her passing on August 8th in Honolulu, whither she had gone some months before, thinking the lower altitude would be beneficial to her. Her death was unexpected, as she seemed to be improving and well enough to attend a session of the Stake Conference, but died during the meeting. Mrs. Hyde was one of the most prominent women in Utah, having for many years been very active in - Church and political circles. For 19 years she was an officer in the Y. W. M. I. A. Of the 22nd Ward, Salt Lake City. On July 3, 1913, she was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, and she, with others, founded the Relief Society Magazine and for years acted as its Business Manager. She also was numbered with those who established the Burial Clothes Department and the Relief Society Home for women and girls. A. Hyde She was always interested in human welfare and especially in the well being of women and girls. She had foresight in seeing what would be interesting to the young and was instrumental in establishing homes and camps for their recreation. During the world war she was a member of the City and State Council of Defense, of the Liberty Loan Committee, and served as chairman of the Conservation Committee under Herbert Hoover. During the influenza epidemic she supervised the making of masks and personally assisted in the care of the influenza patients at the Judge Mercy Hospital. She had charge of the linen department there and worked untiringly until she herself became afflicted with the dread disease. She with others organized the Civic Center. Mrs. Hyde was always active in politics. She was one of the first EDITORIALS women to act as a member of the Republican National Executive Committee, having personal charge of the executive work involving the interests of Republican women. She served as a member of the Red Cross Chapter in Salt Lake County and as a member of the Social Welfare Committee of the County. At one time she was on the Board of Regents of the University of Utah. In April 1925 she was appointed Collector of Customs in Honolulu, a position no woman had ever held before. It is said that she gave the Port one of the most efficient administrations it had ever had. Because of her duties in this capacity, she re- 583 signed from the General Board of Relief Society. She is survived by her husband and five children, Romania Hyde Woolley, Golda Hyde Gordon, Honolulu; Jay Hyde, Phoenix, Arizona; Orson A. Hyde, Salt Lake City, and Dr. Frank W. Hyde, Chicago, Illinois. Energetic, resourceful, deeply interested in people and events, Mrs. Hyde was always active until illness held her back. She had great ability in many fields. She was a most delightful conversationalist and her wit and stories have given great pleasure to those associated with her socially. We shall miss her sunny presence and deeply sympathize with her family in their great loss. Lizzie Thomas Edward N the death of Lizzie Thomas Edward July 23, 1936, there passed away one of our loveliest singers. She gave a lifetime of service to the musical uplift of the people among whom she lived. From the Atlantic to the Pacific and from Canada to Mexico people were charmed by her marvelous voice. Not only as a soloist of the Tabernacle Choir did she serve but as director of the choir of her own ward, in concerts and opera work, and for years she furnished the music for our Relief Society Conferences. She leaves us ripe in experience and rich because of the generous use she made of her talent. Monument to Charles R. Savage A° a part of the festivities connected with the celebration of July 24th in Salt Lake City there was dedicated on July 23d a monument honoring Charles R. Savage, founder of the Old Folks' movement. The monument is placed on the southeast corner of Temple Block and was financed by popular subscription, by generous contiibution from the Covered Wagon Days, Inc., the Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association, and the Cambrian Society. Charles R. Savage will ever be remembered by those who knew him as a genial, kindly man who not only was deeply interested in the well being of the old but also of youth. He was a patron of art and a great lover of flowers. His name will go down on history's pages, however, because he founded the movement to give the Old Folks some happy gatherings during each year. This is a unique service. Thousands annually gather to enjoy banquets, picture shows, etc., who look upon these occasions as red-letter days in their declining years. The monument will bring this movement to the attention of thousands of tourists. We look for other communities and churches to inaugurate Old Folks' days. 584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ""Charles Coulson Rich'', "PIONEER BUILDER OF THE WEST" CHARLES COULSON RICH by John Henry Evans is a valuable addition to Western literature. It depicts a strong, outstanding, remarkable character who in his time played many parts. Mr. Evans says, "Charles Coulson Rich could preach a sermon, drill an army, shoe an ox, govern a college, build factories in the wilderness and run them on a dividend-paying basis, lay plans and make laws for a great commonwealth. As missionary he carried his religion through much of Europe and brought hundreds of converts overseas to the American Southwest." Not only in public life did Mr. Rich play his part well, but in his domestic relations he was outstandingly successful, for his biographer says he never had a quarrel, though he was the husband of six wives and the father of fifty children. The book has great historic value, for in reading its pages one sees "the Mormon movement in intimate detail; the persecution and violence in Missouri and Illinois; the martyrdom of the Prophet, Joseph Smith, and his brother Hyrum; the trek westward by covered wagon; the development of Utah and the Mormon settlements in California." This is a source. Book of valuable material because of the author's painstaking research into heretofore unpublished material in personal documents and in the archives of Utah and in Church manuscripts. It is well written and intensely interesting. It is a good thing lest we forget what it cost to subdue the wilderness and reclaim the desert, to read the life of Charles Coulson Rich again and again and other books dealing with pioneer life. If it is true that one cannot come in contact with a great character in any way without being raised thereby, all readers of this volume will receive not only information but uplift from perusal of its pages. Price $3.50. Published by The Macmillan Company, New York. "Cash Relief" CASH RELIEF" by Joanna C. Colcord, Director Charity Organization Department Russell Sage Foundation, gives some valuable facts regarding cash relief. She tells that public relief in the form of cash grants is all but universal in Europe. This is followed by a history of the first cash grants in the United States. The objections to this form of relief are clearly stated and the arguments refuted by the experience of those who have tried the plan. The desirable results are enumerated. The book is divided into four parts followed by appendices. Part one gives the Genesis of Cash Relief; Part two, Detailed Exnerience With Cash Relief in Nine Cities; Part three, Summary of E-xperience With Cash Relief Experience in Nine Cities; Part 4, Coiparative Costs of Relief in Cash and in Kind. A book of this kind is very valuable to all who are grappling with the problem of relief, for it gives facts, not theories. Price $1.50 EDITORIALS 585 We Wonder Why WE wonder why— When hot days come, fashions shift from the collarless dress to the high collar of several thicknesses, Men choose very dark shirts for summer wear, For July 24th celebrations men wear brilliant green, yellow, purple shirts such as no Pioneer ever visioned, with bright neckerchiefs as an adornment, Compulsion should be used to force men to become uncomfortable by growing beards for July 24th celebrations, Some have so many kinds of food on the table at once that people are tempted to overeat, So many women tilt around on high-heeled shoes that are bad for health, for comfort and for grace, We act worst around home, We hurt those we love the best. Girls slavishly imitate others in make-up and dress rather than studying what would bring out their individual attractiveness, Girls paint their fingers nails red and make them look so startling. Cecil B. DeMille has said that when he sees a girl with her finger nails painted bright red, it reminds him of some one who has just killed a chicken, So many people when they get behind the steering wheel of an automobile lose their sense of courtesy and their law-abiding proclivities. LARGESS By Della Adams Leitner Proudly I look at them, the shining jars Of golden peaches, apricots and plums, The luscious berries and the purple prunes, The rich abundance that with summer comes. My shelves are filled with vegetables and fruits, My family's harvest for the winter's need, With some to share with those in cruel want, My blessing goes to all that this may feed. I think not of the hours or of the task It took to fill the jars. I only see Providing Love made manifest and I Acknowledge God's great bounty thankfully. Lesson Department (For First Week in November) THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson 2 CHRISTIANITY BEFORE THE CHRIST Helpful References In the Book of Mormon: I Nephi 10:1, 4-14, 22; 13:19-29; 1715; II Nephi 25:26; Jacob 4:4-6: Mosiah 5:6-8; Alma 31:31-38; Ether 3:4-20. In the Doctrine and Covenants: 27: 11; 29:34-43; 107:1-4, 39-57: 84: 6-28. In the Pearl of Great Price: Moses 5:5-15, 58, 59; 6:57-68; 7; 8:12- 30; Abraham 1:1-3, 31; 2:15. Smith: The Way to Perfection, Chapter 9. 1. In the previous lesson of this series we learned that Christ's ministry was foretold by the prophets One might surmise, without any knowledge of scripture, the need of knowing the reasons for His advent. It would be useless to predict the coming of a Savior if the plan of salvation was withheld from men. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints teaches the somewhat unique, but nevertheless true, doctrine that Christianity—the Gospel, if you please—was taught from the earliest times, thousands of years before the Redeemer came in the flesh. Hence, the title of this lesson: Christianity Before The Christ. Many persons not of our faith may exclaim, "If the Gospel, as understood by you, was in the world before the advent of Christ, why does not the Bible indicate it? We hasten to say that it does in part. Unfortunately, for reasons to be considered, the Bible does not portray as clearly as we should desire, the point in question. Ina prophecy of Nephi the following remark is made: "Because that ye have a Bible ye need not suppose that it contains all my words; neither need ye suppose that I have not caused more to be written." (II Nephi 29:10.) That statement is one key to the difficulty. Other revelations of the Lord, as: mplied above, are necessary to make up for the lack of clearness in the Bible record. An angel of the Lord on one occasion gave Nephi some information respecting a book to come in the latter days into the hands of the Gentiles. The book spoken of is our Bible. Nephi was informed that following the ministry of the Savior many parts of the Bible, originally plain and easy to understand, were taken therefrom. "For beheld, they have taken away from the gospel of the Lamb many parts which are plain and most precious; and also many covenants of the Lord have they taken away." (I Nephi 13: 26.) The implication is, of course, both the Old and New Testaments were similarly treated. The result, to use the words of the angel, was to "pervert the right ways of the Lord.. Blind the eyes and harden the hearts of the children of men." (Read carefully I Nephi 13:19-2.) 2. Having indicated the reasons why our Bible has seemingly misled the world in a vital matter, we proceed to point out some contributions LESSON DEPARTMENT of modern revelation to the theme under consideration. When Adam, the Patriarch of the human race, was informed by an angel of God that the principle of sacrifice was "a similitude of' the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father," he received a fundamental Gospel principle. The divine messenger then proceeded to unfold other fundamental principles. "Wherefore, thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore." (Moses 5:8.) The sacred record adds the remarkable information that 'the Holy Ghost fell upon Adam, which beareth record of the Father and Son, saying: I am the Only Begotten of the Father from the beginning, henceforth and forever, that as thou hast fallen thou mayest be redeemed. And all mankind, even as many as will.' "' (Moses 5:9.) The doctrine of the resurrection was known to Adam, for he declared 'again in the flesh I shall see God." (Moses 5:10.) Adam and Eve, in a real sense, were the first missionaries. Many of their children departed from the ways of God and had to be called to repentance. (Moses 5:12-15; 6:57.) Father Adam, and doubtless manv of his children, received the ordinance of baptism for remission of their sins. (Moses 6:64-68.) Another early missionary was Enoch. Undoubtedly there was a church organization of some kind in his day. Because of the righteousness of the people over whom Enoch presided, they were translated. (Moses 7.) Noah, too, preached the Gospel to the inhabitants of the earth prior to the Deluge. (Moses 8:17-30.) 3. The Book of Abraham makes clear the fact that Abraham, the Father of the Faithful, was acquainted with the powers of the Priest- 587 hood and that he had a more or less successful Gospel ministry. "I became a rightful heir, a High Priest, holding the right belonging to the fathers." (Abraham 1:2.) When Abraham was commanded of the Lord to leave Haran and go to the land of Canaan, he did so, taking - with him some of his relatives, his property, "and the souls that we had won in Haran." (Abraham 2:15.) The quotation makes it certain that the souls of men were dear to his heart. What might be termed the "Church" records, fell into his hands. 'But the records of the fathers, even the patriarchs, concerning the right of Priesthood, the Lord, my God, preserved in mine own hands; therefore a knowledge of the beginning of the creation, and also of the planets, and of the stars, as they were made known unto the fathers, have I kept even unto this day." (Abraham 1:31.) 4. The Book of Mormon points out a Christian ministry before Christ came in the flesh. Jacob, writing for the benefit of those who should come after Him, declared: "For, for this intent have we written these things that they may know that we knew of Christ, and we had a hope of His glory many hundred years before His coming; and not only we ourselves had a hope of His glory, but also all the holy prophets which were before us. Behold, they believed in Christ and worshiped the Father in His name, and also we worship the Father in His name. And for this intent we keep the laws of Moses, it pointing our souls to him; and for this cause it is sanctified unto us for righteousness, even as it was accounted unto Abraham in the wilderness to be obedient unto the commands of God in offering up his son Isaac, which is a similitude of God and His Only Begotten Son. Where- 588 fore, we search the prophets, and we have many revelations, and the spirit of prophecy; and having all these witnesses we obtain a hope, and our faith becometh unshaken, insomuch that we truly can command in the name of Jesus and the very trees obey us, or the mountains, or the waves of the sea." (Jacob 4:4-6.) This scriptrue is so explicit as to make it scarcely necessary to add other testimony. We present, however, one more passage purely for its interest. Moroni, a Nephite general who lived about 73 B. C., prayed for "liberty to rest upon his brethren, so long as there should a band of Christians remain to possess the land—for thus were all the true believers of Christ, who belonged to the Church of God, called by those who did not belong to the Church. And those who did belong to the Church were faithful; yea, all those who were true believers in Christ took upon them, gladly, the name of Christ, or Christians as they were called, because of their belief in Christ who should come." (Alma 46:13-15.) We may sum up our lesson in the words of the Pearl of Great Price: "And thus the Gospel began to be preached, from the beginning." (Moses 5:58.) Questions 1. In what ways has the text of the Bible become corrupted in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE course of its transmission through the centuries? What has been the effect of this corruption? 2. Can you point to some texts in either the Old or the New Testament that imply a knowledge of the Gospel before the coming of Christ? 3. In what ways would the Church organization before the days of Christ differ from that set up during His earthly ministry? Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.) 1. Read the statement made in Alma 46:13-15 (B. C. 73) relative to the Christians, and determine if it is in any way inconsistent with that made in Acts 11:26. 2. Name some great teachers among so-called heathen peoples, prior to the earthly ministry of the Savior. Discuss them in the light of the statement made in Alma 29:8. 3. Trace as far as possible the descent of the priesthood from the time of Adam until the present. 4, Did Moses teach the Israelites the Gospel, or the law of carnal commandments, immediately after leading them from Egypt? (Consult Acts 7:37-39; Hebrews 3:4-11 and Doctrine and Covenants 84:6-27.) 5. From whom did Abraham obtain his priesthood? What country do you suppose he was in when it was conferred upon him? TEACHERS' TOPIC TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR NOVEMBER, 1936 THE SOWER R EAD the parable. Matthew 13:1-9. In this as in other parables Jesus drew His figures from nature and the everyday life of the people. There were in Palestine as elsewhere different kinds of land under cultivation. In some sections there were well cultivated and marked out fields of fertile soil, but the LESSON DEPARTMENT narrow ridges and slopes of the hills were also cultivated. Some parts of the fields were strewn with stones and boulders while others had only a thin layer of earth covering the rocks. Thorns and _ thistles abounded everywhere and found sufficient soil in the clefts and crevices of the rocks in which to grow. A small, hard trodden path ran straight across the field which was designated in the parable of the Sower as the wayside. Thorny places were where the ground had not been cleaned. They contained roots and stones. Stony places were where the soil was shallow over stones and rocks. At the conclusion of the parable the Lord added, ''He that hath ears to hear let him hear." Christ gives the following explanation of the parable. (Matthew 13:18-23): "Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower. - 589 "When anyone heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it then cometh the wicked one, and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. This is he which received seed by the wayside. "But he that received the seed into stony places, the same is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy receiveth it: "Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for awhile; for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word by and by he is offended. "He also that received seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word; and the care of this world and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful. "But he that receiveth seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it: which also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundred-fold, some sixty, some thirty." LITERATURE (For Second Week in November) Lesson II ALICE FREEMAN PALMER ES, Alice Freeman was president of Wellesley, and there was work and responsibility ahead. But with a girlish heart she answered her parents' letter, who had been informed of her appointment through a letter from one of her friends. "T have been writing letters every moment today. None of them personal, you may be sure. Tomorrow I am invited to lunch with one of the Trustees, and all are as kind and cordial as possible. The girls and teachers too are so loyal and thoughtful that I am full of hope, even though I can never see my way a single day ahead. There is a great deal in it that is pleasant, but I have been obliged to get a good many things, warm things for winter and a few nice things suitable for the acting president. You see, I have to wear good clothes all the time now to compensate for my undignified appearance. How much I would give for a few gray hairs! I am glad you are glad at the promotion, and that Saginaw people are pleased. 590 Warm letters come from many friends." Now her work began in earnest. One of the first things she did was to organize courses on a college basis so that a Bachelor of Arts and a Bachelor of Science degree could be given. She built up the faculty, and as there were no schools that could be regarded as feeders for Wellesley she determined to do something about it. There had been a preparatory department attached to Wellesley; this she set free to do its own work. In various ways she was instrumental in bringing into being schools that would feed her institution, and in getting into sympathetic relations with others that could help. Yet another difficulty stared her in the face. Wellesley was away from any town. There was no way of housing the young women except through dormitories, so that unless new dormitories could be built the college enrollment could not increase. Each year many students were being turned away. Finally she opened a campaign and raised funds with which to build a new dormitory. A story is at hand showing the president in action while one of the dormitories was being built: "The contractors were late, the workmen dawdled. Finally she went to the director of the work and quietly said, 'We move into this building on such a day.' He answered, 'Impossible! It will not be finished.' 'We shall be sorry to inconvenience your workmen but we move on that day.' The director stormed, made remarks about ignorant women, unsexing themselves by trying to boss men, 'but wonders were accomplished,' said she, 'and on the day in question, we moved in with comparatively little left to be done.' " Her tact, humor, and abundant sympathy was constanly evidenced RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as she dealt with students, faculty, and the public. She was a disciplinarian, but her power came much from the love and confidence she inspired through personal contacts and the addresses delivered in assembly. The following story is revealing: "A gentleman tells me," says Mr. Palmer, "that when he attended a small New England college he found some of the regulations galling. On remonstrating he was told, "You had better go to Wellesley, where, whenever the little president raises her hand, the whole college hurries to obey.' Yet her authority did not rest on their will, on knowledge, rather, on sanity, poise, and a large way of handling business. "Incidental greatness characterized Her unconsidered ways." One thing is clear that in all her work she was a great inspirer. She filled her students with confidence in themselves and with the joy of life and all its promises. One woman had this to say of her: "Mrs. Palmer had a strange effect on me. When I saw her, I felt as if I could do things that I never dreamed of before. Even now, whenever I think of her, I have a sense of dignity in my life. I don't know what it is. It seems as if her appreciation of the worth of things puts a spirit into me that carries me along until the next time I think of her. I should not care to go on in a world in which she had not been." This personal influence was undoubtedly the secret of much of her power. And yet, this power came in part from her belief in her mission. She was saturated with the belief that the time had come when women should add to their domestic skill and grace something of the intellectual life. She said they were demanding LESSON DEPARTMENT it. With the might of her precious soul she sought to have them acquire it in a manner which would enlarge their personality and help them in their family life. "She took her duties lightly and once exclaimed to the president of another college, 'Isn't it fun to be a president!' When I applied to her faithful secretary for information about the perplexities of these opening years, I received the following reply: 'The thought of Miss Freeman's feeling any perplexity in her position at Wellesley seems strange to me, who knew so well the inner life of the office. Underneath her cheerfulness, her keen sense of humor, her thoughtfulness for others, her joy in all that makes life lovely, there ran a current of confidence and unhesitating trust in her Heavenly Father. She consequently never appeared perplexed. The presidency of Wellesley was not a difficult position for her. In each emergency she saw by intuition the right course. To pursue.' "But that she," adds Mr. Palmer, "almost the first of woman presidents and with little in the past for a guide, should have possessed this instinctive discernment and youthful and ardent though she was, should have known that it is the plodding path which leads to glory, must, I suppose, indicate in her something like genius." Her work now was practically done. She had wrought a good many changes in the college. The whole course was made stiffer. There was a general rise in standards. "My informants tell me," says Mr. Palmer, "that the most marked change produced by Miss Freeman's coming was this new atmosphere of exactitude, work, and insistence on what a college should mean, succeeding a sort of boarding-house looseness. The girls no longer played at 591 going to college,—they really went." Everywhere in educational circles her work was recognized and was a subject of commendation and often wonder. She had done for Wellesley what James Burrell Angell had done for Michigan, John R. Park for the University of Utah, and Karl G. Maeser, for Brigham Young University. Further, she had helped lay the foundation for a world that would produce such notable speakers as appeared over a world-wide net work on September 6, 1935, in recognition of the anniversary of Jane Addams' birthday, pleading for peace and the abolition of war. The following women made addresses on that occasion: Dr. Mary E. Woolley, Pearl Buck, Caroline O'Day, Dr. Alice Hamilton, Mrs. Hannah C. Hull, Judge Florence E. Allen, A. Maude Royden, Gertrude Baer, Lady Aberdeen, Madeleine Rolland, Mrs. Israel Zangwill, and Mrs. Littlejohn. Alice Hamilton would not be serving on the Harvard faculty nor would Mary Woolley ever have been a college president, had the opportunity of college training been denied them. One of her successors, President Caroline Hazard, has told us something of the young president in the following lines: "We loved her for the loving thoughts which sped Straight from her heart, until they found their goal In some perplexed or troubled human soul, And broke anew the ever living bread. We loved the mind courageous, which no dread Of failure ever daunted, whose control Of gentleness all opposition stole; We pred herself and all the joy she shed. 592 O Leader of the Leaders! Like a light Thy life was set, to counsel, to befriend." She had been president of Wellesley for six years. Now another matter claimed her attention. In 1886 Professor George Herbert Palmer of Harvard University, had given a course of lectures at Wellesley. That summer Mrs. Governor Claflin and she visited Boxford, Mr. Palmer's country home. Says he, "from that time our intimacy ripened rapidly until on her thirty-second birthday, February 21, 1887, I brought her an engagement ring. With characteristtic audacity, she insisted on wearing it at once. When at our next meeting I asked if her girls had not remarked on it, she said they had on that very evening; but that when she had told them it was her birthday and this was one of her birthday gifts, she started a discussion over their respective ages and the subject of the ring disappeared. It did not disappear from her finger, however, necessary though concealment was." Immediately after commencement Miss Freeman told the Trustees of her engagement. "It was my hope," said Mr. Palmer, "that she would be set free from Wellesley at once and the wedding take place during the summer, but the Trustees could not be brought to an immediate decision. To lose Miss Freeman was in their view to imperil Wellesley, and uaturally enough they wished for time to look about and urged her to remain one year more during which a successor might be sought.... Unhappily, at a time when this call of the college was especially strong, I gave way and agreed to let her remain in service until Christmas."' Another plan of the Trustees in their dilemma was to have Mr. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Palmer go to Wellesley. This he did not think feasible, although he jokingly remarked that her salary was $4,000 while his was only $3,500. There was much stir in and about Wellesley. Many maintained that no man had a right to take from public life a woman so fitted for a position as Miss Freeman had proved herself. A letter written by Mr. Palmer to Mrs. Claflin, a mutual friend, is illuminating on this matter: "Dear Mrs. Claflin: "I hear from Miss Freeman that she has told you of our engagement. I am very glad she has. You would naturally be one of the first whom we would wish to tell. You have known us as few others among the Trustees have, and in the excited discussions that are to come there will be plenty of need of clear knowledge, in order to make people turn away from their hot momentary feeling and consider the real facts in the case. This great service of keeping people just and clear-headed you can now do for Miss Freeman. She will need such protection. She is greatly strained already. You know how sensitive she is to the disapproval of those she loves, even when she sees that their disapproval springs from nothing better than half knowledge. To hint that she is abandoning duty for selfish gains is to cut her with a knife. We all perceive that she is incapable of doing such a thing, but her pain is just as great as if she were. "On the other hand, that people will abuse me I anticipate, and I think it very proper that they should. Being of tolerably tough material, I can stand abuse very comfortably. In the place of a Wellesley Trustee, I dare say I should denounce this thievish Harvard professor pretty LESSON DEPARTMENT roundly. And yet I hold that at the present moment I am one of the great benefactors of Wellesley, one of the few who clearly see the direction in which its prosperity lies. "Great causes and great institutions are generally best founded or guided through crises, by a single leader. They are embodiments of him. His is their inspiration and his their wisdom. The service of them is personal allegiance. To him everything is referred, and his will takes for the time the place of all more minute law and organization. Wellesley has fortunately had this experience, first under Mr. Durant and then under the general of his choice. But the danger which besets such an institution is obvious: it does not acquire a life of its own. Everything is staked on the single leader; and even when that leader is perfect, there is something lacking in the spontaneous vigor of the institution." Miss Freeman continued her work until the Christmas vacation. She was married December 23, 1887, in the home of her beloved friends, Governor and Mrs. Claflin, in Boston. Mr. Palmer observes that they were married at half past eleven in 593 the morning. Up to that hour of the previous night she worked in her office at the college. Questions 1. To what characteristics do you attribute Alice Freeman's success with young women? 2. To what qualities do you attribute her success as a college president? She might have been successful as a Dean of Women without being a good college president, but she was both. To what qualities do you attribute this success? 3. State specifically the ways in which she improved Wellesley. 4, What evidence is there that she was deeply religious, and that she depended on her Heavenly Father for help? 5. Discuss the problem of her marriage: In view of the fact that she was performing such a notable service as president of Wellesley, should she have married or should she have remained with the college? What do you think about it? Note: For additional material consult chapters seven and eight of the "Life of Alice Freeman Palmer" by George Herbert Palmer. SOCIAL SERVICE (For Fourth Week in November) Lesson II MEETING POVERTY Text: Civic Sociology by Edward A. Ross; Chapters XI and XIII. MONG the problems of social A welfare, poverty is of major importance. Both an understanding of the various causes which lead to its existence and some scientific knowledge of its relief are necessary for an intelligent approach to the subject. Effective alleviation necessitates an understanding of its causes and cures. One of society's greatest outlays of energy is the attempt to relieve poverty. But relief without an effort to help those who live in it to gain 594 a position among the socially efficient is futile. Always, there have been many people who have failed to earn the barest necessities of life. As society has advanced in its economic organization the problem of living has become increasingly complex, and the economically unfit have multiplied accordingly. The economic structure now requires greater capacity to meet its problems than ever before, but society has not provided the social machinery to give its relatively less capable members a chance to take their places in its set-up. With the exclusion of ever-increasing numbers from the ranks of economic production an abnormally large percentage of people have been thrown upon society for their care and upkeep. But this condition is only one of the causes of poverty. There are many: each leads to a different type; each has a definite place in the social relationships involved as the result of it, and all types must be considered for an understanding of the subject. This lesson is developed with a consideration of the following points: 1. The acquiring of a more sympathetic understanding of the underlying causes of povetry. 2. Cultivation of the approval of a standard of living which will lessen the prevalence of poverty. 3. An approach to the methods of alleviating the distress of poverty. An ideal society would be characterized by the absence of poverty and other forms of social maladjustment. Everyone would be able to make the most of his particular abilities and position. In life. If social institutions were ideally organized and governed, group welfare would consider all individuals; and if all people possessed the ability to meet the demands of the changing social order such a state could exist. However RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE present affairs are far from any such Utopianism. Misery, crime, lack of adjustment, and poverty are overwhelmingly present. Special study is required to appreciate each of these conditions, and poverty presents an intricate problem. Its causes may be thought of under two general headings: First, that which originates among individuals; and second, that for which society is the causative factor. The problem of meeting both devolves upon organized society. To the first group belong those people who live in a state of poverty for biological reasons. They are the mentally unfit who, nevertheless, are expected to fulfil their obligations in society; those who are chronically unfit physically, and those who are naturally capable but who have been rendered unfit by severe illness themselves or who have had to meet more sickness in their families than they could possibly afford. Some authorities claim that sickness is the greatest single cause of poverty and that it accounts for 75% of the cases brought to the attention of agencies. Besides these, there is the great class of the unskilled and of those who are untrained for any vocation or profession. There are those who have failed to take their places because they are too lazy or too unstable to meet the requirements of their work. And there are those who seem to have a natural propensity for bringing unnecessary disaster upon themselves, such as fires and other losses from sheer carelessness. Then, there are those who are the object of endless grief because they do not know how to handle money. Improper budgeting of the family income is extremely common. In spite of good intentions many people fail to proportion intelligently their expenditures for food, clothing, LESSON DEPARTMENT shelter, education, pleasure, and additional items. Thus, incomes which should be sufficient are wasted or are used to disadvantage with the deplorable result that children are often. Deprived of proper preparation for life. Much needless suffering ensues, and no matter how much such people are helped, poor spending thwarts all efforts towards desirable adjustment unless a thorough reeducation takes place. Unwholesome appetites lead many to destitution. Liquor, tobacco, excessive and unwise use of leisure are all millstones of poverty. Improper diet which breaks down health is another cause. And when vanity leads to unwise spending, illicit dealings may follow. To the second group belong the vast numbers of poverty-stricken people who find themselves victimized by the economic and _ social structure; those who are left penniless by the misdemeanors and crimes of those who mishandle trust funds and companies, and those who are thrown out of work by the constant changes in industry and the mechanization of labor. Some people find it impossible to adjust to the changes in society, and many are excluded from work by the natural rise and fall of the economic curve. In addition to all these there are countless numbers who have been reduced to want through natural causes or unavoidable misfortunes, such as floods, drouth, earthquakes, fires, and other uncontrollable disasters. Among the first group are those whom we are inclined to call '"God's poor," or the worthy poor—those who have been deprived of their economic independence through no fault of their own— and also the noxious poor. The latter have been made the target for many a sarcastic 595 jibe and story; and truly, they present one of society's most difficult problems. We cannot feel the sympathy for such people that we do for the mentally or the physically unfit. They are the ones who take advantage of relief at the expense of their self-respect, and those who would take bread from the mouths of others rather than go to work, themselves. However, not all the people who find themselves in need of relief can be classified according to these definite lines and judgments. The matter is far too complicated for any such hard and fast division. During times of special economic stress such as the world has experienced in recent years, many have been plunged into financial distress and forced to accept temporary relief. Adjustments to the situation should be accomplished in a short time. Poor preparation for life is an enormous cause for poverty; its cure can come about only through better education in the home and the school. Although one of the greatest aims of the educational system is to prepare children for life, thousands are still leaving high schools and colleges unequipped to achieve any degree of independence. Lack of direction is one of the greatest reasons for this condition. The schools are attempting to overcome it with their plans for individual guidance, but direction in the home is also necessary. Preparation to take advantage of the opportunities offered in the schools begins long before children reach school age. Where poor home conditions lead to juvenile delinquency efficient guidance in the school is almost impossible. Although most secondary schools are handicapped by facilities which are too limited to - insure enough preparation for students to take positions in their chosen 596 vocation immediately after graduation, the opportunities offered do provide a good start towards nearly any kind of training desired. A study of the relief rolls of the past four years reveals the lack of thorough training ina chosen line. Inadequate and misdirected education will never cease to be a stumbling block in the way of becoming a good producer and provider. The lesson on health pointed out the direct relationship between an unsound body and poverty. While much sickness is preventable, much could be eliminated through preventive medicine. With proper training in childhood and youth, much of the poverty that arises for individual reasons might be gradually eliminated, although those cases which are the result of biological reasons are very difficult to solve. Improvement in environmental and social conditions requires effort which is beyond individual control—the community, state, and nation are here involved. Despite all the personal ambition in the world, opportunities for accomplishment are sometimes denied. Inadequate housing, unwholesome environment, faulty government, and abnormal economic cycles are some of the conditions which thwart individual effort and ambition. However, the control of such conditions is to be sought. The solution of such problems forms a large part of the burden of social education, and it depends upon the desire of the people. In considering the second purpose of this lesson, it must be recognized that inasmuch as earning capacities differ, incomes and standards of living must of necessity vary. But, inconsistency between income and standard almost always results in ultimate RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE poverty. The worship of wealth is not the goal of intelligent or composed living. The higher ideals of religion, spirituality, creative ability, modesty, and intellectuality all suffer because of such false worship. If people could cultivate contentment with what they could afford and relinquish the desire for the material things of life which are beyond their means, there would be less poverty. Certain commodities, such as an automobile to a physician, are necessities, while in other cases they are luxuries. If a luxury is justified by the income, well and good; if not, it should be eliminated from the expense account. At least peace of mind and more money for bread and butter will follow, even though the comfort and convenience of the luxury is given up. Effective production in goods and services is the goal which should be sought; and that standard of living which gives the largest margin of production over consumption is the efficient standard for both the individual and the nation. For one person it may mean an expensive level in monetary value, and to another it may indicate very small expenditures. Family expenses should contribute to the most efficient standard; and efficiency in maintaining one's work and service to mankind is the criterion. An extravagant outlay is a very real setback to many households. Goods and services of enduring value should not be sacrificed for transient values through lack of planning, haphazard buying, or giving in to momentary enticements, even though one might happen to have the money for such in hand. Relief of poverty is one of the most difficult problems with which society is confronted. It requires scientific study and administration. LESSON DEPARTMENT Each step towards the elimination of poverty requires widespread education in regard to its causes and a higher level of human judgment and accomplishment than now exists. But much can be done towards the relief and the prevention of poverty through consistent effort. The odd thing about relief is that much poverty is the direct result of unwise though well intentioned efforts to relieve its suffering. All efforts to help those in need should be preceded by a thoughtful consideration of the phases which follow in the wake of the relief. There are three points to keep in mind in all relief work: how to relieve, how to rehabilitate the dependent, and how to prevent poverty. Relief, when given, should be carefully supervised, and it should accomplish the purposes for which it is granted. Promiscuous giving is no longer considered a virtue. The spirit of the Latter-day Saints Church is devoted to the ideal of mutual help in enabling all to meet their problems, rather than the dispensing of charity for charity's sake. Two quotations from the Doctrine and Covenants illustrate this belief: "Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." (D. And C. 42:42) "Let every man be diligent in all things. And the idler shall not have place in the Church except he repents and mends his ways." (D. And C. 75:29) There are those who would escape from social problems by resorting to new and untried, or radical forms of government, such as the communists advocate. Such an approach should be offset by the following statement issued by the First Presidency: "Communism is not a political party 597 nor a political plan under the constitution; it is a system of government that is the opposite of our constitutional government, and it would be necessary to destroy our constitution before communism could be set up in the United States. Since communism, established, would destroy our American constitutional government, to support communism is treasonable." The problem of poverty requires the earnest attention of all who are interested in human welfare if the ideal of helping those who are capable of self-respect to achieve it is to be realized. Its relief should not be undertaken by those who do not understand the problem. Sympathy for the poverty-stricken should be saved for those who deserve it according to the best understanding of this unfortunate state. Activities 1, Evaluate the causes of financial difficulty in your own environment and determine how far an improper standard of living has contributed to the situation. This activity may be pursued as a community problem or as an individual one. 2. Make a model budget which would lead to your own financial security. 3. Through an interview with your bishop and the nearest governmental relief agent, determine the approximate number of people on relief in your vicinity. What proportion of the cases are due to personal causes, and what proportion are due to the present economic conditions? CHILD GUIDANCE Lesson 2 Can Motuers LEARN More Asout TRAINING THEIR CHILDREN? COMMON misconception held by parents is that they do not have to learn how to bring up their children, just as they must learn good manners, the use of the mother tongue, or the preparation of a good meal. They often imagine that Nature "takes care" of the rearing of children just as it does of begetting them. In the reproductive cycle of insects and some other very simple forms of life, each step in rearing the young seems to be definitely fixed by "instinct". There is very little evidence that these simple forms of life learn much about the business of being mothers. The case of the human family presents a strikingly different picture. The modern mother's education begins long before the child is born: she learns much about proper diets, calories and vitamins. After the child is born, she may learn many details of how the baby should be bathed, fed, and clothed. In fact she learns to love this squirming mass of life, her own child. The more she cares for it, the more she loves it. Before long, the baby becomes more than just a baby: it becomes a person for whom the mother begins to plan for satisfying feelings and attitudes. But much of this fondness is acquired through the intimate contact between the mother and the baby. Mothers do not have inborn ideas about the details of training their children. They probably for the most part learn their methods so far as they are at all definite, from their parents, grandparents, and nursemaids. Inasmuch as ideas about training childern are of human invention, we should not expect them to be more sound than human judgment. Now that modern psychology has shown that adults of middle age are almost as capable of learning new subject matter as their high school children are, parents need have no fear that they cannot learn the necessary facts to become artists at rearing their families. Parents are slow to improve their methods because they lack the desire to learn. Mature people have been known to increase their rate of reading a hundred per cent by simply persistenly trying to read faster. The quality of handwriting can likewise be improved, if there is a need for it. In most of our learned activities, we are apt to learn only enough to "get by". Parents in training their children usually do likewise. Many mothers are excellent practical psychologists in the sense that they understand the nature of children so intimately that they form the personality of the child as beautifully as the sculptor models his subject. However, by the help of science (which is simply more refined common sense), most mothers could improve their skill in child care and thereby avoid many defects in their children's personalities which might linger as handicaps throughout adulthood. We are taught through modern revelation to seek "diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith," and in another connection to "study LESSON DEPARTMENT and learn, and become acquainted with all good books, and with languages, tongues, and people." (D. & C. 88:118; 90:15.) The Lord probably reveals to us only those things that we cannot learn through the ordinary means of study and investigation. The managers of famous race horses, hunting dogs, and prize fighters know that heredity without proper training rarely makes a champion. The arts of training sporting animals are highly developed. But in too many cases the much more important task of training children is extremely thoughtless. Burbank, the great experimenter who has produced so many new varieties of plants, once said, "If we had paid no more attention to our plants than we 'have to our children, we would now be living in a jungle of weeds." Little do we realize the permanence of some of the scars left in the personality of the child because of our poor methods. In fact, we might go so far as to say that most of the behavior difficulties of children are the outcome of lack of understanding by the parents. If parents would realize how many failures in adult life have their roots in poor management during childhood, how many marriages are unhappy because the partners were not taught as children to live cooperatively with others, or how many adults enter mental hospitals partly because their parents did not understand them when they were children —then the parents would more nearly realize the importance of making enlightened child management the noblest and most painstaking business in life. The proper management of children is an art which is so complex that precise rules cannot always be 599 stated. Each child must be regarded as unique and as requiring individual treatment. In the fourteen lessons to follow, no pretense will be made at answering all questions about the psychological care of children. Much will be accomplished, however, if certain general attitudes, principles, and practices are taught concerning some of the most frequently occurring problems. In the first place, we should learn something about heredity and training and how they interact in the development of the child. Methods of training are frequently seriously warped by wrong ideas as to how these two classes of influences affect the personality of the child. We should know, also, something of the problem of how fears grow in children, what their effect is on the personality. When they persist, and how they can be overcome. Likewise, anger constitutes an important problem for parents. What conditions make for anger outbursts? Why do children throw temper tantrums? How can they be overcome? One of the most common practical problems parents have is how to administer rewards and_ punishments. What are the dangers of whipping? How shall we know how to give praise? Emphasis will be placed on the importance of good relationships between the parent and child which is necessary for good discipline. What are some of the causes of persistent bad feeling between parents and their children? What happens to the personality of the child when he breaks faith with his mother? One of the most difficult adjustments children are required to make is that involving sex. In no field of child training has there been more bungling than in sex instruction. 600 Under this topic, we shall try to learn how children's questions may be answered, and what can be done to direct sex interest into wholesome activity. Attention will be given also to the reasons children tell lies, with particular emphasis on how parents unknowingly make their children lie. With a better understanding of what is back of children's lies, parents should be in a better position to set up the conditions that promote truthfulness for its own sake. Something will be said also about the orderly stages of social development, how children can be prevented from developing mistaken ideas of themselves, what can be done for the child who. Feels inferior, how the child who feels superior should be treated. Because in adolescence we reap the results of mistakes in childhood training, space will be devoted to describing some of the special conflicts of this period of life. When does a person become psychologically mature or truly grown up? What can parents do to make psychological weaning as pleasant as possible for themselves and for the adolescent? How do projected ambitions of parents make weaning difficult? What difficulties sresult from failure to grow up? An effort will be made to give some kind of answer to these and some further questions of more general scope. Better habits in children are possible RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE only through improving the habits of the parents. Child guidance begins with correcting the faults of the parents. This is manifestly a most difficult task. However, progress is possible if parents can be given the "will to learn" through being made to sense their responsibility as the real moulders of character. Problems For Discussion 1. What do you consider is the true place of special training in child care? Show how scientific knowledge of child nature is not an adequate substitute for a mother's loving interest in the welfare of the child. 2. State your opinion on the relative importance of some professional knowledge about training children compared with what is known about training animals. 3. In the light of modern revelation, what do you consider is the obligation of Latter-day Saint mothers to study subject matter other than the scriptures? How does this relate to her mission of parenthood? (Doc. And Cov. 88:118.) 4. Compare the amount of learning involved in being a successful human mother with the learning required for the mother robin to successfully rear her young. State a few facts about caring for your children you feel certain you have learned. Mention any elements in your work as mother you think came to you without learning. WE should cultivate a spirit of appreciation and gratitude for others and what they have done for us and mean in our life. Happiness does not consist of what we have but what we are,—Not in our possessions, but in our attitude toward them.—Laura Lim. Points of View By Eva Wangsgard EVERYBODY is alright from k his own point of view," was a statement my father often used in explaining some action we could not understand. It is, of course, as true as most generalities and explains much that is difficult to comprehend. If people in a misunderstanding would endeavor to get the opponent's point of view, the difficulty would be very easily cleared up. That is another principle which the children have effectively proved for me. It began this way: For many years we left the townhouse each June and moved into a little old log cabin in the valley for the summer months. This cabin was more than sixty years old, made of logs squared by the broad ax. There was, attached at the rear, a lean-to of rough hewn timber. Water and other weathering agents had stained the grains in varying tints of brown, making pictures more or less distinct as the frost pictures used to be on the old farmhouse windows where I was reared. It was the children's habit, when they were ill or just resting from more active play, to lie on the screen porch bed and point out these pictures and comment on them. One day an intense dispute arose between two of them regarding a large dark brown stain. The girl insisted that it resembled a beautiful lady as you have heard people insist that they see a lady m the moon to one who cannot. The boy could see only a big ogre from a fairy tale. When the argument had progressed far enough to become annoying to the middle child he said, "Which one are you discussing?" They pointed it out to him, each explaining the merits of his, or her, point of view. "Oh," laughed Eldo, "that is my monkey. See here are his arms clinging to the limb. Here's his tail. Here's his funny face." They could all see the monkey and were very much amused by him. I thought, "How much like experiences in real life that is!" Those are, perhaps, the three commonest points of view. Let us say worry is the ogre among grown-up points of view, beauty, or seeing the blessing in disguise, is the beautiful lady, and a sense of humor is the monkey. How many near tragedies could be averted if the victim just could see the funny side, the monkey in the tree, as it were. After that, when an argument ensued among our flock, I often said, "Look more closely. Isn't there a monkey hidden somewhere?" There usually is, you know. It is usually easier to see the funny side of any disagreeable occurrence than to see the blessing in disguise. Either of them will slay the ogre, worry, easily. When we differ with some friend, next time, let us try to see his point of view and, perhaps, then we will agree with him; or failing that, perhaps, we can both see the monkey in the tree somewhere." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE FAITHFUL CLOCK By Ella J. Coulam I have a faithful household friend, Who serves me loyally— He counts out all the moments And prods me endlessly. When I am late, he rouses me And urges me to hurry; But for him, my reluctant feet Would cause me grief and worry. When I return again at night And hasten to unlock, The first to greet me at the door Is the tick of my faithful clock. Happiness Through Service Your Church University is dedicated to the principle that the highest happiness comes from efficient and faithful service. Therefore training for making a livelihood goes hand in hand with spiritual development: The aim is to develop both the will and the power to serve greatly. WELL-ROUNDED EDUCATION 1600 courses in 34 departments Colleges of Applied Science, Arts and Sciences, Commerce, Education, and Fine Arts. Graduate School. REGISTRATION FOR 62nd YEAR September 25, 26, 28 Write for Catalog Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH "Scholarship—Spirituality—Character" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY ARDEN GOLDEN GUERNSEY SALT LAKE’S PREMIER MILK PHONE Arden Dairy Wasatch 80 Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. SALT LAKE'S Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building ARDEN DAIRY Salt Lake City, Utah WASATCH 80 L D S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES No. 68. Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, Old Style 85c—New Style $.65 No. 500. Super Non-run Rayon, Short Sleeves and Knee Length 1.10 No. 70. Lt. Wt. Fine Combed Cotton........... 1.00 No. 173. Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton Silk Stripe, Ladies' New Style Only........ 1.25 No. 64. Med. Wt. Combed Cotton............ 1.25 No. 62. Hvy. Wt. Double Back Combed Cotton 1.60 No. 56. Extra Hvy. Wt. Double Back Combed Cotton 1.98 No. 82. 83 1-3% Wool 3.15 No. 70. 10% Wool Silk Stripe 2.26 Please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted; also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 10c. Postage prepaid. 20% extra for 48 and over. Visit our smart new men's shop 36 So. Main St. When in Salt Lake. Headquarters for missionaries. Est. 1877 Salt Lake City, Utah
L. D. S. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. No. 144. Light weight cotton, New or Old Style $.1.00 No. 83. Spring Needle. Lt. Wt. Cot. New or Old Style 1.25 No. 205. Fine rib. Med. Weight, New or Old Style 1.35 No. 405. Run resist rayon, New or Old Style 1.35 No. 464. Rib. Knit, Med. Wt., New and Old Style 1.00 No. 908. Heavy Weight Cotton Ecru or Old or New Style $1.75 No. 472. Elastic Knit, Light Weight, New Style Only .85 No. 609. Run resist rayon, Ladies' New Style Only 1.10 No. 758. Ecru or White, Med. Heavy Old and Men's New Style 1.65 No. 493. Light Wt. Cot., New Style Only .65
Established in Utah 45 Years BARTON & CO. 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
L. D. S. Garment Our Specialty We carry a complete line in old and new styles. The following numbers will interest you. No. 1. Ladies' Ribbed New Style......$.60 No. 2. New Style ribbed lgt. Wt. cotton. Our double back Number. Men's new or old style 1.50 Ladies' number .80 No. 3. Old or New Style ribbed lgt. Wt. Cotton, our standard garment 1.00 No. 4. Ribbed med. Wt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number. Men's new or old style 1.45 No. 5. Ribbed hvy. Wt. Unbleached combed cotton, an excellent Number. Men's new or old style 1.50 No. 6. Light weight garment, Ladies' new style 1.00 No. 7. Ladies' Rayon in 4 grades, $.80, $1.00 1.50 No. 8. Men's Rayon, in 2 grades, $1.25 1.50 No. 9. Old or New Style 10% Wool 1.95 No. 10. Heavy, part wool, old or new style 2.75
During Conference week we will mark the garments you buy of us free of charge. Make our store your headquarters. Nearest store in town to the Tabernacle and Temple. See our Virgin Wool Blankets, Men's Suits and Top-Coats, Ladies' Dresses and Suits. Factory to you. Keep this Magazine with our adv. For reference.
Original Utah Woolen Mills 24 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah One-Half Block South of Tabernacle South Gate
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XXIII OCTOBER, 1936 No. 10
CONTENTS
The Gift Divine.......................Adeline Rasmussen Ensign 603 Our Cover Picture................................................... 603 Frontispiece......................................................... 604 When to Begin...............................Mabel S. Harmer 605 Mrs. Benson Takes a Hand................Ivy Williams Stone 608 On the Trails of the Old Kaibab............Elsie C. Carroll 613 Happenings...........................Annie Wells Cannon 618 Our Project "Back to the Scriptures"............Hazel W. Wheeler 619 Trails of Smoke.....................Eva Willis Wangsgard 628 In a Magic Way.............................Ella J. Coulam 630 New Patterns in Sex Teaching.............Frances Bruce Strain 631 Dame Nature's Way..................Matilda A. Christiansen 633 The Gift of Storm......................Ellen G. Rees 634 Harvest Days.........................Lucy G. Bloomfield 638 The Magazine.........................Edna J. Gardiner 638 A Power Irresistible....................Eleanor Baird 639 I shall Not Care.......................Elsie E. Barrett 640 Notes from the Field..................Julia A. F. Lund 641 Editorials: Our Meetings Resume.................................... 645 Columbus....................................................... 646 The Ada Mohn-Landis Contest............................ 648 George H. Dern................................................ 648 Western Sunset.........................Lydia Hall 648 Lesson Department.......................................... 649 Obligation of the Church................................ 664 A Little Hero.........................Grace Jacobsen 665 A Plea.............................Nellie P. Elzinga 666 Only a Mother Could Understand............Janey Haefeli 667
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
THE GIFT DIVINE By Adeline Rasmussen Ensign
God gave to man a precious gift, And then was heard to say, "If you will rightly use this gift 'Twill ease your cares each day.
"It has the power to calm the mind, To soothe the aching heart, And now to you this gift divine I lovingly impart."
So man first took the hunter's bow And plucked the string with care, He heard a faint but pleasing sound— Lo—melody was there.
Then man praised God in true delight, He sang in chorus strong, And angels hearing joined in praise,— The miracle of song.
And now though long have been the years Since first this gift was given, Enriched by song, the soul of man Is kept in tune with heaven.
OUR COVER PICTURE
THE picture of the Juniper Tree on the cover is located in Logan Canyon, Utah, and is considered by scientists to be 3,500 years old. It is reached by a hike of two hours from the main canyon highway. In its persistent effort to live throughout these many years it has become twisted and gnarled—its branches having the appearance of huge ropes. The tree is still living and is lodged between two huge cliffs—the roots having split the rock formation surrounding it. This picture was painted by Joseph A. F. Everett of Salt Lake City.
Photo by W. D. Green
The Relief Society Magazine VOL. XXIII OCTOBER, 1936 No. 10
When To Begin By Mabel S. Harmer
A NOTED psychologist was once asked by a fluttery young mother, "How old should my child be before I begin training her?" He in turn inquired, "How old is the child?" When the mother answered that her little girl was three years old he replied, "Madam, you are already three years too late."
He was quite right. Children must be trained from the very cradle if they are to grow into the kind of men and women that we can be proud of. In the early years of a child's life his very helplessness is so appealing that it is a distinct pleasure to give in to his whims and caprices and do things for him that he might very well be doing for himself. A pleasure which must be curbed, however, if both the child and his mother are not to pay the well known piper later on.
As the years go on and responsibilities should be added gradually the tendency is to postpone the day when Paul or Mary will be grown up. One cannot expect a child who has been shielded for the first part of his life to suddenly assume the obligations of adult life and do so successfully. The banker does not call his twenty year old son in and say, "I am going to hand over the business to you now, my boy. Here are the keys to the vault. Go to it," unless he has trained him in the work for many years previously. To do so might prove very costly but no more so than to usher him into adult life without previous guidance.
All along the line we must build in the child habits of responsibility, self-control and co-operation and the earlier such habits are begun and cultivated the more usefully they will operate when needed. Children must be taught how to handle money by being given a small but definite amount to spend while very young. They must be taught to do simple tasks about the house and learn the value of moral laws.
It is unfortunate that the wrong thing is often the easy thing to do. Perhaps eight-year-old Molly is given the task of making her own bed and drying the dishes. For a long time the bed will very likely look exceedingly lumpy and mother will be somewhat embarrassed if a chance visitor happens to see it. Dishes in very young hands are frequently broken and dishes cost money. Besides all this it often takes a great deal more energy for mother to see that Molly does the work than if she went ahead and did it herself but she must put up with all of these inconveniences if Molly is ever going to be able to take care of a house when she grows up.
The most unkind thing that a parent can do in the guise of love is to 'spoil' a child. Of course he is adorable. He is cunning even when he is staging a little tantrum and it is sometimes extremely difficult to deny him things he wants or punish him for his misdeeds, but how sad it is to see a child robbed of the friendliness and companionship of other children because a fond parent has made his disposition unbearable. It sometimes happens, especially so of late, that a grandmother or aunt is staying in the home who insists on making the children "happy" at whatever cost it may be to the mother or the child itself. Their interest and pleasure in the children is a more or less temporary thing. It is the mother who has the responsibility and who in the long run will suffer the punishment if she does not firmly thwart these well meaning but erring relatives.
THE natural instinct of the very young child is to want to do things for himself. When he insists upon lacing his own shoes and mother is anxious to finish dressing him and get back to her household tasks it seems to be a never ending job. It is essential, however, that he be allowed to gain these first lessons in self-reliance and the wise mother will allow him this practice in becoming independent no matter at what cost to her time and patience. If the child is curbed in these early efforts to help himself he will soon lose the desire to do so and allow his mother to wait upon him as much as she chooses. Later when she suddenly decides that it is time for him to do some of these little tasks for himself she may be much annoyed and chagrined because he shows so little interest in the process.
It is essential, of course, that if a child is to learn to help himself he must have the facilities with which to do so. There must be a step which will enable him to reach the lavatory easily and wash cloths and towels hung within reach. Hooks hung low enough so that he can reach them will encourage him to keep his clothes hung up.
IN such practical matters as working at household tasks, spending money wisely and learning manners it is fairly easy to shape a successful course of training. In other ways it is rather difficult to know just what to prepare our children for when they grow up since no one is certain just what kind of a world they are going to live in under rapidly changing conditions. One thing seems to be certain and that is that there is likely to be a great deal more of leisure. Besides additional labor saving devices there will probably be a shorter working day and a shorter week for everyone. Mothers face a new and important task in preparing their children to use this leisure time to their advantage.
CHILDREN need not grow up to think that all their pleasures should be expensive ones. They should not grow up expecting to be amused during all their hours of leisure by forms of entertainment that develop no resources within themselves but depend exclusively upon outside entertainment. Amusement of this sort quickly palls. The parent who is alert to the future needs of her children will make the home environment as stimulating and sympathetic as possible to the nourishing of hobbies. She will keep alive the child's enjoyment in simple things. Perhaps one of the good things that will come out of this depression is that we are having to go back to more simple pleasures and pastimes for our happiness. Children who begin while young to develop absorbing interests will not need exciting entertainment when they grow older but will be able to find it in their own efforts and in the things of their own creation. Children who grow up without having their inner resources cultivated need to find artificial ways of whiling away their time. They develop what is known as "grandstanditis." They must have movies, radio or anything that they can watch and hear rather than participate in. They should be able to enjoy a walk in the woods, learn the value of beautiful music, sculpture or a fine play. Their lives should be enriched with worthwhile experiences so that they can learn discrimination.
SOMETIMES problems arise which we could not have foreseen when our children were smaller and consequently we are called upon to cope with them now without any previous warning or preparation. Such a one is the current problem of the young girl smoking. Only ten years ago a member of the church asked a representative of a large tobacco concern if the time would ever come when they would advertise for the patronage of the woman smoker. The man replied that such would not be the case, that they would not go so far as to proclaim the woman a smoker in their advertising. Alas! That he should have been so mistaken. It was only a very short time until ads appeared showing the young woman looking on approvingly at a man smoker. Next she was seen with the cigarette in her own fingers and now the most subtle means of advertising is used, that of giving the testimonials of socially prominent and beautiful women.
It is possible that many of our girls have taken to smoking because resistance has not been built up in them from the cradle as it has been in our boys. We never dreamed that it would be necessary. Parents are sometimes hurt that their boys are not considered qualified to go upon missions or perhaps be called to positions of responsibility in the church. They have not realized that in order to successfully preach the gospel to others they must have such a thorough understanding of it and a testimony as can only have come from early and persistent training.
This work of early training can be most frightfully discouraging. After years of impressing upon Johnny the necessity of saying 'please' and 'thank you' he will still go blissfully on his way without saying any of them except when especially reminded. His table manners seem to be those of a young outlaw when he refuses to hold his table implements properly, puts his elbows on the table and uses his thumb as a pusher. The reward of years of patient training comes, however, when he is invited out socially and finds that he has absorbed correct manners unconsciously and need not be embarrassed about the right thing to do at the right time.
THE teaching of correct moral principles, habits that make for good health and habits of industry must be begun at an early age and adhered to so unceasingly that a mother might easily be tempted to throw up her hands in despair at the whole problem if she didn't realize that she has to live only one day at a time and that she is rewarded many, many times over when she gives to the world an upright, industrious citizen. A satisfying confidence in the child's future adjustment and a well earned and justifiable pride is a parent's greatest achievement.
Mrs. Benson Takes a Hand By Ivy Williams Stone
"RELIGION AND HORSE SENSE"
THE news caused a stir of regret all along the street, for there were many friends of the Benson family who had enjoyed happy hours through the kind offices of this faithful old servitor. As the body of the old, blind servant was lowered into the grave under an apple tree in the family orchard, the four sons and two daughters of the family were unashamed as tears trickled down their cheeks. Samson had become a landmark, almost an institution, somewhat like the old jail building erected by Grandfather Pace and the big oak tree.
"We're glad you tended him, Mother, like you did." Thus spoke son David whom Samson had once saved from hazardous accident. "Some folks would have given him chloroform long ago, but he was just too human."
The sons filled in and rounded the grave, and the eldest son put up a neatly lettered headboard. "Let him rest in peace," they prayed in unison and filed silently away.
OLD SAMSON BENSON was dead.
WITH Judge Benson still exploring the Salmon River, with old Samson no longer needing her ministrations, Mrs. Benson felt the need of fresh activity. "I'll go ward teaching all afternoon," she planned early one morning. "That's a duty I seem to have neglected. I'll begin with Aunt Eliza Mall. She's lonesome too, since her only son is dead."
Mrs. Benson toiled up the long hill that led to Eliza Mall's humble cottage, atop a rather bleak, unfertile hill. Even the natural fertility of the soil had never been coaxed, for Amos Mall had been much fonder of taverns than he was of plowing. In fact, he had contracted fatal pneumonia the winter before, as he wandered home on a bitterly cold night and had gotten lost in an irrigation ditch. Big bodied man that he was of thirty odd years, there had not been as many people to mourn his death as had gathered over the grave of faithful old Samson. "First time I ever heard of a drunkard dying," muttered one unsympathetic person. "His old mother will be better off without him; he ate her out of house and home. Folks will be more willing to help her now he's gone," were some of the comments. And although it seemed rather mercenary and un-Christianlike, this latter was literally true. Men were now glad to help the aged widow, who had resented aiding her while an indolent son whiled away the summer months, letting winter care for itself. And Mrs. Benson had started a collection of cash. Actuated with the sense of personal pride and independence which she would have experienced under similar circumstances, Mrs. Benson had seen to it that the lump sum of money had been turned over to the widow, to let her make her own selections of what she needed.
It was a long walk and Mrs. Benson gladly accepted the chair which the Widow Mall proffered immediately upon her arrival. The chair was a creaky old rocker; but the best the room afforded. A ragged carpet, an unpolished old whatnot, and a marble topped table of ancient vintage completed the furnishings of the tiny "parlor." On top of the marble table lay a shiny new volume, and the Widow Mall, wiping her hand on her apron before touching it, proudly displayed this new treasure.
"See, Sister Benson," she fairly gloated in her maternal joy, "Look at the wonderful present Amos give me."
"Amos?" Mrs. Benson looked incredulously at the gilt edged, limp leather bound book labeled "Holy Bible." "Why, I didn't know—I thought—"
"Lots of other folks thought the same too," interrupted the Widow Mall. "Lots of folks in this town thought Amos was better off dead. But they didn't know him like I did. Takes a man's mother to know the best that's in him. Like the agent said that brought the book, 'Only a mother can know and understand a wayward son.' You see," she hurried on, anxious to explain the mystery, "Amos ordered this here book as a surprise for my birthday. He paid some down on it, when he ordered it, but being short of money at the time, he never was one to keep much money handy, he agreed to make monthly payments. Then he got sick and died, and when he never went near the store to make the other payments, they looked me up; and they let me pay the difference. They knocked off all their profit, when they knowed Amos was dead; but, like they said, they couldn't sell the book to no one else, cause of the engraving."
Mrs. Mall rose to her full height in her pride; placed emaciated arms on her thin old hips, but the light of maternal joy glowed resplendent in the faded old eyes.
"I only had to pay thirty more dollars, besides what Amos paid himself."
Understanding broke in full intensity upon Mrs. Benson's brain. Thirty Dollars for the cheap, imitation leather bound book that lay in her lap. Without even a concordance, or maps; such a book as could be purchased in any shop for less than three dollars. But the gilt lettered inscription had turned the trick. "To Mrs. Eliza Mall from her loving son Amos."
Instinctively Mrs. Benson knew from whence the thirty dollars had come. With the realization came again the memory of the long hours she had tramped about the district, collecting the dollars, halves and quarters that had made up the cash gift. She recalled the strained arches, aching feet, and belated suppers that had been the aftermath of each day's solicitations, until Judge Benson had rebelled and donated the amount necessary to raise the funds to one hundred dollars. "Footwear it was worth twelve dollars," he stormed, but his tone had been kindly.
"I skimped here and I saved there," beamed the Widow Mall, "in order to get the money. I figured you didn't mind my buying the things that made me happiest," she added. "I kept just one fire going, and I went to bed before lamp lighting time, and I bought stale bread at the bakery and put cardboard inside my shoes. I lived on soup with never a bit of meat to flavor it. As one mother to another, Sister Benson, that there book means more to me than angel food cake. I'd never knowed before that Amos was religious. He'd always been so careless like bout going to church. But that book proves his love: 'To Mrs. Eliza Mall from her Loving Son Amos.'" She repeated the words reverently, as she relaid the book upon its altar of cold marble.
"I read a bit in it every day. And when I gets lonesome I says to myself, 'Amos was religious.'"
"THIRTY DOLLARS! THIRTY DOLLARS!" The words beat a rhythm to her footsteps as Mrs. Benson walked homeward. "Preying upon sentiment! Swindlers! Racketeers!" She had heard of many confidence games but this surpassed them all. To Mrs. Benson, preying upon the credulity of bereaved people seemed a heinous crime. The farther she walked, the angrier she became; her cheeks were flushed and she had worked up a genuine hatred of such people and their nefarious practices.
When she reached her own gate she leaned upon the pickets and paused for breath, and gazed back into the orchard, at the newly made grave of faithful old Samson. Suddenly Mrs. Benson had an inspiration. They always came in a flash of keen intuition.
Although she was dusty and tired, she resolutely continued on down town to the establishment of her good old friend and second cousin, Mortimer Pace. In the earlier days Mortimer had been a combined furniture dealer and undertaker. Now, however, his more modern establishment bore the name of "Pace & Son, Morticians;" and Mrs. Benson had to go far to the rear to find old Mortimer, who was virtually superseded by the son.
Into his sympathetic ear Mrs. Benson poured the story of the Widow Mall's gullibility, and the rascality of the imposter. She also outlined her scheme for a fitting punishment of the latter, which had hatched in her fertile brain as she stood at her own gate.
Cousin Mortimer Pace smiled indulgently; then the smile broadened into a grin of keen appreciation; finally, after making several notes, he leaned back and beamed.
"Agnes," he had always liked this energetic cousin, "Agnes, you should have been a lawyer. I believe your plan will work. No harm in trying. Let's see now. Samson Benson, aged twenty-five years, died after a lingering illness due to blindness and malnutrition; private funeral held at graveside in family burial plot; other members of the Benson family are Judge Andrew W. Benson and wife and six children. I'll attend to it cousin; and we'll watch for developments."
Mrs. Benson felt like a child who has stolen his first apple. First she felt a sense of guilt; then a wave of righteous anger followed, as she visioned old Widow Mall, climbing into bed at dark, minus a lamp; living on soups and with scarcely any fire. Mrs. Benson did not confide her plans to her children. They would be sure to offer too many suggestions, or frustrate her plans. Children, she reasoned, had a way of believing that the ingenuity of parents ceased with the advent of grandchildren.
When the morning paper arrived Mrs. Benson scanned it hurriedly, like a child hunting the comic strip. In the obituary notices she found that which she sought, and smiled over the somewhat cryptic announcement:
"SAMSON BENSON: Aged twenty-five years. Death due to long illness of blindness and malnutrition. Graveside services were held in the family private burial plot. Survivors are Judge Andrew W. Benson, Mrs. Benson and the six Benson children."
Well, there was nothing in that announcement which was untrue. If any person wanted to interpret it as meaning that Samson was a real human being, it was his own affair. Cousin Mortimer Pace had said nothing untrue. Mrs. Benson again felt virtuous that she had not actually lied.
TWO weeks later she was wrapping the rose bushes against the winter frosts when the front gate clicked, and a young man came briskly up the walk. He was dapper and well groomed; he carried a green bag that was weighted with something heavy, and his eyes were covered with huge dark glasses. A smartly folded handkerchief protruded from the top of his coat pocket, his brilliantly hued hat was set at the prevailing angle, his shoes were shiny, and his whole bearing indicated self assurance and poise.
"Are you Mrs. Andrew W. Benson?" he inquired. Suavely, tipping his hat, while the white teeth showed the smile which the darkened eyes could not reveal.
"Yes," answered Mrs. Benson, hoping her sudden frustration was not too evident. "Ouch!" she cried with a mock twist of pain, "I—I pricked my finger!"
"I am looking for a gentleman named Mr. Samson Benson," continued the visitor. "I believe he lives here. Perhaps he is your son. He ordered a book from us and has never appeared to make any further payments. We thought he might be ill, or temporarily out of employment, or—" he stopped and coughed expectantly.
Mrs. Benson leaned far down over her rose bushes. "Samson is dead," she muttered.
"Dead! Impossible!" cried the young man with full and proper tones of sympathy in his voice. "Why he looked the picture of health when he called at our store to place the order. I would never have dreamed of his passing. Perhaps, however, he had some secret knowledge of his impending illness. Had not told you, hoping to spare you. He must have known, for the book he ordered was significant. Most significant. It was a specially made, hand assembled, gilt edged, limp leather Bible, printed on a rare and expensive quality of onion leafed paper."
The young man deftly opened the green bag and drew forth a Bible, an exact replica of the one that held the place of honor on the widow Mall's marble topped table.
"I'll wager they make them by the thousand," thought Mrs. Benson bending over to read the inscription: "To Mrs. Agnes Benson from her loving son Samson."
"My, I never guessed Samson was that religious," she muttered. "He used to go with us to church real often; in fact every Sunday, when he was younger. But he simply would not go inside. He always waited in the churchyard till the services were over."
"He had a deeper religion than you ever realized," added the visitor. "This is the proof," he tapped the Bible significantly and continued: "He made a down payment on the book, because of the special engraving on the cover. That makes it unsalable to others, you know. But, if you wish to pay the balance of our actual cost of fifty dollars, we will forego our profits. Far be it from us to profit upon the sentiments of bereaved parents. But we know you will want to cherish the emblem of his last act of remembrance for you; in time it will become your most cherished treasure."
Undoubtedly the shrewd visitor had quickly estimated that the appearance of the Benson home justified a rise of twenty dollars over that of the widow Mall's humble cottage.
"Did you see Samson yourself, when he placed the order?" Mrs. Benson felt self-composed now and as crafty as the imposter. "Did you talk to him?"
"I waited on him personally," answered the visitor with never the quiver of an eyelash. "He was a most remarkably built young man. Clear eyed, soft voiced, broad shouldered, alert, keen—a son to be proud of," he finished.
"Come out and see his grave," invited Mrs. Benson. "We were sort of sentimental about a cemetery. We buried him privately—right here in our own orchard; among the fields that he loved and under his favorite tree."
The young man seemed none too zealous to weep over any bier; but the vision of fifty dollars from this opulent appearing residence seemed nearer, and he followed obediently.
Mrs. Benson led him out through the backyard garden, past the fish pond and lily pads; past the garage and the pioneer jail; on to the field where Samson had spent his declining years in peace and plenty. She finally stopped beside the fresh mound under the apple tree.
The young salesman removed his hat and stood reverently, waiting for the bereaved parent to speak.
"Come round and see the headboard," invited Mrs. Benson, with a composure that amazed her listener. "I'm right proud of this headboard. My oldest son painted it himself. He's somewhat of an artist, and he loved Samson dearly."
Obediently the visitor walked around and read the inscription on the headboard; the green bag in his right hand, his hat in his left, the dark glasses still covering his eyes.
SAMSON BENSON "There was more horse sense in his horse head than there is horse sense in some men's heads."
His lips had moved automatically; but as he finished reading, he sensed the meaning of the epitaph. As the full weight of the ruse played upon him penetrated his senses, he dropped the green bag, pulled off his dark glasses, and turned fiercely toward Mrs. Benson.
"You advertised!" he cried vehemently. "You deceived me! The obituary said he died of blindness and malnutrition—I'll make you pay for this—I'll—"
"Samson did almost starve to death," interrupted Mrs. Benson, making a supreme effort not to chuckle. "His teeth got so long he couldn't chew. And he never went inside a church. But even at that, he had more religion than the drunken Amos Mall, whose old widowed mother paid you thirty dollars for a Bible that likely cost you about two dollars. I'm going to ask the Judge to prepare a bill to introduce into the next legislature, making it a prison crime to inveigle money out of simple folks when they are suffering from bereavement!"
Instantly the visitor lost his debonair expression; his face paled, he pulled his hat far down onto his head, and stumbled over the green bag. Finally with a glare in which hate, resentment, duplicity and frustration mingled, he fled rapidly down the orchard path to the lane gate, and soon disappeared along the street. There was no dignity in his retreat—only apprehension and speed.
"It's a pretty fair Bible at that," remarked Mrs. Benson after she had examined the contents of the green bag. "I'll ink out this inscription and present it to the Sunday School. Eddie Marsh can use the green bag to carry his books in, and the children can use these dark glasses when they lay under that new fangled lamp that makes canned sunshine."
As she walked slowly back to the house she felt that even missing the grandeur and ruggedness of the Sawtooth mountains had its compensations. Samson, like all good souls, had not died in vain.
On the Trails of the Old Kaibab By Elsie C. Carroll
CHAPTER VI
HELEN telephoned to the Lodge at Bright Angel, requesting that Dr. Grosbeck go immediately to Tess Morley's place to attend to an injured man. She was glad she had not needed to talk to Fred. As she stood looking at a large map in the dining room endeavoring to get her directions clear for her trip to House Rock Valley, Wood Russell came to her with two letters.
"These came on the bus two hours ago, but we couldn't find you. Both are marked Important, I hope the delay isn't serious. And by the way, Dr. Grosbeck was over and asked to have you call him on the phone this evening."
"Thanks," Helen took the letters and went to her cabin.
She knew the letters would be from Aunt Nettie and George. Aunt Nettie's letter was just what Helen might have predicted. She was shocked and amazed. Why hadn't Helen come and talked things over before taking such a rash step? Poor George was beside himself. She was sure that Helen was magnifying a small indiscretion. When she grew older and more experienced in married life she would learn that part of a wife's duty was to overlook slight side-steppings of her husband! Helen was commanded to come home immediately to forestall the scandalous publicity which was sure to commence soon if she did not return within the time of the ordinary tourist's trip. It was thus Aunt Nettie and George were explaining her absence to their friends.
She crushed the letter and put it together with George's, unopened, into the small heating stove. She touched a lighted match to them and hurried back to where she had left Maje. In a moment she was riding toward the trail to House Rock.
SHE had gone but a few miles when she saw two horsemen coming toward her. As they drew nearer she recognized one as Uncle Billy. The other was the boy Curly she had seen about the hotel and who she remembered had been sent to Steve's ranch with supplies. "Well, where do you think you are going?' Uncle Billy greeted her. "I was coming to find you." She tried to conceal her excitement. "May I talk to you just a minute?" She beckoned him to the side of the trail. "I need some advice." As quickly as she could she told about Lon. Uncle Billy was greatly excited. "I’ll send Curly back to the ranch with a note to Steve. I must go on to the hotel to do some telephonin' and wait for some letters Steve's expectin' on the next bus. But as soon as I can I'll git back to the ranch, so Steve can hurry to Lon. Somethings goin' to bust loose pretty soon if I'm not mistaken." After Curly had turned back with the note, Helen and Uncle Billy rode on toward the Park. She decided that it was time to make her identity known to him. "T know you are in a hurry, Uncle 614 Billy," she said wondering how to proceed, "but, well I need some advice, and you are the only one who can give it to me." "What is it?" "First I want to introduce myself. I am Sammy Huntsman Latimer." The old man jerked in his reins so quickly his horse stood on his hind legs. He turned and looked at her unbelievingly. "You're who?" "The daughter of your old friend Sam Huntsman." "Why, that—that—can that be possible?" They had slowed down to. A walk and their horses were side by side. "I knew there was a baby. But I got the impression the little feller died when the mother did. I didn't even mention it to Sam when he came back. And when we didn't hear anything after I wrote about his death—Well we just took it for granted that there wasn't anybody who cared." "The little fellow didn't die," said Helen seriously, "and she cared a great deal when you're letter came. If you knew my Aunt Nettie you would understand why you didn't hear anything from your letter. She is good enough in her way, but she never forgave my mother for marrying a cowboy, and I am sure she was glad when your letter came. She thought it would cure me of what she called my foolish notion that I was coming West to live with my father. I was only ten and Aunt Nettie had taken care of me from the day of my birth." The old man studied her in silence. Finally he said, "It's true! I can see Sam in your chin, the corners of your mouth, and most of all in your hair. I noticed it that first night you came. Don't you remember? It somehow made me think of Sam, the way it waves RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE back over your forehead. Does Steve know?" Helen shook her head. "I didn't know when I came out here that I would find anyone who had known my father, much as I hoped to. I've always wanted to come just to see the things he used to talk and sing to me about. Aunt Nettie tried to make me forget, and I don't know that I ever should have come—if—if something hadn't happened that made me feel I had to go some place for a while. Uncle Billy reached out and patted her hand. "Would you like to tell me about that?" After a little pause she told him briefly about George and why she had left home. "I didn't really think much about what I should find here, except that I did have an impression of the wonders of the scenery—and I'd always wanted to come. I even remember lines from some of the songs my father used to sing." The old scout smiled. "Sam and Tough used to make up songs by the yard. I remember the first night old Vaughn got them started at it. He said, 'What's the matter with you fellers? You're always singin' about Texas and Montana and Wyomin'. Why don't you sing something about your own country? God never made no better cattle country than right here on this old mountain.' Well, Sam and Tough started right then to make up a song about the trails of the old Kaibab. "Some of the rest of us chipped in with a line now and then, but most of the twenty-seven verses was Sam's and Tough's. And some of 'em was real poetry. I recollect this is how one verse went: ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB "There's a kind of white magic that sifts through the trees, When the moon sends her kisses along on the breeze, And a cow-puncher's life is somethin' to grab, When it's moonlight and June on the old Kaibab.' " For a moment Uncle Billy sat lost in memories and Helen watched him with a tightness in her throat. Finally he roused himself. "I don't-reckon you've heard about yore father's cattle." "Steve Heyden said they disappeared." "That sounds fishy, don't it? But it's the gospel truth. We was all so upset about Sam's death—and what happened after—that we didn't think about the cattle for awhile. Then when we did, we couldn't find hide nor hair of 'em. I made a trip clean to Texas to the place he said he was goin' to take °em. But they wasn't there. Nobody seen 'em leave this mountain. It's a mystery that makes you feel creepy. If we'd only knowed about you, we might a tried a little harder.". "I don't suppose there's the least chance in the world of ever finding the cattle after all these years?" Helen asked wistfully. "I’lI reckon stranger things has happened. There's been funny things goin' on ever since that time. You know about Steve's cattle disappearin' like they do. I've got a hunch' that if we ever can find the thieves that's takin' Steve's calves, we'll maybe find—your herd." Helen smiled. It was strange to hear such phrases. "I'm hopin' that what Lon Dean knows will help to clear up the mystery." Just before they reached the hotel Uncle Billy said, "I think it would be better if you 615 didn't tell Steve just yet about you. He's got enough on his mind. We'll give him a little time to work out some theories he's got about the stealing. But you can be sure of one thing. No matter whether you ever git your father's cattle back or not, Steve'll be fair with you, and you'll git your share of the rest of the property."
LATE that afternoon when Helen went from her cabin toward the hotel hoping she might learn something about Lon, she saw Steve and Uncle Billy riding away toward the House Rock trail. She was disappointed and thought that Uncle Billy at least might have informed her of conditions, now that he knew her secret.
That evening she went to the program in the entertainment hall still hoping she might learn something of the tangled affairs which had suddenly become of vital interest to her. She had not been in the room long when Mr. Hawley came and sat beside her.
"I don't see Mrs. Hawley here tonight," she said by way of conversation.
"No. She's gone to Salt Lake to see her doctor. She has no business out here at all. She doesn't like it and the high altitude doesn't agree with her. But she insists on coming. Pretends it's to look after Bernice, but between you and me," he leaned close to Helen, "I think she knows her old man has a weakness for pretty women."
She drew herself away. "So I have heard," she laughed. "Mrs. Carter warned me against you when I first arrived."
"That old busybody makes me tired."
"Have you been in the cattle business long?" Helen changed the conversation.
"About twelve years." She started. Something seemed to click in her mind. Her thoughts went racing with wild possibilities. "Was your father a cattle man out here before you? I've been interested in hearing of the old-time cattle kings."
"No. I'm the first cattle man in our family." He shifted his position and nodded in the direction of a group of tourists who were entering the room. "That's a pretty little dame in the green suit."
Helen felt that he wished to change the subject, but she persisted. "You've done very well in the business from what I hear. Some men spend a lifetime at it, don't they, and even then haven't much to show for it?"
"I suppose you mean Crossley. He's no business man. He's always fussing around with other people's affairs instead of attending to his own. I don't have much respect for that kind of a fellow."
There was a movement at the door. Someone was standing outside, peering in. Helen caught a glimpse of a sandy-haired man with a shaggy red beard. Where had she seen that face before. Her pulses pounded. Hawley caught sight of the man. She was sure he was startled, and that he gave a quick signal. A moment later he excused himself. "Guess I'll be turning in. I don't want the missus to hear any bad reports when she gets back." He laughed significantly, but his eyes were still on the door, and he hurried away.
Helen stepped quickly to a window and looked out. She saw Mr. Hawley and the unkempt stranger walking swiftly toward Hawley's cabin. She was sure the bearded man was the one she had seen with Lon Dean the day she and Steve were coming from Point Sublime. And Hawley had been following them that day. What could be the meaning of it all? Helen soon went to her cabin. She wanted to think.
THE next day there was a buzz of excitement around the hotel. Cattlemen and sportsmen had met to arrange for the annual rodeo. Already Helen had heard much of this event and had seen some of the men who would participate, going through their riding and roping exercises out in the flat. Thereafter, new contestants and fans came and went, and everybody talked of the coming sport. Helen had understood that Steve Heyden was one of the chief promoters of the rodeo, but she looked in vain for him and for Uncle Billy Crossley. What had Steve found when he reached his ranch that day after they'd seen Lon Dean with the stranger? How was Lon? It was strange that she should hear nothing of his accident. Though she refrained from making inquiries, she had ridden twice to Tess Morley's place, but had found no one at home. Two or three times she'd seen Tess, but always with a group of men, and there had never been an opportunity to talk with her.
Repeatedly she thought of Hawley's meeting with the red-bearded stranger that night at the dance. What was their business together? What was her own part to be in this strange tangle?
Frequently she went for long rides on Maje. Out on the mountain trails she could, for a time at least, lose herself in the beauty about her.
ONE morning she saw Fred Grosbeck coming toward the hotel from a car parked near the filling station. She had not called him on the telephone as he had asked. There was no escape; she might as well have it over with.
"Don't you know you're treating an old friend pretty shabby?" he chided, taking both her hands. "I know Fred. But I was sure I knew what you wanted to say to me. You've had a letter from George, haven't you?"
They walked to the porch and sat down.
"I've had three. Helen, the poor devil's beside himself. You're not really walking out on him for good are you? I wouldn't blame you for punishing him for his foolishness. He deserves that, and he admits he made a fool of himself. But Lord, Helen, you know you're the girl he's crazy about."
She sighed wearily. "You may as well save your breath, Fred. It's all over between us. George and I don't look at the fundamentals of life in the same way."
"But, Helen, you must realize you're living in a modern world. Little back-slidings such as George is fool enough to indulge in are not unpardonable sins. You're too sensible to wreck both your lives for a narrow Puritanical idea of morality."
She got up. "Please Fred, I'd rather not talk about it. I've done the only thing I can do. It may look Puritanical and narrow, but I can't help it. I'm what I am, and George is what he is. We don't look at such things in the same way. It would be foolish to try to patch this thing up, only to have the same trouble again later."
"But you wouldn't. I tell you George is suffering. Won't you give him another chance?"
"No, Fred, I'm sorry. But for me, love must grow out of confidence and respect. I know George's attitude too well. Please let's not talk about it any more. You see, I probably let love and marriage mean too much to me. But I'm that way. It's got to be everything or nothing. I suppose I'm not a modern."
She held out her hand. "We can still be friends."
"Of course. But I'm sorry for old George."
"Aren't you coming out to Bright Angel?" he asked. "I've almost given up looking for you. I'd have been over before to take you, but I have a patient whose been keeping me on the job night and day the last ten days."
"Is your patient one of the employees of the Lodge?"
"No. It's a young Indian who got a nasty wound and it's badly infected—Streptococcus. He may not pull through even with all I'm doing. I must get back now. Just came in to meet the bus for some serum I'd sent for." He started into the lobby. "I'll be looking for you. And I'll still be hoping you'll change your mind about George."
"Put such hope out of your mind, Fred. Goodbye."
Helen was relieved to have the conference over. But she was worried about Lon Dean.
(To be continued)
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
OCTOBER. The mystic touch of Indian summer spreads its glorious tapestry o'er the twilight of the year.
LOTTE LEHMANN, metropolitan soprano, was the great attraction among all the artists at the famous Salzburg musical festival this last summer. As Eva in Der Meistersinger and Leonore in Fidelio she was especially dramatic and vital.
ELISABETH BERGENER, famous throughout Europe for her realistic acting in "Escape Me Never," has now a new picture equally successful called "Dreaming Lips."
ETHEL DREW BARRYMORE, after 24 years as a leading star on stage and screen, has retired from the world of glamour and expects to enjoy a happy peaceful life on her country estate. She offers to help ambitious young women in the line of dramatics at any time.
RUTH CHATTERTON, charming actress, has gone in for flying as a hobby. She instituted the Chatterton cross country derby, but she herself had to make a forced landing almost at the start.
MARJORY GESTRING, just 13, petite and youthful Californian, captured the Olympic women's springboard diving championship for the United States at Berlin this summer.
MRS. MARIE BROWN, of Midvale, has been appointed justice of the peace. She is the first Utah woman to receive this honor.
HELEN JACOBS has held the American tennis championship crown for four successive years. This year she meets a formidable array of nationals from all parts of the country.
MISS ROONA BREEN, of New York, was ejected from St. Joseph's Roman Catholic church because she attended dressed in slacks. The priest defended his action with the statement, "She wouldn't appear before the president nor the king of England so dressed neither can she approach my King of Kings."
RUTH BRYAN OWEN ROHDE, has resigned her diplomatic post to enter the election campaign. Is this not a loss of dignity in Madame Minister!
GRACE COOLIDGE, recently returned from Europe, has a preference for American hats. It is also stated skirts will have more fullness and ermine will be the popular fur.
MRS. JEANETTE ACORD HYDE, who died last August 16 in Honolulu, was sixteen years a member of the General Board of the Relief Society. She was prominent in many lines of activity, and much beloved.
EDITH SITWELL'S "Victoria of England," Eleanor Dark's "Return to Coolami," Christine Parmenter's "King of Beacon Hill," and Honore Morrow's "Let The King Beware," are among the late books by women.
Our Project "Back to the Scriptures" By Hazel W. Wheeler
The curtain rises on a family group of children preparing for an evening of Scripture study. They arrange four chairs in a semi-circle in front of a rocker which they place beside a reading table on which stands a lamp. They place a Bible on the table and seat themselves. The first child calls to mother who is in kitchen finishing evening work.
1st Child: All ready, Mother. (Mother soon appears.)
Mother: I am ready at last. (She smiles happily at the anxiously waiting children.)
2nd Child: Now for some real true Bible stories. Our teachers tell us fairy stories but we like the true stories you tell us best. (Mother seats herself and takes Bible as she says.)
Mother: Our story tonight is about Abraham, who had so much faith in everything the Lord told him, and obeyed him so well that Heavenly Father called him the 'Father of the Faithful.' We have already studied about whom? (Mother indicates each one to answer.)
1st Child: Adam and Eve our first parents who lived in the garden of Eden.
2nd Child: Cain and Abel, two of their sons.
3rd Child: Enoch, the leader of the people who obeyed all the commandments and became so good that Heavenly Father took them and their city out of this earth.
1st Child: Noah, who built the Ark and saved himself and family and two of every kind of animal, bird, and fish from drowning, all because he obeyed the Lord.
Mother: Good. Now Abraham. (A knock is heard on outside door. Mother pauses, while Harry, 1st child, admits neighbor child.)
Child: Mrs. Brown, Mama wants to know if you will please come over for a while. Our baby is sick.
Mother: Certainly I will. Sit down while I get my coat. While I am gone children, you may review the names of the books of the Old Testament and perhaps by that time I may be back. (Exits with neighbor child. Her children are disappointed but rally bravely to her suggestions.)
1st child: Let's begin with the oldest, no the youngest, and see who can repeat the books of the Old Testament without making a mistake.
4th Child: (Stands and repeats books correctly. 3rd, 2nd and 1st do the same respectively.)
2nd Child: Now what shall we do?
1st Child goes to door looks out and comes back and says: She isn't coming yet, what shall we do?
2nd Child: Let's repeat the names of all the books together and perhaps by that time she will be here. (They repeat books in concert. 3rd Child goes to door, looks out and returns saying): I can't see her anywhere. What shall we do now?
4th Child: I'll tell you! Let's play like you two (indicates 1st and 2nd children) were home studying the Scriptures and the Relief Society teachers came to visit you, and you said the books for them. Patsy (3rd child) and I will be the teachers.
1st Child: You don't know how to be Relief Society teachers.
3rd-4th Child: (In Chorus) Yes we do. Let us show you.
1st Child: All right. (3rd and 4th Child scamper out and don long coats also hats; a knock is heard on door.)
1st Child: Come in. (3rd and 4th child enter carrying purses as 1st and 2nd children are busy studying Bible.)
2nd Child: (Looking up from Bible) How do you do? Sit down.
3rd Child: We are Relief Society Teachers. We called today to see if you are well, and how you are getting along these times. And if you are cooperating with us in our project, "Back to the Scriptures." We also bring you a message of good cheer. (Hands over a slip of paper supposed to be a verse.)
2nd Child: Yes, indeed we are cooperating. We enjoy studying the Scriptures. We love the true stories we find in them.
1st Child: We already know the names of the books of the Old Testament.
3rd Child: You do? Fine! Could you repeat them for us? (1st and 2nd children repeat them in concert.)
4th Child: Wonderful! Keep on studying the Scriptures and by the time you are grown you will be able to go on a mission and teach them to other people.
3rd Child: We are happy to find you well. We must go now. We have other places to visit. (Both say goodbye and exit to return without coats, hats, and purses. They say together): Now don't we know how to be Relief Society Teachers?
1st Child: You did swell.
2nd Child: (Goes to door looks out and comes back saying) Mama isn't coming yet. What shall we do next?
1st Child: Let's go to sleep until she comes. Then we can wake up and hear the stories and not be sleepy. (Children, who are all sleepy, readily agree. They settle down in the chairs. One leans over on table, one occupies two chairs, one uses the rocker and all are soon fast asleep and dreaming.)
A colored light that represents night is turned on. Chanting is heard off stage.
Chanting: Back to the Scriptures! Back to the Scriptures! The Scriptures are being searched The Scriptures are being searched Study and faith are being renewed Hope is revived again.
(Before chanting ceases in come one at a time in their order people representing the books of the Old Testament. They come in like spirits out of the past, stand while the reader reads a speech then move up stage on platform. They are dressed in costume of Old Testament times with the name of the book they represent in large letters on a crown they wear.)
Reader: The Prophets ever interested in the welfare of mankind scan the horizon of time down through the ages to catch a glimpse of the extent, if any, of their influence on present and future generations. (They shade their eyes with their hands and peer afar off into the future.)
(All the Prophets chant in chorus: Back to the Scriptures, etc.)
Reader: (First Genesis) I am Genesis which means beginning. I give you an account of the beginning of the world, of time, man, sin, and civilization. I tell you of the righteousness of Adam and Eve, our first parents. Of Abel their son and first man slain. Enoch the leader of the people of the perfect city; Noah who preached repentance one hundred and twenty years to a disobedient people. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph who was sold into Egypt and the many faith promoting, character building lessons their lives contribute to the world's best literature.
Second, Exodus: I am Exodus. I give you an account of the oppression of the Children of Israel during their sojourn in Egypt. Of the miracles Moses performed to soften the hard heart of King Pharaoh. Of the seven plagues sent to goad the Egyptians and their flinty king into releasing the Israelites. I recount vividly the flight of Israel—their crossing the Red Sea on dry land, and many other manifestations of the mighty power and mercy of God to them in their forty years' sojourn in the wilderness.
Third, Leviticus: I am Leviticus, the Book which contains the laws relating to Holiness. The name Leviticus refers to the priestly tribe of the Hebrews or the tribe of Levi. I explain the Sin Offering, the Peace Offering, and all. The various offerings to be kept by Israel. I sound the warning "Ye shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my Sanctuary," sayeth the Lord. And if ye keep my commandments I will give you rain in due season and the land shall yield her increase and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit.
Fourth, Numbers: I am the Book of Numbers. I carry on the narrative of the exodus to the end of the fortieth year. I recount the numbering of the children of Israel by their tribes. Even the twelve tribes of Israel as the Lord commanded Moses. The numbering which revealed the great increase and strength of them. A blessing from the God who preserved them in the days of their bondage; and brought them forth for a mighty purpose in fulfillment of a promise made to their father Abraham.
Fifth, Deuteronomy: I am Deuteronomy meaning 2nd law. I bear record of the events of the last month of the forty years' wandering of the Israelites. I also give a vivid account of the early colonial life of the Hebrews. The greater part of my book is an account of the discourse Moses delivered before his death, setting forth to the Israelites the laws they were to obey when they were settled in the "Promised Land."
Sixth, Joshua: I am Joshua the son of Nun. The Joshua who took command of the exodus after the death of Moses. Under the direction of God I supervised the Israelitish conquest of Canaan. I led our armies around the vast wall of Jericho. I saw the mighty wall quake, shake and fall. In the name of Israel's God I commanded the sun to stand still and give us light and time to finish an important battle victoriously. My book ends with the closing events of my life.
Seventh, Judges: I am the book of the Judges in Israel who reigned during the lawless, disorganized period after the death of Joshua, until the Lord their God gave them a King to rule over them. The Lord expected us to direct them in their warrings against their enemies but they seldom hearkened. They remembered not the great things the Lord their God did for their Fathers. Judges were thirteen in number only four of whom were great men whose courage was the kind men never forget.
Eighth, Ruth: I am Ruth of Moab. The daughter-in-law of Naomi, the Israelite. I entreated her not to leave me nor to cause me to return from following after her. I said, "Whither-so-ever thou goest, there will I go. Where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people and thy God my God." My story is written to show more tolerance to foreigners than was shown by Ezra who strove to have all Jewery give up their foreign wives. The great king David came through my lineage, even I a gentile woman.
Ninth, Samuel: I represent the books of 1st and 2nd Samuel. My story begins with the birth of Samuel, the promised son of Hannah and Elkanah. I tell you of their devout life; of their sacrifice in giving their only child to the care and keeping of Eli, the officiating priest in the temple. I, Samuel, grew up in the Temple and learned very early as a child to obey the will of God. I sought all my days to walk uprightly before him. I lived to see the Israelites turn away from the government of the judges and prophets and demand a king. It was I, even I who anointed their first king to rule over them. Even Saul. I tell you of the illustrious David, their second king and the man who served God all his days with one exception. I form the connecting link between the Theocracy and the Monarchy.
Tenth, Kings: I represent the books of 1st and 2nd Kings. I tell you of the reign of Solomon, son of David, Solomon, the wisest and richest king in Israel. I give you a history of the divisions of the kingdom, after the death of Solomon, into the kingdoms of Judah and Israel. I tell you of their waywardness and disobedience and finally the destruction of Jerusalem and their capture by the Babylonians.
Eleventh, Chronicles: I represent the books of 1st and 2nd Chronicles. I treat the same period of Israelitish history as do the two books of the Kings. But unlike them I deal with the priestly ecclesiastical life of the people. I give their genealogies, statistical registers, description of their religious ceremonies and organizations of their public worship.
Twelfth, Ezra: I am Ezra the priest and ready scribe in the law of Moses. The God of heaven sent me out from captivity by the good will and decree of the Persian King to return and aid in the rebuilding of the wall of Jerusalem; I begin my narrative of Jewish history where Chronicles leave off, carrying it forth until the time of the theocratic institution.
Thirteenth, Nehemiah: I am Nehemiah, son of Hachaliah. By permission of the Persian King I also returned from captivity to direct the rebuilding of a portion of the broken wall of Jerusalem our beloved city. Like Ezra I take up the narrative of Jewish history and continue until the theocratic institution of the times which was instituted by the combined efforts of Ezra and myself.
Fourteenth, Esther: I am Esther, the orphaned and despised Jewess, who lived in captivity with my uncle in the Persian capital. My story tells how I became queen and how by fasting and prayer I found favor in the eyes of the Lord and also my husband the king and saved my people the Jews from destruction. I instituted the Jewish feast Purim in commemoration of our victory that day.
Fifteenth, Job: I am Job who had patience and faith despite my boils. In a dramatic poem I try to fathom the cause of human sufferings. Behind the simple story of my suffering lies some of the most beautiful and profoundest lessons given in the Bible. For "I know that my Redeemer liveth and even though the skin worms destroy my body yet in my flesh shall I see God." My book also contains some of the profoundest world music ever chanted. But the melody, the tune of it has rarely been heard in its greatness and compass, because men generally have brought to it too small a soul.
(Chanting is heard off stage, as soon as Job finishes speaking. Chanting: I know that my Redeemer liveth, etc.)
Sixteenth, Psalms: Psalms is my name. I am a collection of Hebrew songs and poetry of praise to God. From the standpoint of literature I mark the high points in the Old Testament. For witness: "The Heavens declare the glory of God. The firmament showeth His handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night showeth knowledge. There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard." (Read, if desired, Psalms 23:24, 31, 37.)
Seventeenth, Proverbs: My name is Proverbs. I give you the wisdom literature of the Hebrews. My teachings have a practical aim. Not only do they contain maxims of conduct, they are also moral advisors as wisdom is the principal thing. "Therefore get wisdom and with all thy getting, get understanding. Hatred stirreth up strife but love covereth all sins. Go to the ant thou sluggard, consider her ways and be wise. Who so stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor he also shall cry himself and shall not be heard. Happy is the man that findeth wisdom and the man that getteth understanding. For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver and the gain thereof than fine gold. Be not a witness against thy neighbor without a cause; and deceive not with thy lips."
Eighteenth, Ecclesiastes: I am Ecclesiastes. I too give you Hebrew wisdom, literature with a considerable keen insight into the problems of human life. Mine is the gratification of individual desire in every conceivable form only to learn all is vanity. Nothing endureth. There is no steadfastness. But in old age he finds at last that which gives satisfaction, the one safeguard against a lifetime of fruitless searching and disappointment. "Remember, now thy Creator in the days of thy youth while the evil day come not, nor the years draw nigh when thou shall say I have no pleasure in them."
Nineteenth, Song of Solomon: I am the Song of Solomon. A poem of love. The Song of Songs of the Bible. A lyric drama with a pastoral background. Tradition says that King Solomon wrote me. My theme is the triumph of virtuous love over all the riches that a Great king can offer.
Twentieth, Isaiah: I am Isaiah, the statesman prophet of the Lord. Often I am called the prince of prophets. My book is perhaps the greatest prophetic book in the Old Testament. Its spirituality, love of justice and conception of God are high points in Hebrew literature. Its leading subjects are: majesty of man, sinfulness of man, divine judgment, salvation for a remnant, and refuge in God alone. I sound the whole gamut of human emotions. Blessed of my God with intellect, abundant energy, and splendid faith, I have achieved a place among the great writers of the earth.
Twenty-first, Jeremiah: I am Jeremiah, the gloomy prophet. I received this distinguishing title because of the bitter invectives I hurl against the narrow religious bigotry of my day. And because of my predictions of national disaster at the hands of the Babylonians. I have been classed with Isaiah for my universal conception of God and for the stress I place upon individuality in religious living. My unswerving devotion to the will of God, my dauntless courage in rebuking evil, and my supreme faith in God's plan for Israel reveal my character.
Twenty-second, Lamentations: I am Lamentations. Upon my pages are written five poems, all dealing with a common theme; even the calamities that befell the people of Judah and their beloved Jerusalem by the Chaldeans.
Twenty-third, Ezekiel: I am Ezekiel the prophet and a captive in Babylonia. I give to you my religious and prophetic thoughts. My conviction is that further judgments are eminent for the Jews in the future. My growing anxiety is to win the souls of individuals who might form the nucleus of a purified Israel in the future. My book covers twenty-two years of prophetic ministry, and there is no better example to be found of the human side of the Scripture than it contains.
Twenty-fourth, Daniel: I am Daniel. I give you the story of the faithfulness of Daniel and his three comrades, all Hebrews, while in captivity. We kept the commandments contained in the Scriptures as taught by our parents, and the Lord never forsook us. He gave us wisdom and strength, faith and courage to triumph over the trials and tests of the hard life of a captive. The lions did not devour me when I was thrown into their den; the fire did not burn my three companions, for we had obeyed the will of God. I saw in vision centuries before it happened the stone cut without hands out of the mountains that was to roll and break in pieces the ten kingdoms and fill the whole earth. God gave me dreams and visions; and the interpretation of troublesome dreams of kings.
Twenty-fifth, Hosea: I am Hosea, the prophet of pity who saw the heart of God waiting to forgive his prodigal peoples. I am from the northern kingdom of Israel. The aim of my prophecy is to show the forgiving love of God to erring Israel. There will be punishment but there will also be a bright future, if Israel will repent. As I forgave my wife her sin against me, surely God will be equally compassionate to Israel.
Twenty-sixth, Joel: I am Joel. I give you a book of judgments. I persistently and eloquently urged repentance before the coming of the terrible day of Jehovah. The people gave ear and they received blessings many and rich both spiritual and material. But above all there will come a great outpouring of the spirit of prophecy. And the terrors which are to come will not affect the Jews.
Twenty-seventh, Amos: I am Amos the prophet of justice. Into the midst of a corrupt civilization I came as a preacher of righteousness: a solitary man armed only with the truth entering a great city with the purpose of converting a nation. I declare the stern, unflinching justice of God. Perhaps I am bitter against the luxury and religious pride of the northern kingdom of Israel, but I warn them fully of the calamities which God is going to rain down upon all nations who do not live justly. None can escape. God is not mocked; neither is he appeased by feasts and offerings. Prepare to meet thy God, oh House of Israel.
Twenty-eighth, Obadiah: I am Obadiah. I could not forbear adding my voice of warning to those of the other prophets. Although my warning is short it is forceful. It foretells entirely the ruin which is about to fall upon the tribe of Edom (Esau) that live just south of the dead sea.
Twenty-ninth, Jonah: I am Jonah. I try like Ruth to show God's love for all his children, Jew and non-Jew alike. As an exposition of God's love for all people I challenge any and all of the other writers of the Old Testament to surpass it. In true repentance out of the depths of hell cried I unto the Lord. Even out of the belly of the whale, and he heard my cry. Because I had accepted fully the fact that God is the God of all nations.
Thirtieth, Micah: I am Micah, a younger contemporary who sympathizes with the peasantry in their sufferings. I attack not perhaps with greater boldness but with greater directness and in more scathing terms the wrongs to which they have been exposed at the hands of the rich rulers of Judah. While Isaiah is concerned with the political side of it, I, Micah, am concerned with the ethical and religious side of it.
Thirty-first, Nahum: I am Nahum. I give you just three short chapters. The theme of which is the fall of Nineveh, the capitol of the Assyrians. In extremely forceful language I paint vividly terrible pictures, as I gloat over the downfall of this powerful city because of the past cruelty and harshness it has imposed upon my people.
Thirty-second, Habakkuk: I am the prophet Habakkuk, who in a dialogue with Jehovah inquires about the violence and injustice that prevails on every hand. Jehovah answers me that the Chaldeans are to be instruments of punishment for the prevailing evils but in the end their pride will be their downfall. Like Nahum I occupy but a small space and belong to the group known to Bible scholars as the "Minor Prophets."
Thirty-third, Zephaniah: I am Zephaniah. The spirit wrought strong, and I could not withstand it. I predict the approach of the great and terrible day of Jehovah, and of the condemnations that is to be heaped upon the Jews who have adopted foreign ways of living and who are corrupted with ways of intrigue, and those who are religiously indifferent. But out of the coming trials a preferred remnant will be loyal to God and dwell in safety in their own land.
Thirty-fourth, Haggai: I am the prophet Haggai. My strength and time I spent trying to enthuse the Jews who have returned from exile to rebuild the temple at Jerusalem to Jehovah. Drought and crop failure will combine until the Jews rally to this important duty. As long as the temple remains unbuilt the Jews will remain an unclean people. I succeed in giving my people a new hope; the promise of a new and glorious age.
Thirty-fifth, Zechariah: I am Zechariah the Prophet who joins with Haggai in seeking to induce the Jews to finish the rebuilding of the temple. To begin with I send out an earnest call to repentance. Then in the eight symbolic visions that follow, I give encouragement to the people, especially to Zerubbabel and to Joshua, the civil and religious heads of the community, in the work of rebuilding the temple. The significant features of each of these visions were pointed out to me by an angel.
Thirty-sixth, Malachi: I am Malachi, a prophet and sage, who exhorts and rebukes. I rebuke the prophets for being neglectful of their duties. I rebuke the Jews for contracting foreign marriages, also those who question the divine government of the world, and those who have been neglectful in the payment of their tithes. I announce the day of judgment when Jehovah will appear to purify the unworthy priests and punish his guilty people. Then again I lift my voice to exhort the people to obey the Mosaic law, and promise the advent of Elijah the prophet.
Reader: The life of the prophets is not a flowery one. They spent a lifetime of struggle to establish truths and right among the heedless children of men.
The march of the Prophets. Genesis leads, all follow him down from the terraced platform but break into several short lines and march in a criss-cross fashion holding unlighted candles and marching in a posture as with drawn swords to indicate struggle. They form into a double line and march with bowed heads and clasped hands to denote sorrow still holding unlighted candles. As they change from "sorrow" they, unobserved if possible, light candles and form into single line and change from the slow sorrowful tread to a lively triumphal step, bodies and heads erect and candles held high. A grand triumphal march finishes. The music for this march should depict first struggle, then sorrow and finally triumph. The lights also must agree to give desired effect. The prophets march off stage triumphantly and chant. The mother returns, tired and worried, to find children asleep. She gazes on them with pride and decides to warm up and rest by the fire before wakening them for bed. She draws a chair before the fire and sits down. As she relaxes and becomes warm, she too falls asleep.
Chanting is heard off stage.
Chanting: Back to Scriptures, etc.
Before chanting ceases, Books of Old Testament begin returning to stage. They come in and form in three groups facing the mother. After they march they chant:
How beauteous are their feet who stand on Zion's Hill, Who bring salvation on their tongues and words of peace reveal; How blessed are our ears that hear the joyful sound Which kings and prophets waited for and sought but never found; How blessed are our eyes that see the Heavenly light So long desired by ancient seers who died without the sight. The watchmen join their voices and tuneful notes employ, Jerusalem breaks forth in song and deserts learn the joy.
Books in Unison: We are the scriptures. We come to you down the ages of time out of the past, heavily laden with messages of light and truth and a knowledge of your Creator even the Creator of Heaven and Earth. We mark the path by which you may return to Him. "Search the scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal life and they are they which testify of Me." "Seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto you." We commend you and congratulate you, O little mother of the children of men, for your faith and integrity in your effort to teach your children "God and Truth" through the Scriptures. Blessed be thy efforts, "Back to the Scriptures."
Isaiah steps forward and places a crown on the sleeping mother's head, bearing the words, "Integrity and Faith." He returns to place and the books repeat:
The Hebrews wrote their national history in Historical books, in books of prophecy, in books of Song and devotion and in books of wisdom, religion and philosophy.
1st Group: Books of History (Genesis to Esther inclusive) hoist a banner above their group bearing the name of the group, and say in unison:
The idea of one God unseen and not to be worshipped in visible form had been taught in the beginning, and taken a firm hold on human minds. This is the outstanding achievement of the Hebrews, the thing which gives the Old Testament eternal truth and inspiration. In its total effect the Old Testament is a record of God's progressive revelation of himself to man. Steadily from Genesis to Micah the conception of God's nature grows clearer, and finer.
2nd group: Poetry Books (from Job to Song of Solomon) also raise banner bearing their name and say:
The Bible is not alone a book but a divine library; the product not of one mind and one age but of many minds and many ages. It is the literary record of the Hebrews and gives to the world eternal truth expressed in unforgettable beauty. Clear thought, simple words, genuine emotion, these are the gold of literature. Peace be unto you and your household. May faith and love and charity abound and good works endure forever. We welcome you "Back to the Scriptures."
3rd group. Books of Prophecy. (Isaiah to Malachi.) Carry Banner with their group name on.
Books: Greece honored poets, philosophers, sculptors, orators. Rome honored emperors, military leaders and poets but Israel revered most her prophets, mouthpieces of God, they explained and justified God to His people. The Old Testament ends with a people. Who have learned humility through suffering and righteousness through adversity and with prophets who utter the will of God in more and more exalted language. As Micah who reached the grandest elevation says. "He hath shown thee O man what is good and what doth the Lord require of thee but to walk justly and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God." "I am God (sayeth the Lord) and there is none else. Be ye holy for I am holy. Behold I set before you life and death. Therefore choose life." Hail to thy faith in "Back to the Scriptures."
A bright light appears and in it a personage representing Christ standing a little above and in front of the Books. The Books turn shading their eyes and look to see from whence comes the light and personage. In reverence and awe they bow their heads and drop to one knee. They extend lighted candles reverently. Christ with a pleased countenance says, "I am the Life and the Way."
(Suitable colored lights all through the pageant add beauty and color to it.)
In the groups the candles are held together symbolic of increased strength in union.
Curtain soon after Christ ceases speaking and with colored light representing night. Family are still sleeping.
"Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be lifted up ye everlasting doors. "And the King of Glory shall come in. "Who is this King of Glory? "The Lord of Hosts, he is the King of Glory."
Trails of Smoke By Eva Willes Wangsgard
THE trickster, Ulysses, is back among us. The wooden horse, tobacco, has been drawn into each town and hamlet to leave its trails of smoke. The one at Troy had but one deceiver left behind to tell his crafty tales while the modern ones have all the facilities of our age, the radio, the newspaper, magazines, and the billboard with all their counterparts. Ours, like the one of old, entered our gates in wartime. It was natural in those fevered days to give the boys, who were defending democracy for us, everything we could to make their lives happier and pleasanter. But there were present among us this trickster and his helpers. They saw a rich harvest in store and proceeded with the cleverest line of advertising that ever tricked an unsuspecting public. The gay-nineties type of buxom beauty of questionable repute left the tobacco program to be replaced by the trimmest, and most carefully dressed set of respectable looking young ladies that any woman's heart ever envied. With the guilelessness of the Trojans, many of our young innocents linked that state of perfection with the smoking habit and tried to attain it. For a short time a certain slogan, capitalizing on the fad for slenderness, tried to tell the not-so-slender ones that cigarettes were preferable to candy. There they met the determined opposition of other powerful interests and that slogan disappeared from our commercial art work.
OTHER slogans were substituted and they grew in numbers. It is in the interpretation of those slogans that I fail to understand the gullibility of the public. Recently, the proprietor of a store let me examine his stock of tobacco, all the popular brands. Not one of those slogans appears on a package. Why? Because we have a Pure Food and Drugs Act which requires that only the truth concerning a product under their jurisdiction may appear on a container. There is no such law governing the statements by radio, in newspapers, magazines, on billboards, etc. The extravagance of the claims used in those media are governed only by the conscience of the advertiser.
THEN again, the slogans themselves offer the greatest argument against the use of tobacco that I have ever read. Is it not self-evident that, if one company makes the claims "They satisfy" that none of them satisfy, but the smoker is constantly harassed by an unsatisfied feeling, which gives the advertiser a definite point to which he can appeal? The statement itself is ridiculous. If that brand really satisfied the smoker, one package is all he would ever buy since no one carries a pleasure willingly beyond the point of satiation, or, if he does, it is no longer a pleasure. If one is "less acid," is that not an open indictment against the acidity of all cigarettes? Is it not ridiculous to advertise that. Such should be smoked "for digestion's sake" because of their "alkalinity?" If another is "kind to your throat" is that not proof positive that as a rule cigarettes are throat irritants? If one brand "never TRAILS OF SMOKE lets you down" is that not advertising the fact that most cigarettes give the user a fagged-out feeling? If the slogan is true, why "get a lift" from another. If one kind doesn't "get your wind," then does it not logically follow that all of them do? One could go on like this indefinitely. The point is that the tobacco companies themselves are pointing out the evils of the tobacco habit so widely and in letters so large that all who run may read. "THERE are three other points which I should like to make. The first is the matter of convenience. On the surface the wasted time seems like a small matter, but to me it is of great moment. Any person, who from long patience, sacrifice, and perseverence has finally acquired the key to the fuller life, knows that the only real happiness comes from accomplishment. There is no other thrill to equal the one that follows an accomplishment of worth. Those ancient peoples whom we sometimes pity had acquired a knowledge of human _ psychology that is scarcely out-done today. They said, "Labor is its own reward." It matters little what one's talents are so long as he develops them to the fullest measure of his ability in his working time here. The villain, tobacco, enters from the left wing. Tobacco cuts down the efficiency by its ceaseless grind on the nerves. Think of the interruptions and the consequent waste of time because the job has to wait for tobacco nerves to be soothed by another cigarette. When I was a child, I had an uncle who was a chain, roll-yourown cigarette smoker. We children used to ask, "Ugh! Why do you smoke, Uncle Al?" He always answered, "Why not? A chimney smokes" and his great There's where. 629 laugh would roll across the room. It was his son who told me that the chief reason why none of his seven sons took up with the cigarette habit was because every time there was a meticulous or heavy job to do on the farm such as the shifting of the rack for the beet box on the running gears of the wagon they had to stop, often in mid air and lower it again, while their father rolled, lit, and puffed at a cigarette. WHEN there is the matter of cleanliness. Is it not inconsistent to patronize so religiously the several well-known advertised products that promise wonderful results from keeping down all bodily odors and at the same time succumbing to this group which adds more foul odors than any natural bodily function any ordinary person might neglect? I insist that anything that smells like that is not clean. Anyone who has spent five minutes confined in a closed telephone booth knows what I mean. Often the stench in an office is so great that one not used to it might insist, as I did one afternoon to the embarrassment of an entire office force, since the boss was the offender, that there was a mouse, caught behind something, which was in very great need of interment. Of course, it is claimed that these odors and the stains can be kept down, but how few of the users do keep them down. HERE remains the matter of economy. Victor Hugo in his famed description of the poverty-stricken people of Paris said, "In the cupboards there may be no rice, but always there is tea and tobacco." In the last decade when just to feed our poor has been an insuperable problem think of the unfairness of expecting hard-working, self-denying people to supply tobacco, too. 630 Think how our schools have been handicapped for lack of funds and then imagine the beautiful buildings that could be built and the equipment that could be bought for the money spent in advertising these products alone. What right have we to consider ourselves civilized while we allow this leeching weed to flourish while we are unable to do justice to our children? Even in the homes where the fear of starvation has never stalked, think of the numerous little luxuries that the mother and children are denied and yet there is money for tobacco. How many mothers have longed for a few "white hyacinths to feed the soul" of the home and had to watch RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE them disappear in trails of thin, blue smoke. ET us return again to the simile of burning Troy and say that our unplanned and unbuilded churches, schools, libraries, and homes are only millions of plumes of blue smoke. One writer said of the steam engine age, "Many smokes still rise over the prairies but now they are wide and black where once they were thin and blue." Let me remind you how the thin blue trails of smoke have spread far beyond the prairies and are more numerous and much more treacherous than those that menaced the pioneer camps not so long ago. Magazine, page 455. GREETING CARDS ARE you working to win one of the prizes offered by the Relief Society for greeting cards? See offer in July, 1936 Sig A MAGIC WAY By Ella J. Coulam Some people have a magic way Of helping people out of trouble; They seem to know the time and place To prick the sorrow bubble; They have a tactful way of giving A helping hand for joyous living. Some people have a magic way Of turning chaos into peace, A swift transforming touch that soothes And makes all discord cease; They have a happy way of giving A peaceful, tranquil glow to living. New Patterns in Sex Teaching By Frances Bruce Strain (A Book Review) By Virginia Budd Jacobsen ARENTS of today are faced with the serious problem of training children in the matters of sex. Whether we like it or not, the problem is ours, and we must face it. If we do not instruct them in these matters very early, they are sure to get the facts from their playmates or older children in an unwholesome manner. Even at the age of four, five and six, questions related to sex come into the minds of these youngsters of ours and it is our task and privilege to answer them honestly and frankly. We must be ready to answer their first questions when they arise. But we are handicapped, generally, with a lack of scientific knowledge, presence of mind, and courage to answer truthfully and honestly as we should. To aid in answering these questions, "every family should have one strong-backed book on the subject of sex training of children—not a leaflet, not a pamphlet, but a dignified volume that can be a lantern in the hand to every intelligent and progressive parent. It should be a part of the family child-guidance bookshelf." Such a book is New Patterns in Sex Training by Frances Bruce Strain. Mrs. Strain, besides being a splendid mother, is widely known as an educator, lecturer, and author. She is a graduate of the University of Towa, later she became Acting Psychologist of the Children's Clinic of the Colorado Psychopathic Hospital at Denver. From this position she went to the University of Minnesota, where she carried on a long research on the problems and methods of sex training and education. At present, Mrs. Strain is Associate Educational Director of the Cincinnati Social Hygiene Society, lecturing yearly on sex education to thousands of parents and acting as consultant on individual problems. "New Patterns in Sex Teaching is offered as a practical guide over the somewhat unfamiliar and often hilly country of sex life of children from infancy to adolescence. Its purpose is to take away that feeling of insecurity which most parents suffer in the face of hazards of neighborhood play, questionable companions, street talk, sex activities, occasional immoralities—experiences which sooner or later, directly or indirectly, come into the horizon of most children. It includes ways of meeting these situations, ways of interpreting them, ways of supplanting them, in order that undesirable results may be lessened and parental peace of mind be restored. "It includes answers to hundreds of the most usual questions in relation to pregnancy, birth, fertilization, mating, which children ask in the early years..... The answers are adaptable to the varying ages of children and usable by adults who have little familiarity with biological facts and terms." How many of us know how to meet these situations? More than that, how many of us know how to meet them in such a way that no injury shall be done to the child nature? 632 "Modern methods of child guidance and mental hygiene point out the difference between a bad habit corrected! And a habit corrected badly.... Punishment can leave an injury that is greater than the thing which caused the punishment.... More than any other part of our natures, our sex natures have been injured—often irreparably injured— by wrong methods of training. Nobody was to blame. Until recently, nobody knew there was such a nature in childhood to save from injury. That is one of the things we have come to know. "Most mothers of today have accepted sex education whole-heartedly because back in their minds is the memory of many futile gropings for a few simple facts that were withheld from them." Mrs. Strain has treated almost every phase of the sex problem as it is related to youth, in this delightful book. She has written it in response to a pressing and repeated. Demand from parents for a permanent guide in handling this very important problem. Perhaps a brief outline of the chapter headings will best answer the question "Just what is in the book?" I. Introduction. II. The Love Impulse. III. Making the Right Start. IV. Learning Social Standards. V. Playground Problems. VI. First Questions of Young Children. A Few Rules of the Game. VIII. The Questionless Child. IX. The Rough and Tumble Age. X. Preparation for Maturity. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE There are four pages of questions which children ask concerning the sex problem, with the page given whereon the proper answer is given. For example: Where do babies come from?— Page 95. Where did you get me, Mother — Page 94, How big is a baby when its starts to grow?—Page 153. How does the baby get out?— Page 98. How can the opening be made big enough?—Page 99. Why must there always be a father?—Page 152. What is menstruation?—Page 192. Why are girls different from boys?'—Page 157. These few questions give a fair idea of the breadth of the book. It is truly a valuable handbook. It is frank. It is sincere. It is honest in dealing with the most difficult phase of life to teach to children. The answers to the questions are simple and direct, and given in such a manner as to eliminate any embarrassment for parent or child. "This book is not a scientific treatise. We are not attempting to decide fine or final points or sexual psychology. Yet it is far from being an arm-chair volume. Rather, it is a human record, written from the experience of years of association with the mothers of young children." Quotations from the book by permission from the publishers, D. Appleton-Century Company. No DAME NATURE'S WAY By Matilda A. Christiansen I awoke one October morning And a wonderful scene met my view, Queen Autumn had painted a garden Of glowing harmonious hue; Her easel was Old Timpanogos That held with his towering height The canvas spread on the mountain O'erflooded with rising sun light. For brushes she had used the red maple, Eclipsing the poppy's bright beam. And with white stemmed quivering aspen Had spread yellow and golden sun sheen. Next morning I looked on the mountain, Queen Autumn the long night had wrought On the rounded curve of Old Baldy Another fair garden plot. She had taken her brushes of scarlet And with pigments of russet and brown, With designs and splashes of color Had painted for him a new crown More dashing than summer time's splendor, More perfect in color and line, And had bordered the rim of his garment With the mystic dark green of the pine. I looked on the mountains one morning, *Twas a November's cold dawn; Queen Autumn's fair garden had vanished, Queen Autumn's bright colors were gone. For King Winter had come in the dawning And where his icy tipped sceptre held sway, The scarlets had turned to dull olive The yellows and russets to grey. Timpanogos loomed drab 'gainst the sky-line, Dejected, Mahogany looked down; Bereft of his bright Autumn colors, Bald Mountain stood somber and brown. When Dame Nature had brought chill December And the mornings were crispy and cold, I looked again on my mountains, Transfigured they stood, for behold! King Winter, surveying the hill tops, Ashamed of the ruin he'd wrought All night at shaping a mantle Of fleecy white snow-flakes had wrought, A mantle be-sprinkled with diamonds, Next morning shown on the height, And the mountains decked out in new glory Stood stalwart, majestic and white. The Gift of the Storm (A True Story) By Ellen G. Rees HANNAH stood in the doorway watching him. He was driving away, leaving her alone! How did he dare go now? How could she bear it? She raised her eyes to Heaven beseechingly, "Oh, God," she prayed, "help me, I am so afraid. Give me courage!" This was in early days in Arizona, and the frail, girlish woman was watching from the doorway of a small, lonely, ranch-house. Her eyes looked unseeingly over the desert. There was so little to see and less to hear—some corrals and ill-shaped fences made of cedar post and barbed wire, straggling bits of grease wood, then endless miles until the sky and land seemed to meet. Not a sound but the rising Fall wind, that most lonely of winds, not even falling leaves to rustle because there wasn't even a tree there. Sinking to the step in a heap she thought of seven years ago when she had married Harvey and come to live here where her ranch life began. She wasn't quite sixteen then. She hadn't guessed how serious and different everything would be. Her babies had come so fast, one, two, three, one right after the other. One of them, honest-faced little John, she had lost with croup so suddenly that she wasn't over the shock of it yet. Then in July, during that severe hot spell, four-year-old Carl, had those constant grinding pains in his stomach which, try as she would, she could not relieve. The muddy drinking water from the river, the only water available, must have caused it. She had heard of the danger of impure water so she had boiled it and then let it stand until it settled clear before using, but it was warm and had a flat taste which did not satisfy his fever-parched lips that begged and begged for just one cool drink. He became so sick that they thought best to take him to the nearest doctor, that being quicker than to send for the doctor. They reached the place only to find him miles away on another call. But here was a spring and crystal, cool water. They handed him a drink just as the substitute doctor saw and ordered, "Oh, don't give him that! Cold water will kill him." All his strength went with this disappointment. He turned his face to the wall and the end soon came. This ever haunted her,—his intense suffering, his pleadings, and the memory that she could not grant his one and only plea. Since these experiences with death such a helpless feeling possessed her, making her afraid, and birth being so akin to death, she was appalled at the future, because she was about to have another baby. As the time drew nearer, her terror increased. How could she go through this ordeal with only her husband and the nearest woman, as she had done three times before. She would try to forget her dumb terror if she could have a doctor, but this seemed impossible. In the first place, her, husband would think her unduly anxious, and that it was not necessary, and then the money to pay him,. Where would they get that? Their small crop had failed because THE GIFT OF THE STORM the dam holding the water necessary for irrigation had been washed away. Rains had been even less than the usual scanty amount, so the cattle were thin. Many had gone 'loco' and being poor, soon died. The cattle were their livelihood, so when there were but few left to sell and weighing light, they had brought a low price. If only she had some money to use just as she wished, how glad she would be, but that was hopeless. She never had and she never would _ ask for money, she was too proud. Her husband was proud too; he would hesitate to send for the physician unless there were cash on hand to pay him. HARVEY had been left fatherless in early boyhood and so had been forced into harsh and premature manhood. Play and gentleness had been missing in his youth, so he grew into a cold, hard, undemonstrative man, old beyond his years. To be a 'real' cowboy, as he was, one had to lose all sense of fear, and he had learned this lesson well. He wasn't afraid of anything. Loneliness too, must be conquered, so he could not sense the ever growing loneliness that gnawed and almost overwhelmed her. This desert life, too, made people hard. It was so common to see pain and suffering, to see men, beasts and plants seeking out a bare existence. To see one and all give up their heart's desires and endure any sacrifice without a murmur was a daily sight. So Hannah had hidden her dread and fear of the future from her husband, but now he was gone and she had not even his help, she was more frightened than ever. Hopelessly huddled there on the doorstep heeding not, nor sensing the 635 passing of time, she was roused by her only child who came running and calling, '"Mother, see those tumble weeds, they go rolling and rolling; they look like wheels, and the wind blowed all my stick horses down, and I lost my hat too." "Yes, dear,' she said as she looked around, "the cattle are starting out earlier than usual. There must be a storm coming; we'd better get busy. Can you get the buckets? We will get a 'turn' of water first." On their way to the river she watched the cattle which had been down earlier to drink and take their noon-day rest. They were up now and walking determinedly away toward the cedars. "Strange how they can always tell when there is a storm coming," she mused aloud. "They may go too far and then Daddy will have to go after them when he gets back," she told the boy. This was his work, keeping these wild, un-penned cattle from roaming to nearby herds; branding and ear-marking them, constantly moving them to new grass and water as the old dried out; shipping and selling steers in the fall; 'pulling the log' when they stuck in the quicksand (which was constantly) "breaking-in' the 'broncos' or wild horses for their work; this with occasional trips to town for supplies left him little time and thought for anything else. But he had been worrying lately. Taxes would soon be due, and he needed the money. That morning he very suddenly told her of his selfmade plans. "I'm going to town today," he said. "It's court week, county court, and lots of men will be in town. The one hotel there won't hold them all. Ln mother's large house, and with her help, we can fix beds and cook for them and make some cash for taxes. The cattle will be all right for a few days, 636 and I may send a man down to look after them." She was so surprised and shocked that no words came. Of course she wanted him to go and get money, but how could she stay alone? What if something should happen and she alone there? If she could then have spoken her fears, all might have been different, but something held her dumb, and so he had driven away, little dreaming of her terror. As the mother filled the buckets she said, "Yes, the river is rising,. They have had rain above here." Oh, that river! A raging, seething, foaming, torrent today, a tiny, silver thread tomorrow, twisting and winding along in its bed of sand, bringing life and hope or death and destruction as it wended its way onward. The Little Colorado River, an oasis in the desert, a refuge for the lonely, weary traveler, a mecca for man and beast! Treacherous because bedded in many places with quicksand, tired, thirsty man and beast sought to quench his thirst only to be caught in that same quicksand and sucked down until helpless, starved, and exhausted, life slowly ebbed away. Yet how important that river, because it was the only source of water for miles and miles. Dams and small reservoirs built along its course were washed out repeatedly by its rampageous floods bringing drought, loss of crops, wreckage of tiny farms and settlements huddled timidly on its all but sterile banks. Most settlers had not gone there of their own accord; they had been called there. After the water, she carried in wood, fed chickens, changed some calves to a different pasture, watered horses, milked the two cows and fed calves. By this time the rain was pouring down. Then inside as she cared for the boy, she listened as it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE steadily increased. It seemed the very Heavens were opened. By bed-time it had grown until it terrified her. Thoughts of a flood now cate vividly. She had seen some and knew how they swept away everything in their path. It didn't seem safe to stay there, yet she thought with terror of getting a horse, preparing the sleeping child and trying to ride to higher ground. But she must—as she hastily gathered food and coats, the kerosene lamp flickered and sputtered and seemed about to go out and leave her in total darkness. She clenched her hands in utter fear and despair. What should she do? WHEN some sound _ distinct through the storm halted her. Were her senses betraying her? Certainly she could hear wheels and horses splashing above the roar of it all. Someone was coming, who could it be, had her husband come back to help her? The sounds drew nearer and stopped. She opened the door just in time to hear a strange voice shout, "Hello, hello, say can you put us up for the night?" She dimly perceived two '"buckboards' filled with men be-spatted, be-draggled, dripping with mud and water. "Say, where's the man of the house? There's a bridge washed out back there, so we couldn't get through that way, and we had to come on this road. The mud's been awful and now our teams are 'giveout.' The storm's about over, but we want to get in and get dried out. Can we stay here tonight?' There was one thing Arizona was rich in, and that was hospitality. "My husband is away but you are welcome to stay," she told them bewildered and wondering how that crowd could be made comfortable THE GIFT OF THE STORM in her small home, but they gladly filed in. SOON after, the rain and wind began to quiet down—the storm had spent itself. Meanwhile, the drivers had cared for their horses and a big ruddy-faced man further explained, 'Missus, we are lawyers, a judge and jurymen from Prescott going up here to the county-seat to hold court. Now if we can just light up a fire in this fireplace we'll be mighty happy to get dry." The room did afford a fine fireplace. It was cheaper to build one than to buy a stove, and logs were easier to cut for it. Wood was piled high and soon a blazing fire lighted the tanned, strong faces gathered in the firelight. Their dripping Stetsons were hung on nails, wet coats were draped on the backs of chairs and the room soon filled with steam from their wet clothes. Their care-free laughter and joking remarks made her forget her fears and filled her heart with something like comfort. She didn't ask if they were hungry, but went into the kitchen thankful for the loaves of fresh bread she had baked that day, for fresh churned butter and pans of milk with thick, tempting cream. From another shelf she brought some of her precious fruit. "How fine that beef-steak Harvey left will be for those hungry men," she half whispered. As the grease began to spatter, she heard near by a man's voice, "Say, lady, let me help you, I'm used to riding the 'chuck wagon'." With his help the meal was soon ready. As the men ate, their leader voiced appreciation, "I'll say this is fit for a king, we were almost starved!" Their hunger satisfied and comfortably warm, their coats rolled up for pillows, they soon sprawled over the one bed and the warm floor sound asleep, and Hannah, in the kitchen on a cot, had forgotten the storm, and all her fears, and she slept also.
SHUFFLING of spurs and kicking on of boots awakened her at the first signs of dawn. The storm was over, the sky clear. The men would be half-way to town by sunup, no need to ask them to stay for breakfast; they would want to be up and away now. She dressed and came into the room just in time to see them ready to leave, and wishing to show their appreciation, they reached into their pockets and with lavish, reckless generosity showered down on the table money—dollars, more dollars, and even five-dollar gold pieces. She stood in amazement, then with jolly thanks, a handshake or two, they trouped out. She hadn't thought of their money—but here it was, hers now, all hers! Her hands closed over it eagerly. She bowed her head in thankfulness and peace. Now money for the doctor was sure!
HARVEST DAYS By Lucy G. Bloomfield
Time was, when I thought my cup of joy, Was full and running o'er. But now to my amazement, I find it can hold still more.
When my babies were laughing gleefully 'Cause daddy would soon be home, And supper was cooked and ready, With just my hair to comb;
I used to say as I summed things up, That life could yield no more, There was joy and health, babies and home And daddy at the door.
But I've found that an All Wise Father, When He planned out our life below, Put no limit to the joys of man, No bliss that they could not know.
Now our children are grown and flown away, They have builded nests of their own. But the harvest time of our life is here, When they all come trooping home.
Dear God! My happiness multiplies, Just see those three little boys, Each wants to be first for his grandma's kiss, Ah there's few things to equal such joys.
We spread a feast with what they've brought, For it's grandpa's birthday you see. Supreme is the joy within the cup, The late years have brought to me.
THE MAGAZINE By Edna J. Gardiner
"If I had two loaves of bread, I would sell one and buy white hyacinths to feed my soul."
The Relief Society, the mother organization of our Church, ever alert to the needs of its members, has provided for us the Relief Society Magazine. Containing the best in literature, as also the lessons for class-work, this magazine does, in very deed, proffer food for the soul in spiritual uplift and guidance. Information on home and civic problems is offered through articles contributed by teachers and professionally trained specialists in particular lines. Leaders in church and nation present here The Relief Society Magazine is truly a hand-book for the training of better mothers. Here they may find peace in time of sorrow; inspiration and recreation. The cost of the Magazine is so little as to be within the reach of all. May we, as Relief Society members express our appreciation by our enrollment on the subscription lists. By so doing, we are assured first aid in every problem. Articles for our advancement and enlightenment.
A Power Irresistible By Eleanor Baird
In olden times woman's place was solely in the home, but many changes have taken place within the last fifty years. For many centuries women have been spoken of as the power behind the throne, but already she has stepped out from behind it, and many who seem competent to look into the future, see her sitting upon the throne itself, tomorrow.
The reason that women have not taken their place side by side with the other sex in the past, has been because of their lack of opportunity but that excuse will not do now. Never has there been a time in the history of the world when women have had the opportunity that they have today. Their freedom is greater, their education is better and their thought is broader. They no longer have to be just interested spectators; they have the ability, and they should have the will to accomplish great things.
Women have a different viewpoint on life and its fundamental principles than men. Save in war, busy men rarely organize except for fraternal purposes. Women, however, will always unite in pursuit of some common ideal. They are always struggling to raise standards, especially those standards that influence home life. Today they work side by side with men in every field of industry and government, but there are still too few of them. There are so many things that need improvement, so many things that are still undone, just waiting for women to come forward and help. Child welfare, cleaning up of politics and motion pictures, civic and educational improvements, and pure food regulations; these are all fields in which women can take an active part.
The crime problem is another opportunity. It is interesting to know what was done along this line in Chicago alone. Six brave and clever women organized what was known as the "Secret Six," which threw the whole underworld into confusion. It is said that hundreds of gangsters left that city because of them.
Today the politics of most women is simply that of their husbands or nearest male relative. If they have neither, they have no politics. This is really a disgrace to the sex. With the education offered women today, there is absolutely no excuse for their lack of interest in the policies of the nation. This is one thing women should attend to. Let it not be said that they are not interested or cannot be bothered with our nation's government.
Woman is the greatest latent power in the world today. A power that is slowly but steadily growing. With competent leadership it will be a power irresistible for the good of mankind and for peace in the whole world.
A good leader is one who recognizes public good above personal interest; she must have expert knowledge; she must be above average in spiritual, mental, and moral qualities; she must inspire her followers as well as lead them. She must have courage, unselfishness, enthusiasm, and tact. All these things she can attain if she only has the desire and will-power.
Women should listen, study, and take part in the things which will give an understanding in those matters which are of vital interest to the country and the world today. Women must not sit helpless when great problems of crime, graft, and war threaten to destroy their homes, life and liberty. It is woman's duty to make the best use of the Relief Society lessons, public lectures, the radio, and good books, that they may have a quieting, steadying effect on the future.
I SHALL NOT CARE By Elsie E. Barrett
It will not matter when I pass away About the flowers; I shall not even care if none are there; My soul will be elsewhere and not aware Of earthly hours
When words of cheer were few, when days were grey With doubt and fear; When burdens were too heavy borne alone, And adverse winds seemed always round me blown From year to year.
I needed flowers of Friendship then, that would Have helped me climb The rocky path to where with wider range My thoughts might leave the furrowed course and change To those sublime.
I climbed the stony way the best I could Alone with prayer; Perhaps that road was best to gain reward That yet may come to me; but I'd despair.
So let us give to one in life who needs Sweet blooms of hope; Not waiting till she leaves this earth's abode, But give an hour of time to ease her load, And help her cope
With hardships by our timely kindly deeds. It will not matter when I pass away About the flowers; I shall not even care if none are there.
Notes From The Field Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
Oneida Stake. DURING the latter part of the season the Preston Fourth Ward Relief Society of the Oneida Stake held a party in honor of the retiring officers who had recently been released. A special invitation was given to all former Presidents of Relief Society since the organization of the Ward—ten were present, and each received a beautiful corsage. A very fine program was rendered, and this included the reading of a paper telling the outstanding characteristics of each of the officers. This was followed by a delicious luncheon.
The picture below is a photograph of those who have held office in this Ward since its organization in 1902, and every president is alive and active in Relief Society work.
Parowan Stake. A FEATURE of the Mothers' Day celebration in Parowan Stake took the nature of a birthday party for all members of the organization in each Ward. A delightful program was furnished, consisting of music, poetry, etc. This was followed by dainty refreshments. Very careful preparation was made for the event, and loving wishes were exchanged by the members. In this Stake many gardens have been planted. Vegetables for canning have been grown, and there is beauty everywhere through the flowers which have been abundantly cultivated. This is one of the Stakes expressing keen appreciation for the lessons during the year, and on the whole a very successful season was completed.
OFFICERS IN ONEIDA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
SPRINGDALE RELIEF SOCIETY Zion Park Stake. AN evidence of the interest which the movement inaugurated this year to bring the mothers and daughters closer together, was given in the very fine celebration held in the Springdale Ward of the Zion Park Stake. The two pictures show the mothers of the organization and the daughters who participated. The daughters gave the entire program under the direction of the literary teacher. It was the beginning of a very fine celebration of this worthy movement in honor of former President Clarissa S. Williams.
Rexburg Stake. THE Stake Chorister of Rexburg Stake sends the following: "One of the most interesting and unique entertainments ever presented in Rexburg was the Festival of Music, Poetic Literature and Art,
DAUGHTERS OF SPRINGDALE WARD, ZION PARK STAKE
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
featuring local women composers, writers and artists. This was sponsored by the Music Department of the Rexburg Stake Relief Society and was held in the Rexburg Fourth Ward Chapel, Tuesday, June 23, 1936. Lovely poems, short stories and musical numbers delighted an audience of two hundred and fifty women. Two hundred and twenty-five pictures were on display and included oil paintings, water colors, plaques and tinted photography. Five young ladies served light refreshments at the punch table. So many expressions of delight and appreciation were given that we have decided to make this an annual affair and thereby encourage women and girls to express themselves in the creative fields of music, literature and art."
MRS. MARY A. HOLDEN AND HER SIX DAUGHTERS
North Idaho Falls Stake. FROM one of our new Stakes comes the report of a very delightful observance of the first Daughters' Day in the Relief Society. The picture is of Mrs. Mary A. Holden and her six daughters. Sister Holden has been an active member of the First Ward Relief Society since its organization. She has been a Visiting Teacher with a record of 100%, and has also been treasurer, Stake Chorister and Ward Chorister. Her daughters are following in their mother's footsteps, and are a fine example of the spirit of the day which it was intended to honor.
South Davis Stake IN the Magazine Drive, as in other phases of Relief Society work, this enterprising Stake has met with signal success. In the Bountiful Second Ward a particularly effective plan was devised. It was decided that some kind of a container should be left with the sisters; the most available, naturally, was the envelope, as this could be carried in the purse. Soon after the decision to use this, a large quilting and sewing day, where approximately eighty sisters were assembled, was held. The Magazine Agent noted among those present a number who were not enrolled in the Relief Society. She made it a point to personally contact each sister present and present her with one of the envelopes. The fine points of the Magazine were suggested. Some of the sisters present had paid some months in advance, but they were anxious to have the envelope so that when they had a few spare cents they could put them in and be ready when their subscription was required. Many of the sisters who had known very little of Relief Society work or the Magazine caught the enthusiasm of the others, and it was a very successful occasion. The effect of it was not lost with the day, but continues. The Agent reports that each week she receives some of the envelopes, and she feels quite sure that a very successful drive will be conducted this year.
Please put pennies in envelope for Relief Society Magazine (See Report Above)
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
THE GENERAL BOARD LOUISE YATES ROBISON: President AMY BROWN LYMAN: First Counselor KATE M. BARKER: Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B. Knight Lalene H. Hart Lotta Paul Baxter Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Elise B. Alder Inez K. Allen Ida P. Beal
Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Marcia K. Howells Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Mary Connelly Kimball Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman
VOL. XXIII OCTOBER, 1936 No. 10
Editorials Our Meetings Resume
AFTER a long vacation we again take up our courses of study, which we are sure will be greatly enjoyed by our members. The Theological Lessons, the Teacher's Topics and the Project all are on the New Testament. The unity of these three lines of work will make for greater concentration and scholarship.
While we believe many of our organizations will devote most of their time on Work and Business Day to sewing for the needy and in carrying out plans made by their own Stake supervisors, there will be printed in the Magazine for those who desire such an outline some suggestive helps for Work and Business day.
The Literary lessons will move more slowly than heretofore, as we are taking but three biographies, devoting three lessons to each. At the close of the season we should be well acquainted with Alice Freeman Palmer, Abraham Lincoln as portrayed by Carl Sandburg, and Julia Ward Howe.
The Social Service Lessons should make us socially minded and rouse our interest in civic affairs. While the Child Guidance lessons are primarily for mission use, we hope that all our officers and members will read them carefully, as they are most valuable.
DURING the last two or three years our music has forged forward, and the establishment of Singing Mothers Choruses in most of our organizations has been a delightful feature of our work. Their beautiful singing has been recognized outside of the organization, and they have given service in conferences and many other gatherings.
The summer has been busily spent in sewing, putting up fruit and vegetables and preparing supplies for the winter's needs. This service will not only greatly bless those in need, but those who have worked, as it is not enough that kindly emotions be aroused, but they should always have an outlet. Our horizon has been widened. We no longer think in terms of wards or stakes, but of the needs of the entire Church.
Again the Relief Society women have demonstrated their willingness to serve and their ability to answer each call made upon them by those having the authority so to do. We hope this year that the lessons will be studied more widely than ever before, and that there will be more general participation in the class work. We grow not by having things poured into us but by studying and thinking ourselves.
During our past season our membership increased, our Magazine subscriptions went beyond our fondest anticipations, and every department of our work showed marked progress. This year we should do better than ever before. Each stake and ward should look over its past record, to ascertain what part of the work needs added attention in order to build up its fortifications so as to make what was heretofore weak, strong.
We extend love and best wishes to our officers and members. May the results of this season's work be greater than their fondest dreams can picture.
Columbus
"If Christopher Columbus is the man who, according to the common historical view, shut the door upon the Middle Ages and inaugurated a new world and a new age, the moment when those three paltry vessels left that Spanish harbor is one of the most epoch-making in the history of humanity."
"It is extraordinarily striking to observe, from the detached point of view which the long-completed cycle of events enables us to take, how a great man's star draws him, as though by a never-failing magnetic force, to his appointed end: whatever he does or whatever he fails to do, every error, every neglect, every apparent defeat even, does actually and inevitably bring him nearer to the hour of fulfilment."
PEOPLE who ardently work letting nothing daunt them often attain greater achievements than their fondest dreams presage. This was true of Columbus. As one inspired he struggled on through every discouragement, refusing to be dissuaded when his emprise was called foolish, when he was mocked at, laughed at, scorned. Reduced to beggary he was so conscious of his destiny that he pressed on. His hair turned gray, his face became lined, yet he did not lose hope. He suffered humiliation and bitterness, but with determined zeal he continued to seek means to attain his goal. When he was asked who he was, he replied, "I am called Christobal Colon. I am a sea captain from Genoa, and I must beg my bread because Kings will not accept the Empires that I offer them."
He worked tirelessly, yet for a long time there were no apparent fruits. Rejected again and again one wonders at his determination. When he obtained audience with the Queen, while she could not understand him, yet she could not resist the impression he made upon her. The fierce flame that burned in his heart moved her. Thoughtful men considered Columbus' idea ridiculous, for, said they, profound philosophers had made the conformation of the world the subject of their inquiries, and skillful seamen had for thousands of years produced trustworthy evidence on the matter. It was something more than presumption for a common man to maintain that so great a discovery as he promised had been reserved for him alone. The Queen's husband viewed the undertaking coldly and had a whole party on his side, yet the Queen seemingly could not turn away from Columbus' proposals. Finally he won. No wonder he asked, "Who can doubt but that the Holy Ghost inspired me?"
Three ships, the Santa Maria, Pinta, and Nina, set sail. Those who accompanied him were full of fear and horror. They felt there was no goal before them, that they had no destined end but the imagination of the Admiral. When their ships danced around, twisting "like vessels of clay on a maddening whirling potter's wheel, they felt as though they were bullets from a sling hurled across the roaring seas into the void."
FOR long weeks they sailed. Again and again Columbus was urged to turn back, but with iron-like determination he insisted that they sail on and on. The men complained of the length of the voyage, but the Admiral encouraged them by pointing out what they would get from the expedition. His determination to reach India remained unshakable. He realized that every day their position became more hazardous. Again and again they thought they saw mountains and cities in the distance, but these proved to be hallucinations. The ships were not built for so long a voyage and many wondered how they would manage the return journey. There was not a port where they could re-fit and get provisions. Their supplies were growing scanty. They threatened mutiny, but despair was as futile as revolt, since in the last resort all depended on him. They felt he possessed a magic that made him more powerful than any man they had ever seen.
FINALLY came the long looked for sight. On October 12, 1492, a white heap of sand was sighted and the shout of "land, land" enlivened the crew. Reverently Columbus knelt on the newly discovered country and offered praise to Almighty God. He had gained not the route to India that he sought, but a new world. Surely he was inspired. Shortly before his death he wrote to the Spanish sovereigns: "For my voyage to the Indies I had no help from reason, mathematics, or maps of the world— it was but a fulfilment of what had been foretold by the Prophet Isaiah. Before the end of the world all prophecies must come to fulfilment, the Gospel must be preached throughout the earth and the Holy City given back to the Church of Christ. God has chosen to work a mighty miracle through my discovery."
HUNDREDS of years before this with prophetic vision Nephi saw Columbus' mission, for he says: "And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles, who was separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters; and I beheld the Spirit of God, that it came down and wrought upon the man; and he went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land."
Yes, God has worked a mighty miracle. Through his discovery America has become a light enlightening the world; it has become a land of liberty, the home of opportunity, a refuge for the downtrodden, the place of gathering for modern-day Israel, a promised land held in reserve for the gathering of a people who would prepare the earth for Christ's Second Coming.
The Ada Mohn-Landis Contest
"THROUGH the generosity of Mrs. Ada Mohn-Landis, the Woman's Christian Temperance Union offers annual prizes for original manuscripts suitable to include in collections of recitations and declamations prepared for use in the Medal Contests sponsored by the organization. In the 1937 contest Declamations are desired. The general theme is Total Abstinence from Alcoholic Drinks an Asset to:
Business Efficiency. Health. Citizenship—Civic Welfare. Success in Sports and Athletics. Safety, in Traffic and Elsewhere. Social Life. Spiritual Life.
The announcements giving rules for the 1937 contest are ready. Copies may be secured by sending stamp with request to the National Woman's Temperance Union, 1730 Chicago Avenue, Evanston, Illinois.
George H. Dern
COME to the State over which he had ably presided as Governor for two terms and from which he had gone to serve in the President's Cabinet was brought the body of George H. Dern to rest near the bodies of his beloved parents and infant daughter. The services in the historic Tabernacle were most impressive. Never before had there been gathered there so many leading men of the nation, the state, the city, and various churches. His honesty, integrity, fidelity and kindliness were praised. His was a democratic spirit. He could mingle with and enjoy the companionship of the great and the lowly. He has left a record of integrity and devotion to duty that is inspiring. While he was Governor, some of Utah's finest social legislation was enacted. As Secretary of War, he earnestly studied the problems that came to his attention and was sincere and honest in the discharge of his duties. May his loved ones be blessed with peace and his children emulate the noble life of their father.
WESTERN SUNSET By Lydia Hall
The altar where I worship God Is a vermillion hill Where meadow larks in praise of Him The air with anthems fill.
The yuccas are tall candles white When in the golden west The sunset makes the desert land A shrine of loveliness.
Lesson Department (For First Week in December)
THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY
Lesson 3 A DIVINE CODE TO THE IDEAL LIFE (The Sermon on the Mount)
Helpful References (The Sermon is divided for convenience into four major divisions.)
Matthew 5:1-16; 5:17-20; 5:21; 7:12; 7:13-27. Luke 6:20-26; 6:27-42; 6:43-49. Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi 12:1-16; 3 Nephi 12:17-20; 3 Nephi 12:21; 14:12; 3 Nephi 14:13-27.
Jesus the Christ, Chapter 17. King, The Ethics of Jesus, Chapter 5 Farrar, The Life of Christ, Chapter 18.
1. Christ Emphasized Significant Principles.
In this lesson we shall deal with certain aspects of the Sermon on the Mount as a whole. So important did the Christ consider the content of the Sermon, that he delivered it also to the Nephites on His first appearance to them as a glorified, resurrected being. Most, if not all of the great truths, set forth in this, the greatest of all sermons, are to be found in world literature written long before the earthly advent of the Savior. Such we should expect on the assumption that the gospel was in the world before the coming of our Lord. The great principle of love and mercy was by no means a new teaching. The Old Testament, the Jewish Scripture, emphasizes the love of God and the duty of a man to love his neighbor. Where is to be found much finer teaching than that given in Micah 6:8? "He has told thee, O man, what is good; and what does Jehovah require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?" Or that expressed in the Book of Jonah, which has fitly been termed the "gospel" before the gospel? Was not practical religion aptly expressed by Isaiah 58:6, 7? "Is not this the fast that I have chosen? To loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the bands of violence, and to set at liberty the oppressed, and that ye break every yoke? Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and to bring the poor that are cast out to thy house? When thou seest the naked, that thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh?"
Not only these but other great teachers exalted high principles of living. Buddha extolled the principle of mercy, and Confucius taught the Golden Rule, albeit in a negative way. Despite all we have said, however, it must be confessed that the Savior in his Sermon carries the teachings of the good life to a height scarcely expressed elsewhere. This lies not so much in the fact that others have not said any of the great things he says, but in the fact that he seizes on those principles that are really and truly significant, sifts them out from the less significant ones, and consistently carries them through to their logical ends. President Henry Churchill King of Oberlin College quoted with approval the statement of Professor Votaw: "Jesus' originality—and the term is not misapplied—consisted in his divine ability to separate the true from the false, the permanent from the transient, the perfect from the imperfect; and then to carry forward the whole circle of ideas and practices to their ideal expression." Also quoted with approval are the words of the great German scholar, Wellhausen: "The originality of Jesus consists in this, that he had the feeling for what was true and eternal amid a chaotic mass of rubbish and that he enunciated it with the greatest emphasis."
2. The Savior Delivered the Sermon to the Nephites.
It is of significance that the Savior in his appearance to the Nephites gave the Sermon substantially as it is written in Matthew 5, 6, 7, rather than in the version of Luke. Most scholars recognize the report of Matthew to be of greater authenticity than Luke's. Latter-day Saints have good reason to believe that the Sermon was written down by some responsible person at approximately the time the Lord gave it. This must be so; otherwise one is at a loss to understand His strict injunction to the Nephites to keep careful records. (3 Nephi 23:7-14.) Modern revelation seems to imply that, contrary to widely accepted views of some scholars, records were kept in the earliest days of the Primitive Church. (See also Doctrine and Covenants 7; 63:20, 21. Compare Matthew 17:1-10; 93:6-18.)
3. The Ideal Life.
Needless to say, the Sermon on the Mount has been the subject of almost endless analysis and study. For our purposes here, we may more or less conveniently follow the outline of Professor Votaw, one of the greatest students of the subject. In Matthew 5:1-16 the ideal life is described. The characteristics of such a life are described in verses 1-12. Of the latter, 3-12 constitute what are known as the Beatitudes. Inasmuch as these form the basis of the lesson to follow we shall not discuss them here. Verses 13-16 sum up the mission of the ideal life. Those whose lives are fit become "the salt of the earth," "the light of the world." They are to let their "light shine before men" that God may be glorified thereby.
4. Relation of the Ideal Life to the Earlier Hebrew Ideal.
In the next major division of the Sermon, Matthew 5:17-20, the Savior points out the relation of the ideal life to the earlier Hebrew ideal expressed in the Mosaic law. "Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil." The older law had fulfilled its purpose. As the Lord explained to the Nephites, "the covenant which I have made with my people is not all fulfilled; but the law which was given unto Moses hath an end in me. Behold, I am the law, and the light." (3 Nephi 15:8, 9.)
5. Outworkings of the Ideal Life.
In Matthew 5:21; 7:12 we have a masterly description of the outworkings of the ideal life. First, in deeds and motives. (Matthew 5:21-48.) Not only should there be no slaying or adultery, but, what strikes at the root of these, no hatred or impurity of thought; oaths were to be replaced with simple truthfulness, and retaliation with service that outruns selfish demands. "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." Secondly, in real religious worship. (Matthew 6:1-18.) Worship to be acceptable in the eyes of God demands a humble and filial spirit. The inner aspects of it rather than the outer aspects as practiced by the Pharisees are emphasized. "Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them: otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven." Thirdly, in trust and self-devotion. (Matthew 6:19-34.) The real treasures of heaven are to be found in the single-hearted and trustful service of God. "But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness." Fourthly, in treatment of others. (Matthew 7:1-12.) Here the Savior points out the danger of unrighteous use of our critical faculties and by implication the sacredness of human personality. "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them."
6. The Duty of Living the Ideal Life.
The last major division of the Sermon, Matthew 7:13-27, deals with the duty of living the ideal life. The door to the Kingdom is narrow. "Enter ye in at the strait gate." The true and false subjects are readily contrasted. "By their fruits ye shall know them." In conclusion we may point out that the Savior "taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes." (Matthew 7:29.)
Questions
1. Were the principles enunciated by the Savior in the Sermon on the Mount new to the world? Collect and present proofs of your statements.
2. In what ways was the Lord a master teacher? How do you account for His ability?
3. Can you point to some elements original with the Savior in the Sermon on the Mount?
Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.)
1. Compare Luke's account of the Sermon on the Mount; (Luke 6:20-49) with that of Matthew. (Matthew 5, 6, 7.) Briefly report the differences. Can you satisfactorily account for them?
2. Make a careful comparison of the Sermon on the Mount as reported in Matthew 5, 6, 7 with the Sermon delivered by the Savior to the Nephites (3 Nephi 12, 13, 14.) Report briefly on the following points: (1) The differences in the two accounts; (2) The contributions of the Book of Mormon to an understanding of the Sermon as, e.g. The groups of people to whom certain parts of the Sermon applied. (3 Nephi 12:1-2, 14; 13:25; 14:1.)
3. How would you account for the fact that so much of the Sermon as reported in the Book of Mormon is word for word the same as that given in the Gospel of Matthew?
4. With the help of the Book of Mormon see if you can make a better and more logical outline of the Sermon than that used in the body of the lesson. Report your results to the class.
TEACHER'S TOPIC
TEACHER'S TOPIC FOR DECEMBER THE PARABLE OF THE PRODIGAL SON (Luke 15:11-24)
THE parable of the Prodigal Son was given in answer to the murmur of the scribes and Pharisees who said, "This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them."
"And he said, A certain man had two sons: "And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. "And not many days after, the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance in riotous living. "And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want. "And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. "And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave unto him. "And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough, and to spare, and I perish with hunger! "I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against Heaven, and before thee, "And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants. "And he arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and fell on his neck, and kissed him. "And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against Heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. "But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet: "And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; and let us eat, and be merry: "For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry."
The first instance in the parable is an assertion of self-will, when the son asks for that part of the inheritance which belongs to him. The father apparently without protest divided his substance and gave the son his rightful share. Not many days after he gathered his goods together and journeyed into a far country as a demonstration of his freedom to do as he chose. He indulged in spendthrift folly and soon became destitute. He became a slave to sin, demonstrating that "a man who does as he likes becomes a slave to his likes." But when he came to himself, he saw his mistakes and sorely repented. To return to his father broken and penitent was not easy. He said, "I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight." His confession and repentance was genuine and was accepted by the father.
This story portrays the love God has for his children and the forgiveness he is willing to extend to them. It emphasizes the intense love God has for the sinner and his eager desire to reclaim him. The folly of waywardness and the humiliation that results from sin are pictured. It proves the justice of giving the fallen a chance to rise and the value of true repentance. If an earthly father can be so forgiving, how much more forgiving is our Heavenly Father to those who seek forgiveness. It is said of this parable that it touches "the nerve of actual life and has caught vividly human history." Charles Dickens said: "It is the most touching passage in all literature."
May we emphasize in our study of this parable of the Prodigal Son the true value of genuine repentance and the love and compassion extended to the one who had sinned. If the father could accept his repentance and confession may we not view with a more forgiving attitude the mistakes of others? We desire to apply the teaching of the Parables to our own circumstances, to make applications of their teaching to our lives. Forgiveness, humility, repentance, performance of duty, charity for others, mistakes, power of prayer, stability and courage are daily problems with most of us. These lessons can be learned through prayer and search. "Search the Scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal life."
WORK AND BUSINESS
LESSON II. SUGGESTIONS FOR CHRISTMAS GIFTS
AT a recent visit to the home of the California Allied Arts at Palo Alto, the writer was charmed with the handicraft of the women. The quaint artistic buildings were brimming with beautiful things. Things of lasting artistic value which could be passed on from generation to generation as heirlooms. Wood carving was applied to many articles such as chairs, seats, chests of various sizes, book-ends, Candle sticks, and even the "guest book" had a carved wood cover. Wood carving is one of the old standard arts and has been practiced for ages. One room was devoted almost entirely to block printing. Very effective drapes, chair and cushion covers, bed spreads, and fabrics for other purposes were on display. There are great possibilities in block printing. It may be applied to collar and cuff sets, blouses, jackets, dresses, handkerchiefs, luncheon sets, table runners, etc.
A wall hanging of Batik attracted considerable attention. The beautiful effects obtained in this work are well worth the effort required. Another effective wall hanging was made with the crewel embroidery, and another one with wool couched on. These were in bold designs and bright colors.
Much weaving was done and the looms were made in the carpenter shop on the grounds. (The looms cost $80.00 complete.) Old furniture was mended in this shop ready for refinishing and decorating. Hooked rugs were all about. Some attractive chair sets were hooked with rather heavy cotton rags. They had tap strings to fasten them to the chairs and were especially suitable for the breakfast room. The rags were not cut as the yarn hooked rugs are. Natural color string rugs were soft looking and beautiful for bedrooms.
There were lamp shades of parchment and other materials, woven sewing baskets and bags, tooled leather articles, lacquered boxes and bowls, tile top tables, pottery and many other examples of artcraft.
Any woman who has a desire to express herself through the work of her hands can acquire skill if she will but try. Instructions for all these crafts may be obtained in "Handicraft for Every Woman," published by the General Board of Relief Society. On page 91 the full details of wood carving are given. Block printing may be found on page 77, basketry on page 96, rug making on page 98, lacquer work on page 104, leathercraft: page 106, redecorating furniture, page 33, lamp shades page 50, Batik page 58, embroidery page 62. There is also a bibliography in the back of the book which tells where more information on all of the subjects may be obtained. These references may be found in the public library.
Gifts made according to any of these standard crafts are really valuable and not a passing fad which will be discarded in a short time. While we are making gifts why not make this kind of gift which has a lasting artistic and useful value. There are many other suggestions for inexpensive gifts in "Handicraft for Every Woman." For example it tells how to make beautiful and useful trays from old picture frames; bags, slippers, cushions, children's caps, etc., from old felt hats; waste baskets, screens, desk sets, book covers from wall paper; articles from cellophane, bedspreads and table cloths from old lace, to apply stenciling to various articles, etc. Instructions on knitting and crocheting are to be found, and there are so many useful and beautiful gifts to make in this way. In fact it would be hard to find a book which contains more suggestions as to what might be made for Christmas gifts than "Handicraft for Every Woman." ' Stake work leaders may consult libraries for the books listed in the Bibliography and obtain more details to give to the ward groups.
LITERATURE (For Third Week in December)
Lesson 3 ALICE FREEMAN PALMER
Miss Freeman, who sat working in her office just twelve hours before the ceremony that made her Mrs. Palmer, was not deprived of all those things that help to make a bride; for she wrote to a child in whom she was interested saying: "On Friday morning, December 23, I am to be married in Boston, just Mr. Palmer's family and my own being present. A few of our dearest friends are to be invited to meet us immediately afterwards. I wish my little girl could be there to meet her new father. But I will answer now the questions you have in mind. I am to be married in a long white moire dress, with point lace and veil, to be a real bride, you see,—and my reception dresses are dark red velvet, white lace, white silk and yellow satin. We go to housekeeping immediately in Cambridge."
And so Mr. Palmer proceeds with the story by telling us that during the spring of 1888 they occupied a furnished house in Cambridge where Mrs. Palmer was warmly welcomed. "Study was thrown to the winds; we devoted ourselves to resting, to becoming acquainted with each other and with our neighbors." "In a university town every new comer must eat his way in and during the course of his adoption as a member of the household attend a kindly series of dinners and teas." President Elliot gave a luncheon in Mrs. Palmer's honor attended solely by the Harvard faculty and their wives. Similar festivities occupied their evenings. Their afternoons were given over to calls. Mr. Palmer remembers that he made three hundred and forty in the course of the season. Monday the weekly holiday of Wellesley doors were open to Mrs. Palmer's former associates. Mr. Palmer says making a business of society was so new to him that he was interested in noting its effect. He says for a time it puzzled him to know why it was that at the end of a day Mrs. Palmer came out fresh and he exhausted. But he concluded that she had been enjoying people while he had been trying to enjoy them.
It is refreshing to know that this woman whose husband declares she did the work of ten men was on occasion "an excellent loafer;" "that she could when work was over take to a holiday a heart as light as a school girl of twelve. Her very aptitudes for business fitted her also for recreation, since whatever was appropriate to the moment, even idleness, got at once her full attention. Such intentional methods of escaping responsibility was greatly assisted too by the native nimbleness of her physical senses, her response to natural beauty, the vivacious interest she took in every moving thing, and her disposition to fill small matters with romance."
The book gives the idea that these gifted people were ideally suited to each other; that their married life was happy. Mr. Palmer says he hopes that the omission of their letters to each other will be pardoned as he could not bear their publication before his death. One feels in this union something of the adoration of Elizabeth Barrett Browning and Robert Browning for each other.
The summer after her marriage Mrs. Palmer went to Europe with her husband. He was on sabbatical leave. While there she said to one of her friends. "I don't know what will happen if life goes on growing so much better and brighter each year. How does your cup manage to hold so much? Mine is running over, and I keep getting larger cups; but I can't contain all my blessings and gladness. We are both so well and busy that the days are never half long enough."
Mr. Palmer contended from the first that marriage would increase Mrs. Palmer's sphere of usefulness. "And so it proved. The work begun at Wellesley was not broken during the fifteen years in Cambridge but was vastly assisted by the surroundings of a home." She loved her home duties. Nothing that she ever did, says her husband, was done better than her housekeeping to which she devoted one-third of her time.
There was much anxiety about the education of young women at the time. They were "just emerging from sheltered homes, desirous of education and of whatever else might help to enlarge their lives. Many feared they might drop their delicacy and spiritual power in the process. Mrs. Palmer did much to lessen this danger and to quiet those fears. She not only opened college doors, but she helped to fix a standard of what college girls should be. Persuasively and in her own person she showed how a deepened intelligence and a wider knowledge of affairs may heighten the characteristic and ancestral traits of woman and permanently increase her charm. It was an immensely important task and one for which she was singularly fitted."
She had been placed on the Board of Trustees of Wellesley, but she was ready and able to serve other colleges. In 1892 the University of Chicago was founded and Mr. Palmer was asked to be the head of the department of philosophy and Mrs. Palmer Dean of Women and professor of history. Mr. Palmer was receiving four thousand dollars a year at Harvard, the Chicago position would pay them twelve thousand, six thousand each. Yet "her voice was from the first against accepting the call. She loved her home. She cared little for money, having modest tastes and much enjoyment, as I have already shown, in getting large results from small outlays. My roots, she thought, were too deep in Harvard soil for removal to be quite honorable. She doubted whether our scholarly opportunities in Chicago would equal those in Cambridge, did not like to interpose such a distance between herself and Wellesley, and perhaps dreaded the wear and tear to which she would be exposed by another absorption in college duties. We accordingly declined the call."
It seems extraordinary in these days when nearly all people reach out so continuously for money that these people should have such a keen sense of values. President Elliot was meeting the situation by saying that he preferred Harvard's traditions to Chicago's millions.
"But President Harper was insistent. Founding for the first time a great co-educational university in a city he desired Mrs. Palmer's planning and superintendence, even if she were not to be continuously on the ground. He proposed, therefore, that she should accept the Deanship of Women without teaching and with no obligation to reside in Chicago more than twelve weeks. The periods of her residence might be distributed throughout the year according to her convenience. She was to have general superintendence of the women's lodging, food, conduct, and choice of studies, and to select a sub-Dean to carry on the work in her absence."
This she did for three years but resigned in June, 1895, to go to Europe. But Wellesley and Chicago were not the only institutions claiming her time. At her very door Radcliffe College was coming into existence. In connecting this new college with Harvard the question arose whether degrees should be given by Harvard or by Radcliffe. As we should expect Mrs. Palmer favored Harvard. It became apparent that Harvard would decline to give the degree unless Radcliffe possessed at the start an endowment of $100,000. The Women's Education Association of Boston of which Mrs. Palmer was president took up the matter of endowment with enthusiasm and appointed her chairman of a small committee charged to raise the money. At the end of the winter $90,000 had been raised. Then the Harvard Corporation refused to grant the request and the money was returned. A few years later she assisted in raising $110,000 for Wellesley.
Because of her keen interest in every type of woman's college she gave much time to fostering the Collegiate Alumnae Association. In 1891 she was made president of The Women's Education Association and served in that capacity for nine years. In 1889 she was appointed by Governor Ames a member of the Massachusetts State Board of Education. She was reappointed by Governor Greenhalge and Governor Crane until she became a senior member of the Board. At her death she was still a member of the Board, having served in that position for thirteen years.
Susan B. Anthony has served American women in one way, Jane Addams in another, and Carry Chapman Catt in yet another, but Alice Freeman Palmer was the great sponsor of woman's education. And for her zeal and intelligence in the work she has not gone unrewarded. In 1882 her own Alma Mater, the University of Michigan, conferred upon her the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, in 1887 at the centennial celebration of Columbia University she received the degree of Doctor of Letters, and in 1896, Union University at its Centennial conferred upon her the degree of Doctor of Laws.
In the chapel at Wellesley is a monument to her memory depicting a beautiful young woman for whom she is pointing the way with one hand, with the other she is touching her with great tenderness, at the same time speaking to her words of wisdom.
"To commemorate Miss Freeman after she became Mrs. Palmer, Mrs. Durant, wife of the founder, in 1888, built a new hall and named it Freeman Cottage. Nor was she forgotten at Chicago, for, since her death, "a group of its friends have set a chime of bells in its tower, forever to voice her praise."
She went to Europe again in 1902 as another sabbatical year had come around. Shortly before her wedding anniversary she fell ill from a strange disease of which medicine knew nothing. She lingered a few days after an operation and then died. She was not yet forty-eight.
When Mr. Palmer returned from Europe a service was held at Cambridge. This was on January 31, 1903. A chorus of Harvard men and another of Wellesley girls furnished the music, singing her hymn, "The Tempest," and others especially dear to her. Four college presidents addressed those assembled. The first speaker was her own beloved President Angell, followed by President Hazard of Wellesley and President Tucker, and closed by President Elliot of Harvard.
This was she of whom one said: "All had significance and found their fitting place in her responsive soul. 'One flower, one tree, one baby, one bird singing, or one little village would move her to love and praise as surely as a garden, a forest, a university, an orchestra, or a great city.'"
"I never knew one who more fully, with William Blake, 'Could see a world in a grain of sand, And a heaven in a wild flower: Hold infinity in the palm of the hand, And eternity in an hour.' Or with one of her own poets, Henry Vaughan, could so— 'Feel through all this fleshly dress Bright shoots of everlastingness.'"
In his closing chapter Mr. Palmer admits that he has not done the thing he set out to do, nor is it ever possible; for like a great sunset a great soul defies description. Trying to give a summary of her many qualities blended into one personality he says: "Such was her wealthy unity, the despair of him who would portray."
Since her death her statue has been placed in the Hall of Fame in New York City.
Questions
1. Do you think domestic skill compatible with her intellectual attainments? If so, why? If not, why?
2. Discuss Alice Freeman Palmer as a champion of education for women.
3. Do you think she was easy of approach or difficult? If difficult, tell why. If easy, tell why.
4. Do you think her wise or unwise in her refusal to go to Chicago? Give your reasons for your point of view.
5. Recount some of the honors that came to her in her life.
Note: For further information consult chapters nine to the end of "The Life of Alice Freeman Palmer," by George Herbert Palmer.
SOCIAL SERVICE (Fourth Week in December)
THE SPIRIT OF SERVICE IN INDUSTRY
Text: Civic Sociology, By Edward A. Ross Chapter XIV
THE development of a social attitude of mind to temper and modify the reactions of individual life and to help give society an orderly arrangement is an urgent problem in human relations. The world has not yet reached the point where people love their neighbors as themselves; hence, the constant need of controlling the personal forces which guide mankind. Particularly is this true in industrial life.
The present economic order has developed from centuries of effort to earn a living from nature. It involves the methods and standards of production, efforts to develop social control of the producing process, the proper distribution of products, and the standards which have evolved to govern behavior of workers and consumers. While human life is not completely controlled by economic factors, it has always been so conditioned by economic requirements that the struggle thus occasioned has come to be one of the most basic elements of life. It is out of this struggle that the problems of this lesson have evolved.
The responsibility and the part played by various factors in production are among the most important questions from the social point of view. To crystallize thought upon these issues, this lesson will develop the following points:
1. To show that the production of goods for consumption is a social fact rather than an individual one.
2. To develop an understanding of individual responsibility in rendering service in industry.
Not much more than two generations ago nine-tenths of the people lived in rural regions and were engaged in agriculture. The home was a self-sustaining economic unit producing most of the goods needed. Wool was carded, spun, and made into family garments. Food and shelter were the products of family enterprise. One's responsibility for service was to his family. Those families where energy and integrity abounded were usually independent, and toward the close of life, financially adequate. While life was strenuous because of the economic struggle, it possessed many socializing forces not found in the modern home. Father and son, mother and daughter worked together with unity of purpose on projects aimed to promote family or community well being. A spirit of service equal to the day permeated life.
The transition from this early stage to modern industrial organization is marked with the growing use of tools and industrial organization. The increasing use of capital has made nature more subject to man. As man has depended more and more upon these mechanical aids the population has collected in industrial centers and factories, with the ownership of such means of production being concentrated into the hands of fewer people.
As business converged, step by step, into industrial centers, workers left their rural communities and gathered where their chances of finding employment were better. Cottage life where all worked together gave way to the employee communities near manufacturing plants where life was regulated to the tune of the factory whistle. Father and sons would leave early in the morning to return after an exhausting day of labor. Often the daughters of the family also took an active part in the industrial scheme, commencing to earn their living very early in life. Although there was often much that was undesirable, and under some circumstances much that was actually pitiable, there was usually some contact between the workers and the owner of the factory. Some feeling of personal pride and responsibility usually existed in the hearts of both.
But ownership and management of industry have changed. Whereas factories and business organizations were formerly in the hands of individuals who managed their own property and maintained personal relations with their employees and their communities, the ownership of the means of production has been gradually passing from individuals to large companies, leaving the laborer but a small instrument in the productive process. The great divisions of capital and labor are the result of this divided ownership. Thus, one of the fundamental trends of productive economy is away from scattered, local, individual ownership and management toward corporate ownership and management.
This has had a profound effect upon the distribution of wealth. It is estimated that about four-fifths of American business wealth, not including banking, is in the hands of corporations. Collective proprietors operating on a national scale have supplanted the individual proprietor. Ownership, instead of resting with one individual, is diffused among the hundreds of stockholders who form the corporation. Responsibility for the well being of the individual has likewise become diffused with such ownership. Concern for the social well being of the worker becomes a community concern along with the productive process. Our ideals of social control are changed to meet the new situation. The whole process is necessarily then a social fact and cannot safely be left to the whims and fancies of individual control.
That such a point of view is being accepted is shown by the social security legislation now being passed by various nations and the different states in the United States. The worker who spends the most productive part of his life in the service of others should not be left without economic security in old age. The employer may be interested primarily in profits, not in the welfare of the community. If by making an article of nice appearance but less enduring value, or curtailing the sanitary and health conditions of his workers, he can increase his profits, he is apt to do so. If through deceptive advertising he can best his competitor, many will not refrain from doing this. In each case society loses thereby. If the adoption of a new invention will lower costs in a firm thus throwing many workers out of the opportunity to earn a livelihood, the change will be made, no matter how great the human costs to the workmen suddenly deprived of employment. It is proper that social welfare should be protected by restrictions prohibiting anti-social acts.
The professions after a generation of experience have developed a code of ethics which goes far in regulating man-to-man relations. Because there are some individuals who fail to live up to the ideals of their group, the standard is nonetheless so classified, generally speaking. As pointed out in the text, the motive of the professional man is actuated by an ideal of service to mankind. The interest of the patron and society must be protected and his advertising cannot be of the same obtrusive character practiced by the business man. Is it too much to expect that those who control our great productive processes shall be actuated by the same altruistic motives, serving the better and finer interests of those whose services they employ instead of exploiting the human energy of women, children, and other workers?
The rights of laborers in the economic order have changed equally with industry itself. Our pioneer ancestors grew up under the teaching that individuals in a society should be willing to help those who are economically less fortunate. Particularly was this one of the ideals of our Church. But the world has come to think that individuals should be allowed to engage in economic activity without being restrained by law or some other form of social control. Such a theory in economic literature is known as the "doctrine of laissez-faire." Believers in that philosophy held that complete freedom of action and individual initiative bring the greatest good to the greatest number. Such rugged individualism may have been suited to scenes in the early development of frontier life, where the early settler who pushed his way to the unsettled West and started new communities, maintaining law and order by use of his rifle, was subject to but little social control. Nor was there much need for social control while the industry which followed the settler was decentralized. But under such conditions laissez-faire became the open course, and attendant evils followed in its wake.
Laissez-faire developed to the point where government control of natural resources is now being instituted. As has been pointed out, business units have also developed to the point where major industries are in the hands of tremendous corporations with diffused responsibility. Under such conditions some form of social control becomes necessary to protect the workers. Is it not logical that in a country where, for the sake of the conservation of natural resources, the old policy of laissez-faire has been curbed, that another kind of laissez-faire—the exploiting of the human energy of the masses for the benefit of the few—should also be restricted?
Service for service, if regulated according to the value given, and so recognized, is not a romantic ideal, but a practical form of reward for labor adapted to everyday life. Of necessity, greater ability should be rewarded with greater returns if society is to progress. But it does not follow that factory workers are nothing more than ants in hills of ceaseless activity where all-powerful ant-eaters may gobble the fruits of their labor in unconscionable swallows. If the attempt is made society should see that the swallower's Adam's apple is bruised to an unpalatable extent.
But, on the other hand, to charge industry with the responsibility of humanizing its attitude and point of view would be unfair without holding individuals responsible for rendering service to industry. There should be no element of the attitude that the world owes one a living— livings must be earned through honest effort. Under individual freedom men went to the extreme. The evils which developed are not to be tolerated today. Ethical ideals were lost in the quest for money. Children were compelled to work excessively long hours. Unfair advantages were taken of women; harmful drugs were sold as medicine, adulterated foods and short weights were sold in the name of honest dealings. Individual freedom to do as one pleases has outlived its day since we all demand protection from the unscrupulous actions of others. Absolute liberty in society is impossible. Conflicting interests of employer and employee must constantly be reconciled. However, individual rights to property, initiative, and reward for services rendered must in no sense be abridged as long as those personal rights contribute to social well being.
The social point of view is far from realization in the lives of the majority of people, and until it does permeate the public mind there will be need of teaching responsibility for rendering honest service in industry. Restricting actions in the interest of public welfare, need not in any way limit the right of an individual to his private control and management of property. The teachings of the scripture still set the goal to which all should consciously strive. "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might." Ecc. 9:16. "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets." Matt. 7:12.
Since the law does not set up the ethical standards by which business should be conducted, an approach to those standards can be achieved only through education of the people. A consciousness must be awakened to lead the way.
Activities
1. Apply the principles of the professional spirit given in the text: pp. 193-195, to the spirit of the vocation, if one, through which your family earns its livelihood, and see if the standard of conduct, generally speaking can be raised to a higher level. In case adjustments are found desirable, where does the greater responsibility rest, with the employer or the employee?
2. List the basic elements of the commercial spirit and the professional spirit to see if it is possible to work out a harmony between the two.
CHILD GUIDANCE
Lesson 3 WHY OUR CHILDREN ARE NOT ALIKE
IF we were to gather a basket full of newly fallen maple leaves, measure the length of each and carefully record each measurement, we should find that most of them would measure near an average length. There would be a few very long ones and a few very short ones. The greater the difference from average length, the more rarely would we find it.
Human beings differ in much the same manner. Most men would measure near five feet eight inches; there would be a few as tall as six and a half feet and a very few as tall as eight feet, just as there would be a few as short as four feet and a very few as short as two and a half feet. Their weights would probably be distributed in much the same way. Now, when we come to the intelligence or brightness of people, we find there are many average intellects, a few very bright people and a few very dull ones. There is no sharp line in the distribution between the bright and the dull. Their personality characteristics would vary in like manner if we had accurate ways of measuring them, i.e., taking the general run of people, their personality characteristics would be called ordinary, but there would be differences of various degrees in each characteristic, such as good humor, cheerfulness, sociability, grouchiness, gloominess, or solitariness.
Why is it that people differ so much and in so many different ways? Why do our own children who have the same parents and the same home, differ so much? Some folks would say that it is because they are born different, or that Nature made them to be different; others would say that it is because they have been fed or trained differently. Both statements are partially right, but to say that differences between individuals are due to either heredity or environment is misleading.
Heredity and environment interact to produce differences between people, and both are probably always involved. Even a person's physical size is influenced both by what kind of body he inherits and by all of his health habits. Differences in personality and intelligence of two children can be accounted for only by recognizing that they are born different even though they have the same parents, and also that their environment (or the world they live in) is different even though they live in the same home. For is it not so that there can be only one first child who has no older brother to tease and whip or love and take care of him? The last child in a family is born to older parents who may have done all their experimenting in training the older children. Their methods of educating the children probably have become wiser by the time the last child comes along, but sometimes the youngest must suffer the handicap of being pampered excessively. Children in the middle of the series are usually treated in a still different way, perhaps by being more or less ignored.
The differences in the worlds in which the various children grow is easily understood. The general quality of a child's personality may be seriously affected, for good or ill, by just such conditions as those mentioned here.
To further clarify this point, consider some other conditions that may arise in the child's life to make him different from other children. Suppose a child is born with some physical deformity, such as a club foot. The deformity itself may not be associated at birth with any defect of mind or personality, but as soon as the child becomes aware of the fact that he is not like other children, he may begin to develop compensating or counteracting habits of acting in his association with other children. He may cultivate a very delicate and refined manner, or he may do the opposite and become extremely boisterous and overbearing to cover up the physical deficiency. Later in life, his deformity may handicap him in successfully competing in physical games. To this circumstance he may compensate by excelling in intellectual pursuits.
Sometimes children differ widely because they are born with different aptitudes. One child may have more natural ability in handling tools and concrete objects than his brother. Because mechanical tasks come easily to him, he spends his time at them and takes pride in his achievements, whereas his brother who may have a special talent for music spends his time at the piano. At first the differences between the boys in musical and mechanical ability probably were relatively small—a difference produced perhaps by heredity—but after a few years of following up these abilities with special practice and training the difference is greatly increased, and this is probably due to environment.
Frequent and prolonged illness early in a child's life may result from inheriting a weak body (although this is not always the case); but after he has been a sick child for a considerable time, he may develop, by learning, certain characteristics of personality that will be his style of life the remainder of his days. He may cultivate extremely gentle and grateful qualities which will make him lovable, or he may learn to expect more than his share from others and go through life a selfish and grasping person. Here again we see how an inborn difference between children may be the starting point for a very wide difference in disposition and interests later in life.
On the other hand, the training in the home is sometimes adjusted so as to make original differences between children diminish. One of the girls in the family seems always to have been very aggressive and irritable. An intelligent parent tactfully manages to teach her that other members of the family should be considered if she is to avoid being irritated and if she wishes to find happiness in their society. In time the mother observes that the daughter in question does conform more nearly to a style of considerate living that has always been easy for the other girls. The children may differ in ability to grasp school work; but the considerate mother gives the slower one a little more assistance and encouragement until the differences in school achievement appear less than at first, even though one child may be brighter than another.
It should be clear now that our children differ because, first, they inherit certain differences; and second, because they are never subjected to exactly the same environment. The differences are, therefore, due to both heredity and environment. Our neighbors' children differ more from ours than our own do from each other, because theirs have completely different heredity and a home environment that may differ radically from our own. The children of different countries may differ, both because they are racially somewhat different and particularly because their culture is not the same.
Family traditions for doing good school work as well as inherited ability both run in families, and both are usually important in producing scholars. Ability to succeed at special trades also is inherited to a certain extent; but the "talk of the trade" heard in the home also has much to do with the children's following successfully in their father's footsteps. The nervous or unstable temperament may be inherited physically, but the children of a mother so afflicted not only inherit her weakness but are subjected throughout their early years to unstable home conditions that come out of her defect. She explodes at them, complains of her ills, whines, gets ill to attract attention, and quarrels with her husband. Is there any doubt that her unstable nervous system is passed on to the children to incapacitate them to meet the unstable home conditions she inflicts upon them as well? They may be unstable as she was both because of the heredity and the environment she furnished. The behavior characteristics of parents are absorbed by the children socially as well as biologically.
After we have done all in our power to see that our children are well born, we still have the great responsibility of furnishing them an equally good social inheritance, consisting of family ideals of honesty, consideration for others, industry, and devotion to God and all His teachings.
Problems for Discussion
1. Explain how truth speaking could be passed on to the children both through the inheritance of intelligence sufficient for accuracy of thinking and by social influences in the home.
2. How should we speak of the relative influence of heredity and environment in causing differences between people? How can a parent reduce differences between children (when the differences are known to be undesirable)?
OBLIGATION OF THE CHURCH
"THE present situation throughout the United States of America relative to the beverage alcohol problem constitutes a major challenge to the Church. It is probably safe to say that at no time in the history of the American temperance movement has the demand upon the Church in connection with that movement been more definitely linked with responsibility for the future of both the temperance reform and the Church itself.
If the Church is to influence society today as it has in the past, it must set itself against all forms of evil and must hold to its purpose regardless of any different attitude on the part of influential members in the pews or other influences. The task of the Church is the redemption of the world and the establishment of the kingdom of righteousness. It can take no middle course.—Ernest H. Cherrington in The American Issue.
A Little Hero By Grace Jacobsen
THE history of the Utah pioneers is replete with deeds of heroism and courage of the men and women who subdued the desert and laid the foundation of this wonderful commonwealth. Not so much has been said about the children whose sublime fortitude and patient suffering calls forth our profoundest admiration. For true courage in the face of the greatest danger the following incident has few equals.
In the year 1856 a man named Lee, his wife, five children, a hired man and a hired girl lived on a ranch four miles southeast of Beaver where Indians were plentiful, as well as untrustworthy. A band of about twenty Utes who were supposed to be friendly decided it was the proper time to gather their stolen cattle and drive them from the lower valley to the higher pastures and plateaus. The Lee ranch lay directly in their path forming an obstacle which they felt must be removed, by destroying the Lee family.
One night in late October they surrounded the ranch and kept up a hideous imitation of hungry wolves in order to mislead the innocent victims of their murderous intent. Strange how impending danger often sends a silent message on before; so it was the sleeping household were restless and fearful. Especially the children who cried out and called for mother. Even the old watch dog trotted around the house listening—watching the whole night.
Just before dawn his loud barking brought Mr. Lee and the hired man to the door yard in a hurry only to meet these savage foes who opened fire. The hired man fell immediately with a bullet in his breast. Mr. Lee dragged him into the house and called the terrified family to bar the door and windows, load the old shotgun and fight for their lives. Mrs. Lee was kept busy administering to the dying man and loading the gun. Several braves fell dead as a result of Mr. Lee's true aim. The enraged savages seized pick, hoe, or any available implement climbed up to the roof of the house and began ripping off the boards, setting fire to the outer edge. The weather was damp and ignition took place slowly but great clouds of smoke filled the house nearly choking the captives and sending the baby in the cradle into convulsions. The father tried to tear away the burning boards overhead with a crow-bar the hired girl had managed to bring in at the risk of her life but the flames only spread the faster. To venture out for water meant certain death for Mr. Lee. He must not go, he was their only protector, his going meant annihilation for the whole family. The eleven year old girl offered to bring the water but was not permitted to do so.
It seemed their hour had come; something must be done, and done quickly. Then that little hero, their nine year old son stepped to his mother's side and in childish eloquence begged to be allowed to run for help. This request sent a chill to the mother's heart. "No, no, my son, I cannot let you go. I will never see you again." "Mother," he replied, "I would rather be shot in the open than die like a rat in a trap. It is the one chance for my life and yours."
Tearfully she consented. The door was opened enough for him to crawl through. The hired girl decided to go too but took the open road and was later rescued, but the boy took the short cut as he had promised his mother he would. Out through bushes and brambles, over rock and sharp stones his little bare feet flew as fast as his strength would permit. A second Paul Revere sounding the alarm for the defence of those he loved. At length he reached the outer fields of Beaver where some men were at work. His clothes torn and stained with blood, his feet bleeding, his body all aquiver, he had barely strength enough to whisper, "Indians," but that was enough. They understood. Within twenty minutes fifteen or twenty men were in their saddles galloping to the rescue. The Indians were routed and the family saved. The little hero was not forgotten, in due time he was returned to the loving arms of his parents.
Just a bare foot boy in tatters Just a thought of home and love, But the deed he did for others Is recorded up above.
A PLEA By Nellie P. Elzenga
God grant me these: the strength to do Some needed service here; The wisdom to be brave and true; The gift of vision clear, That in each task that comes to me Some purpose I may plainly see.
God teach me to believe that I Am stationed at the post, Although the humblest 'neath the sky, Where I am needed most. And that, at last, if I do well My humble services will tell.
God grant me faith to stand on guard, Uncheered, unpraised, alone, And see behind such duty hard My service to the throne. Whate'er my task, be this my creed, I am on earth to fill a need.
ONLY A MOTHER COULD UNDERSTAND By Janey Haefeli
When your tiny head was pillowed Slumbering sweetly on my breast, When I carried you so gently Laid you in your crib to rest, When I curled your silken tresses Taught your lips to lisp each day, Guided faltering tiny footsteps All through childhood's happy way, I thought not of darkened future When you'd travel far away.
When alone each day, and lonely, How I'd miss you, and I'd pray For the Lord to guide your footsteps By His spirit, day by day Safe from harm and temptation Where'er you chanced to stray.
How I'd long, and wait with patience For the day of your return. When you grew to be the stronger No more for my arms you'd yearn. How the hours would drag with waiting Days would seem like weary years. Life would scarce seem worth the living With force I'd stay the choking tears.
How as weary weeks go onward Each one like the one before, No more children's joyous prattle No more sound of banging door, No more romping, shouting, singing. All—is silent—as the grave— Had I foreseen all the heartaches I doubt if I'd have been so brave,
To suffer, love and sacrifice, Just to raise a restless brood, Left alone some day and lonely, When my birdlings took the mood.
But no! 'twas worth the sorrow The heart aches and the pain To meet the smiles and loving Arms, as each comes home again.
I would not change it if I could Those years mean all to me Those precious lips, those clinging Arms, life's precious memory.
Alone, I live again those precious Years; each clever little saying Each smile, each chubby little hand Left lasting prints upon my heart Only a mother, could understand. Social Security and You
WOULD YOU Support a record in Public Relief Administration and Welfare Service surpassed in no other state in the Nation, and Endorse a forward looking Program for Social Security that has won Nation-wide recognition?
A RECORD WHICH DESERVES SUPPORT
Placed Utah in front ranks of states administering Federal Social Security benefits.
Provided sympathetic program for relief of needy of all classes and support of state's Social, Economic and Business Life.
Reduced State property tax levies and provided sound financial management with lower debts and other relief to property taxpayer.
Vote For Governor BLOOD And All Democratic Candidates (Paid Political Advertisement)
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
ONLY GAS HEAT gives you all these advantages
• 100% Automatic Operation. • No ordering of fuel. • Dustless. • Fuel of uniform quality. • No moving parts to wear out. • Fuel of uniform price. • Smokeless, stokeless, ashless. • No storage space required.
Many families, using all-gas service, heat their homes with gas for less money than they formerly paid for other fuels. Let us give you a free estimate of costs for your home.
MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY 36 South State Salt Lake City Wasatch 1300
USE Utah Beet Sugar For Better Results
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE CONSTITUTION
The Constitution of the United States assures to women full equality as citizens and guarantees to them the right to hold any public office. The present tendency in government throughout the world is toward dictatorship. Wherever dictatorships are established the rights of women are completely disregarded. The tendency of the New Deal administration to disregard the constitution and to effect centralization of power at Washington, should be resented by every woman in America. Respect for the Constitution and preservation of our American ideals is the guarantee of the people of America against the assumption of too much power by those elected to office. The people of Utah generally believe that the Constitution is a divinely inspired document. The Republican party is pledged to the perpetuation of constitutional government. It is pledged to preserve the ideals that have made this the greatest nation on earth. The Republican party invites your support of its candidates.
ALFRED M. LANDON, President COLONEL FRANK KNOX, Vice-President RAY E. DILLMAN, Governor KEITH WAHLQUIST, Secretary of State BYRON D. ANDERSON, Attorney General EDSEL CHRISTENSEN, Treasurer D. K. MOFFATT, Auditor E. E. GREENWOOD, Supt. Public Instruction JUSTICE ELIAS HANSEN, Justice Supreme Court CHARLES W. DUNN, Congressman, 1st Cong. District JUDGE V. A. WATKINS, Congressman, 2nd Cong. District
(Paid Political Advertisement)
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!
INDUSTRY OFFERS YOU... Employment— financial independence— responsibility— opportunity for advancement. Business training will qualify you for the better positions. Send for our catalog
L. D. S. Business College 70 North Main Salt Lake City Wasatch 1812
You Get Double Value— from your subscription to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and other Church publications, when you preserve your magazines in permanently bound volumes. Send your back numbers to us now! During Oct. We will return them to you postpaid attractively and durably bound in cloth, stamped in gold.
Relief Society Magazine......$1.50 Instructor........................1.50 Improvement Era................2.00 Children's Friend..............2.00 per volume
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS "PIONEER PRINTERS AND BINDERS OF THE WEST" 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
In their Faces —a Plea and a Promise
A plea for loving care which provides food, clothing, and happy surroundings in which to grow up. A promise of a new life with its boundless hopes for the future.
ADEQUATE life insurance, providing protection against possible future hardships, is a vital part of the loving care a child deserves. But life insurance does more. It builds reserve funds which can be used later for the child's education and training. Life insurance thus helps fulfill the promise in a baby's face. Let a Beneficial representative help you plan a program of life insurance for the security of your children.
If It's a Beneficial Policy It's the Best Insurance You Can Buy
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
HOME OFFICE——BENEFICIAL LIFE BLDG...SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Volume XXIII NOVEMBER, 1936 No. 11
HOME BUILT BY PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT FOR HIS MOTHER WHEN HE WAS TWENTY-ONE YEARS OLD
HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS From Factory To You—We Solicit Your Mail Orders
No. 88. Lt. Weight Men's and Ladies' New Style..........$.65 No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style............1.10 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back.....................1.45 No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style, Double Back................1.50 No. 86. Extra Fine Rayon and Double Combed Yarn. Ladies' New Style Only...........................1.25 No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles.....................$.85
We Charge 10% Extra For Extra Sizes. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. We Mark Garments For 10c.
No. 84 Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style........85 No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Rayon, Men's and Ladies' New Style Only........................1.10 No. 83. Extra Fine Silk-Rayon Double Combed Yarn. Better Than Part Wool. This Comes in Winter Weight Men's New Style.....................1.65
New Style, Button Side. Guaranteed Non-Run-Rayon. Ladies'....1.25
Please Specify When Ordering Your Bust. Trunk and Length, Whether New or Old Style, and if Men's or Ladies'.
THIS IS ALSO THE PLACE TO OUTFIT THE MISSIONARY WITH ONE OF THOSE FAMOUS RAMBOULLETTE SUITS
Ramboullette 1875 Serge. Single or Double Breast. Extra Pants, $4.00
WE ALWAYS GIVE SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO THE MISSIONARY
14 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
OLDER EYES Need MORE Light!
If you sew or read, then for the sake of your eyesight, see that the lamps give enough light and are properly shaded. A trained lighting specialist will help solve your problems.
Light Is So Cheap
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
This is one of our Specials Our Famous
WE HAVE A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF HEAVY WORSTEDS AT
A. SCHILLING'S BAKING POWDER
Like all Schilling's products, A. Schilling & Company place their name and reputation behind their baking powder and our prices are cheap indeed—6 oz. Can 15c, 12 oz. Can 27c.
O. P. SKAGGS Efficient Service FOOD System "A SURETY OF PURITY"
Service Above All
SALT LAKE PROVO OGDEN PRICE PAYSON MANTI
HOME OWNED HOME OPERATED
1st South at 3rd East—17th South at 5th East South Temple at 2nd East
We Give and Redeem Trading Discount Stamps. "We Feature Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products Double Stamps Equal About 5% Saving
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XXIII NOVEMBER, 1936 No. 11
CONTENTS
Be Brave, O Heart!.......................Bryce W. Anderson 669 Frontispiece.................................................670 My Husband.............................Augusta Winters Grant 671 An Appreciation.......................Dessie Grant Boyle 672 Inscription Plates by Pres. Grant to His Daughter Rachel....674 Letter Written by Pres. Grant to His Daughter..............676 My Father............................Rachel Grant Taylor 676 If We Could See Beyond the Surface.....Josephine Gardiner Moench 678 Some Outstanding Characteristics of Pres. Heber J. Grant..George W. Middleton 679 President Heber J. Grant...................Dr. John H. Taylor 682 Why Build Monuments....................Mary Grant Judd 684 Relief Society Conference................Julia A. F. Lund 687 Greetings............................Louise Y. Robison 687 Department Meetings......................................689 General and Stake Officers' Meeting..........................708 General Session.......................Julia A. F. Lund 714 A Wish............................Carlton James Balfour 718 Happenings..........................Annie Wells Cannon 719 Editorials: Best Wishes.............................................720 We Thank You...........................................721 Our Project............................................721 Lesson Department...........................................722 My Song..........................Adeline Rasmussen Ensign 734 Little Boy........................Theora Jensen Box 734
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah: Telephone Wasatch 3540; Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
AMERICAN BEAUTY WASHER $5.00 to $30.00 REDUCTION ON DEXTER WASHERS.
THE ROUND OAK RANGE $69.50 "America's Finest"
GRANITE FURNITURE Co. 1050 East 21st South Sugar House Out of the high rent district Murray Park City
Peerless Laundry Complete Laundry Service Snow White Clothes 1184 East 21st South Hyland 2182
TEMPLE BRAND L. D. S. GARMENTS
36 years experience insures quality and gives you underwear at reasonable prices.
REMEMBER—We pay Postage to any place in the United States We are the Manufacturers of ALL APPROVED L. D. S. GARMENTS
Regular Style For Men Regular Style For Women 760 Non-Run Rayon................1.00 610 Light Weight Spring Needle....1.10 719 Ribbed Med. Light Wt. Cotton.1.10 602 Extra Fine Quality Lisle......1.25 762 Non-Run Rayon................1.15 614 Medium Weight Extra Quality...1.25 734 Non-Run Super Bemberg Silk...1.25 634 Non-Run Super Bemberg Silk...
Garments Marked Upon Request. 10c Per Pair Extra 20% Extra Charge for Sizes Over 48
Do not fail to specify New or Old Style and if for Man or Woman. Also state if long or short sleeve, short or long legs are wanted. Give accurate Bust Measurements. Height and Weight. Samples Sent Upon Request.
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah—OLDEST KNITTING STORE IN UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
We give and redeem S. & H. Green Trading Stamps
103 Flat Weave Spring Needle........98 792 Fine Quality Cotton Lisle.......1.25 760 Silk and Wool Medium Weight....1.95 Your book is worth $2.50
620 Medium Lt. Wt. Double Back.....98 664 Med. Heavy Wt. Cot. Double Back 1.50 660 Silk and Wool Medium Weight....
BREAD... A Health Food
Bread is your best food. It should form "the principal source of energy in the American diet," according to an eminent nutrition authority.*
Eat FISHER'S
Eat Fisher's Vitamin D Bread—it gives you the added value of sunshine Vitamin D.
*E. V. McCollum, Ph. D., Sc. D.
Product of AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY, "The Big Home-Owned Bakery"
MILK
Every Quart Is "Quality"
Day by day, ARDEN MILK consistently measures up to its high standard of quality, purity and flavor. It is always good—and good to the taste. Arden Milk is chosen at the source, the producers are paid a premium price. It reaches your table protected and guarded. Its rich, pure flavor appeals to all the family. Phone for a day's delivery. Test Arden by taste. Every quart is "quality." ARDEN DAIRY Phone Wasatch 80 Marray Laundry "MORE LEISURE HOURS FOR WOMEN" SEND US YOUR BLANKETS AND QUILTS so they will be soft and warm for winter They are washed in "RAIN SOFT ARTESIAN WATER" PHONE—HY. 612—MURRAY 213 BINGHAM 213 AMERICAN FORK 213 UTAH'S HOUSEHOLD FAVORITE FUEL BLUE BLAZE COAL COMPANY 1111 Walker Bank Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine BE BRAVE, O HEART! By Bryce W. Anderson Be brave, O faltering heart! The battle, nearly lost, may yet be won: No race is ever o'er till it is run, And blue skies always follow after dun. Be brave, O heart! Be brave! There is yet time To win the bounty, ere the day is past. To those who strive for long enough, at last Success must come. No die is ever cast Beyond return. Be brave! Be brave! Let not the crime Of quitting mar the glory of your fight; For though the world be black as Stygian night, Somewhere beyond the clouds there is a light— Somewhere a star. Be brave! PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT : The Relief Society Magazine VOL. XXIII NOVEMBER, 1936 No. 10 My Husband By Augusta Winters Grant with my husband. In that time we have shared sorrows and joys; have known hope and disappointment, but disillusionment in each other, never! Our love and respect have increased with the years. Now at eighty we enjoy life to the fullest. We echo in our hearts Browning's verse: FIFTY-TWO years I have spent "Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be— The last of life for which the first was made: Our times are in his hands Who saith, 'A whole I planned, Youth shows but half Trust God, see all, nor be afraid!’ WE have many tastes in common —we love people, simple amusements, travel, reading, music, art; we enjoy having our friends come to both our city and canyon homes, but dislike intensely any formality. We have great satisfaction in going to the Temple together. APPRECIATE the consideration and generosity which have always been shown me by my husband, but hesitate to draw aside the veil of our intimacy, except to say that no woman could have had a better husband than mine has been to me. One amusing little incident will illustrate his kindly nature. Partly in fun, partly in earnest, I suggested one day that I tell him and he me any little oddities that might annoy each other. I mentioned one or two of his slight idiosyncrasies, and then said, "Now you tell me some of my little frailties." There was a slight twinkle in his eye as he replied: 'You haven't one."' Sa Latter-day Saint wife I honor my husband as a man holding the priesthood. It is my firm conviction that if the women of our Church would rely unfalteringly upon the inspiration'of their husbands, in all important matters concerning their family affairs, they would find that their husbands would grow in the power of discernment and decision through the exercise of their priesthood. I, who know my husband better than anyone else possibly can, know him to be a man of God, that he desires to understand the mind and will of God, and in humility to do it. I therefore not only uphold him as head of my household, but head of the Church. An Appreciation By Dessie Grant Boyle lections is of my fifth birthday. My mother put a new dress on me, made my curls and tied them with a new blue ribbon, sat me on her lap and said, "Now you are getting to be such a big girl that Iam going to tell you a great secret." After explaining what a secret is she told me my real name was not "'Pattie Harris" but Dessie Grant, and that "Uncle Eli" was my father. I AM father's fifth daughter and the oldest child of my mother— Emily Wells. I was born after father was made an apostle and during the years when raids and persecutions were being waged against the general authorities because of plural marriage. For this reason it. Was necessary for mother to live away from home until I was six years old, and for our identity to be kept a secret. As I look back on those first years of mother's married life and think of how timid she was, how she loved home and family, I marvel that she ever endured being away. I think there were three things that made it possible for her to be cheerful and reasonably happy. They were, her great faith that everything would work out for the best and that she was doing right; her keen sense of humor that made her an optimist and able to laugh at the inevitable; and greatest of all, her love - for, and confidence in father. She knew that he did everything he could to make her life as easy as possible. She felt always that what he did was right and that as long as he lived everything' would be well with her and with us. And it was. The recollections of father's and mother's life together and their influence upon my life are among my happiest and most sacred memories. I have far too many blessings to count them, but I feel sure that my two greatest are my testimony and my parents. Father has been the strongest influence in my life, first through my mother, who kept him ever before us when we were young, and later through my intimate associations with him. The fact that we lived away and seldom saw father leaves me with no childish remembrance of him. He never played or romped with us, or told us stories, or carried us on his back to bed. Mother did these things. But he was nevertheless an influence in our lives from our earliest childhood. I BELIEVE my first consciousness of him is of his great generosity and that he liked to make lots of 'people happy. The first Christmas I can remember we were living in Southern Colorado, many miles from the railroad. It was difficult to send things there, and, I suppose, very expensive. But one day shortly before Christmas a wagon stopped in front of our house,—an event did you say? Mother said she only saw two strange wagons all the time we lived there and this was one of them. A man got out of the wagon and began unloading boxes, sacks, barrels and packages. There were oranges and bananas—great delicacies for that day,—there were apples and candy, nuts and raisins. There were lovely dolls and toys and new dresses and a seal skin coat for mother. The most AN APPRECIATION thrilling things imaginable! This arrival of things from father not only completely changed our Christmas but that of all the people in the town, for they were all invited to share with us. There was plenty for everyone. SOON after this, Grandpa Wells died. Although it was taking a great chance father let us come home to live. Thus we ended our days on the "underground." I had only seen him a few times, but burned into my childish consciousness were the truths that father was the most generous, kindest, most considerate father any little girls ever had, and that he would do anything, or make any sacrifice for the good of his family. This was because he loved us so much, and we must never do anything to make him sorry or ashamed of us. MY sisters and I were young when mother died, but one of the things she bequeathed to us was her great love for father and her belief that he was a tower of strength to lean upon in times of sorrow or trouble. We already knew this, but her death brought it forcibly before us. ~We looked back upon her long, sad illness with the realization that father had not left one stone unturned to bring peace, comfort and ease to her, nor to us. HIS example of how to act in time of sorrow was the greatest possible comfort and help to us. We 673 were proud to be his children and partook of his love, faith and courage. He has taught us to love life, but not to fear death; to be happy even in the face of trials and to make our Heavenly Father our best Friend. He has given us every educational advantage: schools, travel, pictures, books, music, plays. Busy as he has always been, he has never been too busy to plan for our welfare, and that of his grandchildren, great grandchildren, his close and distant relatives and his friends. He has always listened with an understanding heart to our troubles and has helped us out of them. As I have grown in years and faith and understanding I stand amazed at father's accomplishments. I could tell of his honesty and fairness, his courage and fearlessness. I could tell of his gentleness, his great humility and his abiding faith, of the wonderful example he is to his family and his Church. Or I might tell of his work for the dead or his life as a great missionary. But it seems to me that the thing that will be said of him as he stands before his Maker to be judged will be, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast kept My two Great Commandments. Thou hast loved the Lord, thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself." 674 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE These pages contain the inscription that President Grant wrote in the volume of the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants that he presented to his daughter Rachel and her husband. They reveal his beautiful character, his great love for the Scriptures, his testimony of their divinity, the comfort and joy he gets from perusing them. Thousands of books has he inscribed with helpful messages. WHY BUILD MONUMENTS 675 Letter Written by President Grant to his Daughter My Father By RACHEL GRANT TAYLOR I WAS born of goodly parents." These, the first words in the sacred record that bridged the span between ancient and modern revelation, find an echo in my heart. I too was born of goodly parents. How "goodly" none but members of the family circle can ever know. As I had been trying day after day to find words to tell you of the bond between father and his girls, there kept recurring the thought of the "Sacred To Me" section of my Gleaner Treasures of Truth book. In that book was a birthday letter written shortly after my dear mother's death. In all the years between that letter had been a cherished treasure, and no other eyes had seen its pages. Should I share it with you? At last, though it caused me a heart pang, I decided I would be generous, for I felt that no words of mine could paint in its truest colors the portrait of my beloved father as did his own words of counsel, confidence and love. You may read my letter. ASTOR HOUSE New York "August 26th, 1893. "My Darling Ray: "It is with difficulty that I am able to bring myself to appreciate the fact that in a few days you will be fifteen years old. I confess that it seems to me but yesterday since I came home from a little trip to Ogden or some other place and for the first time you were able to walk three or four steps. I remember that you kept walking back and forth from your mamma to me for a long time and seemed to think that you were doing something very wonderful and I was very much pleased indeed with your efforts in walking. I have watched you grow from a little babe to almost a young lady and I have had all the pleasure and pride that a father could possibly have in seeing you growing up with a love of the truth and a desire to do that which is right. I have worked early and late for my loved ones and I have taken much pleasure in supplying all their wants and I have been thankful for the success that I have had in my business so that I could add to your happiness and that of the others that I love so much. I have sometimes wondered if I had done less working and more visiting and talking with my little ones if it would not have been wiser, but I am not going to do any complaining now.
"I find that there is a great change and that many of the things that we have had in the past that have added to our pleasure will have to be gone without in the future and that perhaps much of the work that we have had done by others will have to be done by us, but I am thankful to feel that I am sure of your love and support and that you will without complaint take up your share of the burdens. I have been pleased with your labors so far in life as I have seen that above all things that the desire to do right and to be honest was first and foremost with you and I pray God with all my heart that you will always feel this way. I think more of your doing right than of all the gifts and graces in the way of good looks and fine things that this world can produce.
"You have a labor ahead of you in this life that is very important and that is much greater than usually falls to the lot of a girl of your years, and this labor is to assist in the rearing of your brother and sisters. Your example will do more to lead them in the right path than almost anything else that can happen. I will not be home much of the time as when I am not away on business I will be on missions for the Church and the time may come when some of the little ones will not give that heed that they should to the wishes of their Aunt Gusta, and your example in this regard will do more than words to keep them in the right path. If you are careful and thoughtful of all that you do and your example is all that it should be the little ones will follow it and the task of your Aunt Gusta will be one of love and pleasure; but on the other hand in case you and Lutie do not do all in your power to aid and assist in rearing the children, Gusta will find her labor almost more than she can endure. I know that today she feels to thank the Lord for the sweet task He has given her in having you and the rest of the children to rear. I feel that you will do all that it is possible to do and I thank the Lord that you feel this way.
"It will soon be your birthday and I write to send you all the fond love that it is within my power to send you and to wish you with all my heart many, many happy returns of the day. You will soon be in your 16th year and you must commence to have serious thoughts. I was hard at work when I was 16 earning part of the money that we were living on, and while I do not want you to go to work I do want you to save all that you can by helping at home, and above all I want you to be cheerful and happy in any and all work that you have to do. I feel that you will do all that I suggest and I am as thankful as I know how to be that you have been all that I could ask so far in your life and I pray that the Lord will watch over and protect you in the future as He has in the past. You will be going to parties and to sociables in the near future and I want you to be careful and never allow the slightest liberty to be taken by any of your escorts. There are very many of the young men among us as well as in the world that are not good and that have no regard for virtue and that is a dearer treasure than even life itself. Your mamma taught you very plainly in all things of this kind and you must remember all that she told you and watch over the other children now that she has gone and teach them as she taught you. I want you to always be free and frank with me and your Aunt Gusta as well as with mother as the safe way is to do nothing or have no companions that you do not want us to know all about. You must be as careful of your grandma's feelings as possible and do all that you can for her, as she is an old lady now and in the providences of the Lord she can't remain with us many years, and while some of the things that she wants done may not be just as we would like, we had better try to please her as it will be a pleasure to recall that we did all that we could to make her contented and happy. I regret, my darling girl, that I can not be home with you on your 15th birthday, as I had hoped that I could be there and that I would be able to add something to the pleasures of the day. I send you the fond love of a devoted father and an earnest prayer that you will be blessed and prospered of the Lord all the days of your life.
"I want you and all of us to so live that when we have finished this life that we will meet with a fond welcome from the Lord as well as your dear sweet mother. I shall not purchase you any present to remember the day by, but I will send you a father's blessing with his assurance that the life that you have led in the past has been pleasing to him and has added much to his happiness and to ask that you go on in the future making him happy by doing all the good that you can and by attending to the labors that you have before you from time to time with cheerfulness. Once more sending you all the fond love and sweet kisses that a letter can carry, I am, with a heartfelt prayer, that God will bless you always,
"Your loving and devoted father, (Signed) "Heber J. Grant."
If We Could See Beyond the Surface By Josephine Gardiner Moench
"Irresponsible youth," I remarked of a boy As he squandered his earnings away; But he rescued a child at the risk of his life In a burning apartment that day.
"A heartless coquette," I said of a girl Flirting on without semblance of ruth. As a wife she became, in the years that sped by, The soul of devotion and truth.
"Hard hearted policeman," I said of a man As his cold harsh commands reached my ears; Then I saw him the soul of benevolence true Kindly drying a little child's tears.
"Eccentric reformer," I thought of the dean As I floundered to follow her thought; Then in homage I bowed as I listened with awe To the wisdom profound which she taught.
If we could see beyond the surface, Or look for the best always, Faults to blame would be quite hidden Behind the good to praise.
Some Outstanding Characteristics of President Heber J. Grant By George W. Middleton
TURNING backward the pages of memory I recall very vividly the first time I ever saw President Grant. He was a young apostle then on one of his official visits to the southern end of the territory. Of course I knew about him but had never seen him nor had the pleasure of hearing him speak. There was a well packed house in the old tabernacle at Cedar City. It was a stormy night but the inclement weather had not deterred the people from coming out to hear the new apostle. I must have been in my early teens, at that impressionable age when our emotions lie near to the surface. The clean cut incisive style and the downright earnestness of the speaker made a profound impression on me which I have never forgotten. When the wind outside raised to a tempest, the speaker said, "Now, I can out-talk that storm, and shall only need to know how loud I must intone my voice to make you all hear. If anybody fails to hear let him hold up his hand."
PRESIDENT GRANT has a style of oratory that is all his own. Of course, any man who preaches so much is bound to repeat himself, especially when there are so many demands on his time that he could not, if he would, plan sermons. At a big gathering of prominent people at Detroit a few months ago his speech was quite a sensation, and his audience gave him an ovation, and begged him to speak again in the banquet that was to follow. There is an underlying sense of humor in many of his pungent sentences which is very pleasing, and people never hear him once without wanting to hear him again. It is a remarkable thing that although he is within a few weeks of his 80th birthday his vim and vigor and earnestness has known no abatement, and he speaks with as much force as he did half a century ago.
A YEAR or so ago I went with President Grant down to Cedar City. He was responding to a request to dedicate a new church and as it was in my native section the people had asked me to come down with him. We drove over to the hospitable home of his daughter, Mrs. Clifford Young, at American Fork for an evening dinner and then took the road through the dark night for Fillmore. "Put your speedometer at fifty miles an hour," he said to the chauffeur boy, "and keep it there. Do not let it indicate any faster or any slower speed." After a few hours' rest in the early morning we were on the road again and kept the even pace of fifty miles an hour to Cedar City, where we arrived in time for the first meeting. After carrying through two lengthy programs we were on the road again, and that same evening met an overflow crowd in the tabernacle at Fillmore. The next early morning found our speedometer still registering fifty miles an hour as we sped back to the city. I tell this to indicate the alacrity of President Grant's movements, and the many things he accomplishes by crowding so many hours into a day and making every minute count.
ONE outstanding characteristic of President Grant is moral courage. You may not always agree with him but you always know exactly where he stands on any issue, though it may be sometimes detrimental to his own interest. If he thinks he is right nobody ever need fear that he will back down. His word is as good as his bond. When the Church leaders decided that it was better to give up plural marriage than to continue the harassing struggle with the federal government it was naturally a trying time for all those people involved. After the Church gave its word of honor President Grant only inquired into the validity of their pledge, and then became staunch and immovable in his resolution to fulfill that obligation. He has absolutely no sympathy for those misguided people who fail to realize the sacredness of a promise, and so far as he is concerned they have had no quarter and cannot expect any.
IN the early experience with national politics in this state it was natural that there should be irregularities in the nature of "gum shoeing" and whispering campaigns. People had to learn by experience how to respect absolutely the rights of others. There had been considerable bad feeling engendered previous to the time of President Grant's incumbency as president both among the Mormon people and our non-Mormon neighbors. But when Heber J. Grant assumed the presidency he said: "There shall be no Church influence in politics." For the eighteen years of his rule there has not been the suspicion of Church interference in anything that does not concern the Church, and his reputation for absolute fairness has appealed not only to the members of the Mormon Church but to our non-Mormon neighbors. Everybody knows that no matter what might be President Grant's own private opinion or preference he keeps that to himself and never advises anybody how to vote, nor does he allow his subordinate officials to express opinions that might influence others, contrary to their own convictions.
PRESIDENT GRANT related to me once a remarkable testimony he received while traveling in Arizona. I cannot repeat the details of it now, but it was of such an impressive nature that he has never since doubted the verity of Mormonism, and his whole life has been devoted to its service. Every thought and every act of his life has been directed to the fulfillment of his duty as an officer of the Church, and every other activity of his life has to be made subordinate to that first impelling duty.
In the same way President Grant has been loyal to his friends. If he is once your friend he is always your friend. The voice of slander has had no place in his life. He is not seeking for faults in your life, but for those virtues which make you worthy of his friendship. He is no fair weather friend who smiles upon you today and frowns upon you tomorrow, but he is always the same. His devotion to his own family is remarkable. His interest in his children's welfare has been uniform and constant; there has been no slightest sign of partiality, though his numerous daughters are of three different mothers. His absolute sense of justice has bound his family to him with a sense of great veneration and love.
ONE of the most outstanding virtues of President Grant is his great liberality. He has naturally been a conscientious guardian of the large Church fund over which he is the trustee-in-trust, but he has been liberal with the ward and stake officials who applied for funds to build chapels and to meet other contingencies that came up in their administration. But with his private revenues he has felt that he could do with them as he pleased. Each year he has sent books by the thousands to friends all over this western part of the continent, and I should imagine to other parts far away. In homes very widely sundered I have encountered books inscribed with his classic penmanship, and dedicated in kindly words with the greetings of the Christmas season to friends who must all remember with gratitude this kindly consideration. He is truly a princely giver who never lets his left hand know what his right hand has bestowed. When kindred or friends were in trouble, delinquent tax bills were met, hospital bills liquidated and sums of money advanced as free will offerings. If he thought a friend would like a nice picture or a desired book or any other thing that would make him happy, it was forthcoming without the least thought or hesitation. He seems to have an ambition to die poor. Quite recently to help out the cause of the Church effort to take all its members off the dole, he advanced twenty-five thousand dollars out of his own pocket.
Perhaps the most remarkable things about President Grant are his wonderful vitality and his ability for sustained work. When you consider that in a very few weeks he will be eighty years old it is amazing to see how much in each day he can accomplish. His temperate life no doubt has to do with this; he has never been poisoned with tobacco nor whisky nor any other harmful thing, but beyond that there must be a durability in his physical fibre of an unusual order. You remember the Wonderful One Hoss Shay created by the imagination of our great physician poet, Doctor Oliver Wendell Holmes, had all its parts so tempered in texture and durability that it ran perfectly for a hundred years to the day and then went to pieces all in a heap. The one is fortunate who can approximate this simile in his own physical make-up, and round out his octogenarian or nonogenarian life or even reach the century mark possessed of his faculties and blessed with good health. It is hard to predict week by week and day by day what is going to happen to one who is past the scriptural allowance of three score and ten years, but here is one who is already ten years to the good of that limitation and is in much better physical condition than he was twenty years ago, and whose mind has retained its resiliancy and whose thought is just as buoyant as ever. Many men long before the eightieth year are going with drooping shoulders and with a look of self-pity in their countenance which is distressing. But here is a man with his head erect, his skylight and sidelights open and his mental and physical responses as alert as in his younger years. With perfect self-reliance he is seeking no man's pity, but wants only an opportunity to work out the fine destiny which the Lord has mapped out for him, and to stimulate others with his virile example, and his kindly demeanor to his fellows.
Is it luck, is it good living, is it destiny, or is it a combination of the three that enables one to come up to the score of eighty years with such mental and physical poise that he looks as if the race reaches yet far into future time, and as if the daily routine might continue its rhythmic regularity for many years to come. Perhaps it is luck that preserves us from accidents and accidental infections; no doubt it is good living that keeps our resistance at a high mark; but perhaps it is destiny that casts some into the mold of a Lincoln instead of a Ford.
LET us wish that this kindly good man may have a long series of years yet to continue his useful life, and that his fine example of energy and integrity may stimulate many others to emulate his remarkable career.
President Heber J. Grant By Dr. John H. Taylor of the First Seven Presidents of Seventy
WHENEVER we hear or read of President Grant, we usually find mentioned his splendid quality of determination. When the boys made fun of his baseball playing, calling him "sissy," this made him determine to some day play on the champion team of the territory. To do this, he threw a ball at a mark on the side of a barn so many times that it was necessary for his mother to bind up his arm in order to alleviate the pain, but he kept throwing the ball and in the end became so expert that he accomplished his purpose and became a member of the championship team. When some of his school companions saw his writing and made fun of it, he resolved to some day become a teacher of penmanship at the University of Utah. By constant practice he finally succeeded in doing what he had determined to do. He decided to learn to sing notwithstanding every natural obstacle was against him. By going over and over the songs hundreds and thousands of times, he finally was able to do what he wanted to do. Perhaps that spirit of determination is the reason for his success in life. He was willing to work for the things he wanted and to give the time necessary to accomplish his purpose. This characteristic of determination he got from his mother in a large degree. The story is told that when the bishop came to visit President Grant's mother he noticed pans on the floor to catch the water as it came through the roof. The bishop kindly offered to have the roof repaired as a contribution from the ward but the mother said, "Never mind, bishop, I will be able to take care of that myself and some day when my boy grows up he will build me a new house." Before President Grant was twenty-one years old he had built her a very substantial new home.*
THESE stories, of course, are very wonderful and stimulating to both old and young, but as interesting as this quality is, may I bring to you another side of the character of this wonderful prophet of ours; a side of his life that is not so well known but perhaps is the more beautiful of the two, although one could hardly have existed without the other. We read in the Scriptures that "it is more blessed to give than to receive" and I am quite certain that President Grant has carried with him the spirit of this message and made use of it all the days of his life. Even as a boy he was always desirous of doing something for someone else. He never sought praise for the things that he did but was satisfied and fully compensated by the happiness and joy he *See picture of this house on our cover.
brought into people's lives because of his helpfulness. When President Grant one Christmas heard that a former stenographer was greatly in need of money and that the family home was in jeopardy of being sold because of a mortgage, he wrote to all of his children and told them that while he usually sent them a check for Christmas (and it was always very generous) this year he thought that they could go without it, and he would use the money in helping to save the home of his former secretary; he also invited his children to contribute and help things out, which they did. His generous nature is not confined to the individual but often takes in groups of individuals, companies and industries. He not only does splendid things himself but he seems to exert an influence on other people so that they also want to be generous and helpful. If some institution was in financial trouble and he had friends connected with it, he was the first to head the subscription list with a generous amount in order that the institution might be saved and the stockholders' investments protected. In this line you all know of his love for home industries and how he has been one of the chief exponents of helping to establish them and has given generously of his time and money to accomplish this purpose. When the Contributor, an organ of the M. I. A., was discontinued, President Grant decided that the organization needed a magazine. He, therefore, went out and got subscriptions, donated a large amount himself and helped establish again an M. I. A. Magazine. Not only was he satisfied that the people at home should have the benefit of it but he also thought that the missionaries should have free copies and through his efforts, the missionaries in the field have since that time been supplied with the magazine. One time one of his daughters was telling him about a poor widow who was having rather a hard time. President Grant asked her name. His daughter gave it to him and he said, "I'll send her some money." She said, "But you don't even know her." President Grant said, "That is not necessary, she needs help and I am glad to do it." He has always been that way. Widows, orphans and men who have needed help have been the recipients of his many kindly acts. It was not a question of whether he knew them or not or whether they had been entirely faithful or not, he just loved to do something for them whenever it was possible for him to do so.
HIS generosity extends from the men of high standing to the most humble in the world. He has always been blessed with the ability to accumulate money, but he always wants to share it with other people. If he had wanted to keep it all for himself and his own family, he would be a very rich man but that is no pleasure to him. Money to him is only to be made to use and to help Zion grow and increase and her people to find happiness and comfort. No one will ever know the number of students, artists, and singers who have been befriended and encouraged by a sympathetic interest, as well as by financial assistance. If there ever has been a more generous man in the Church or in the world, in proportion to the money that he had, I do not know his name. Perhaps when his life's work is finished, it will be said about him that he was like Abou Ben Adam, whom he so often quotes, "He loved his fellowmen."
Why Build Monuments? By Mary Grant Judd
ON Sunday morning, September twentieth of this year, a glorious monument was unveiled in an old Mormon cemetery in Nebraska. To our people this spot will ever be "Winter Quarters," though now the small community is known as the town of Florence. This impressive monument is the second piece of sculpture unveiled by the Church in the last year and a half, the statue to the Angel Moroni at the Hill Cumorah being the first. Just what is the mission of these monuments? What can they, so far away from Utah, do for our Church and people? I would answer that each of these splendid works of art declares a particular message to this and future ages, and that, standing as each one does, on a significant spot historically, the full force of that message comes to the beholder with added meaning. This is true not only to our own people, but to those hundreds of other visitors, some of whom come out of curiosity, others in real sympathy and understanding of our feeling towards these sacred spots.
At the last October Conference, Elder Rufus K. Hardy, speaking of his pilgrimage to Winter Quarters, said: "Even in the last two weeks has come to me a testimony of the Gospel which in no other way could come. There, upon that sacred hill, made sacred by the bodies of hundreds who laid down their lives when it was virtually a wilderness, there came from their ashes and their dust a spirit which breathed into the lives of the men and women who attended the exercises, a something which bore to them the divinity of this work in which we are engaged. Surely, I said to myself, this is virtually a whispering spirit from the dead."
Not so long ago the burial ground of the Mormon pioneers at Winter Quarters was a spot where tangled brush and weeds hid from view the few mounds that had not been obliterated with time, an occasional rough stone, but this was all that was left to tell of the more than six hundred refugees who had perished in this "city built over night." Owing, as many of us do, our western heritage to those dauntless pioneers, and deeply touched though we may be by the tragic story of Winter Quarters, how many of our own people, having an hour or more to stop over in Omaha, en route to the East, have taken the trouble to call a taxi and visit this memorable spot? Very few, I dare say, and yet the ride, going pleasantly through a shady park for part of the way, takes only twenty-five minutes each way, and makes a welcome break in the day's travel. And if this soul-stirring spot had not attracted our own people, it had scarcely existed for those outside the Church. Now, through the monument, all that is changed. A guide about Omaha made this statement, "We used to show tourists our city, now we take them out to see the monument."
Overlooking the green hills of the surrounding country, the cemetery stands on a slight eminence. This naturally impressive setting has been enhanced by beautiful landscaping, lawns and evergreens having replaced coarse grass, rank weeds and brush. Many of the trees have been left intact, notably two old sentinels planted by the pioneers, which, we learned at the ceremonies, have been lovingly tended and fenced by the gardener in charge of the place.
Come with me in imagination on that pilgrimage. As you approach the cemetery and pass the small city park you know that you are nearing your destination, for the home occupied by President Brigham Young is pointed out as well as a huge tree, still flourishing, which was planted by that great leader. Alighting from the car you enter the cemetery along a path flanked on either side by stone pillars, on each of which is a bronze plaque impressively carved with the figure of an angel. You pause to read the inscription on the first pillar: "In loving memory of the six thousand devoted pioneers who died on the plains between 1846-1869, The bodies of six hundred of those brave souls were buried in this locality." And then you turn to the pillar on the right, and your spirit is attuned to the uplifting experience in wait for you by these words: "I am the resurrection and the life." "For they shall rest from all their labors here and shall continue their works."—Doc. And Cov. 124:86.
Wending your way up the winding path, you soon glimpse ahead a mass of bronze, which is the monument. And then, with a catch in your throat, you stand before it and feel the full pathos of the sculpture, and of this place which, more and more, will be immortalized by this really great work of art. This, as I understand it, is the mission of the sculptor—to translate into imperishable materials, through purposeful characterization, his own feeling towards some event, that farther and farther though future generations may be from the initial circumstances, they will yet grasp its true purport. In his statue "Winter Quarters," Avard Fairbanks has done this magnificently. It is peculiarly appropriate that this exceptionally talented Latter-day Saint artist should receive the commission to execute the statue, for here, at Winter Quarters, lie buried his great grandfather and grandmother on his mother's side. At the exercises was Avard with his father, who is overjoyed at the success of his son, for which the father is in no small part responsible. An artist of merit himself, John B. Fairbanks recognized, when his son was a mere lad, that the boy had unusual talent. When Avard was thirteen, the father was in New York doing copying at the Metropolitan Museum. He had the boy come to him there although he could not afford to give him the money for lessons. Together they would go to the Metropolitan Museum, the son getting his training from copying as he saw the father doing. Here one day a reporter from the New York Herald discovered the lad, and was so intrigued that a picture of the boy, with his story, was soon decorating the front page of his paper. Avard soon showed that his particular forte was modeling. Still unable to afford lessons he went to the zoo at the Bronx Park in New York City and there modeled the animals from life. These studies were of such worth that through them he won a scholarship in the Art Students League in New York. His father, recognizing the genius of his son, borrowed money to take him to Paris, but after a year's study the World War drove them home. At this time Avard applied to his own State University for a position as teacher, but was refused. However, the University of Oregon accepted him. After years of hard effort and struggle against heavy odds his ability was recognized by the Guggenheim Foundation, and by them he was sent for a year's study in Florence. Since then success has come to him. This comparatively young artist, and father of seven sons, holds four college degrees, one of them being that of Doctor of philosophy, which makes him so far as his family knows, the possessor of the highest degree held by any living artist. He is at present on the faculty of the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor.
"The Tragedy of Winter Quarters," which is one of Avard Fairbanks' outstanding pieces, represents a pioneer father and mother who have just laid away a loved child in a prairie grave. The father's arm is placed protectingly around his wife, but his hand still holds a shovel, mute evidence that his heart-rending task is not yet completed. The wife accepts his protection as she leans towards him, her face almost covered with a loose shawl which one hand grasps while the other is held to her mouth as if to stifle a sob. With fine feeling for restraint the sculptor does not show the open grave distinctly. If you stand at the proper distance to appreciate the monument you would not even know it was there. But when you approach the piece to read the dozen or so inscriptions which have been placed in the wide circular walk surrounding the statuary you discover that directly below the parents is the open grave of their child. Peering down you behold what is just the suggestion of a tiny form. It is then that you seem to almost hear a low moan escape from the throat of the mother.
From this contemplation of grief you are led, through reading the inscriptions referred to above, away from the story told by the monument, away from the tragedy of Winter Quarters to its victory. For, as President Grant announced in his nationwide broadcast which preceded the unveiling, "There was no tragedy here, for tragedy spells defeat and disaster. This was the victory of Winter Quarters, for here were faith and hope and charity raised to their loftiest pinnacle, while greed and selfishness were brought low." Then he went on to say: "We are met here to dedicate a stately memorial to the trials, to the hardships, and to these victories of Winter Quarters. This heroic bronze set up here figures the last sacrifice of loving parents. In their faces is seen the anguish of parting, but in their hearts there are the comfort and solace of a knowledge that this parting is but for time, and that, in the eternity to follow after time will come an eternal life together of peace, joy, and love without ending."
Of the more than a dozen quotations, executed in large bronze letters, and set into the encircling stone about the monument, I have space to include but three here:
From the Bible: "Verily, verily, I say unto you, the hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God; and they that hear shall live."
From the Book of Mormon: "But behold, all things have been done in the wisdom of Him who knoweth all things."
From the Doctrine and Covenants: "For after much tribulation cometh the blessing. Wherefore the day cometh that they shall be crowned with much glory; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand."
Contemplating this work of art, and absorbing its spirit, reading these inscriptions surrounding it, and considering the history of this sacred spot, I doubt if any individual could go from this place the same person who came. Mute sentinel though the monument may be, its very silence is eloquent, for it speaks to the soul.
Relief Society Conference OPENING SESSION September 30 and October 1, 1936 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
THE semi-annual Conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City September 30 and October 1, 1936. There were six sessions. The four Departments covering the formal educational courses were held the first day, in the following order— Teachers' Topic, Theology, Social Service and Literary. These meetings were held in the Assembly Hall, and were attended by a large and enthusiastic gathering of Class Leaders and Stake and Mission Officers. The two sessions of the second day consisted of a meeting for General, Stake and Mission Officers and Board Members, in the Assembly Hall, and a General Session for the public in the Tabernacle.
The following is the attendance at the Officers' Meeting: 107 Stakes and 9 Missions were represented. Mission Presidents 9; Stake Presidents 79; Counselors 115; Secretaries 49; Board Members and Class Leaders 373; Total 625.
The Ushers for the Conference were courteously furnished by the following Stakes—Ensign, Granite, Grant, Highland, Liberty, Salt Lake.
The music was an especially attractive feature. Congregational numbers were led by General Board Music Chairman Ida Peterson Beal, accompanied by Janet M. Thompson. The Singing Mothers, under the direction of Charlotte O. Sackett, were, as usual, outstanding, and were assisted by the following artists: Alta B. Cassity, Frank W. Asper, William M. Hardiman, Alvin Keddington, Bessie Marley, Margaret S. Hewlett, Inez Robinson Preece, Dorothy Rosebraugh and associates. President Louise Y. Robison presided at all sessions, with Counselor Kate M. Barker, Chairman of the General Board Educational Program, conducting the Department Meetings.
GREETINGS President Louise Y. Robison
"TODAY all our sessions will be devoted to the work of Class Leaders. It is a glorious privilege to be called to teach—not merely to tell things which one knows, but to influence people to have higher, more stimulating thoughts. Ideas have power. In the end, right ideas will rule the world and you have the privilege of helping to bring this change about. To have sympathy for those whom you teach, to prayerfully understand their needs and to earnestly try to help, gives to the Class Leader a richer, fuller life—a life worth sharing. A leader in Relief Society must have unusual qualifications. Scholastic training, although very important, is not sufficient. High schools and colleges can supply this, but Latter-day Saints, in addition to educational training, should have a message which is distinctly a spiritual one, which should be incorporated in every lesson and story. Not only should words be inspired, but the lives of Leaders must conform to the ideals and standards of our Church, if we would have influence with those whom we teach.
"No man can tell what trend or bent His life to his neighbor's creed has lent."
Let us ever remember the power of prayer, for we know the things of the spirit can be understood only by the Spirit.
TEACHERS' TOPIC DEPARTMENT Amy W. Evans, Acting Chairman
THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR AND THEIR APPLICATION TO DAILY LIFE President David O. McKay
PRESIDENT ROBISON, Members of the General Board and Sisters of the Relief Society:
A word which connotes the sweetest, most precious thing in life is "Mother." One of the most encouraging promises ever given to people who love service, is that made by the Savior in these words, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." It is because the Relief Societies of the Church include generally our mothers, and because they are devoted to the service of God's children, that this organization merits first place among the auxiliaries of the Church of Jesus Christ.
I grew to manhood before I realized the significance of the service that is rendered by our sisters in this Church. In fact I had to go on my first mission before I had a glimpse of the magnitude and beauty of the service that is rendered by our sisters of the Relief Society. It is with the feeling of appreciation and gratitude that I stand before you this morning, and I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may prompt what I have to say, that it may be applicable and helpful to the teaching work of this great organization. My subject has been announced— "The Parables of the Savior and Their Application to Daily Life." I am informed that the application of Jesus' parables will be your message for the coming year as you go from house to house teaching, encouraging, blessing, administering to the Church; for your organization comprehends the entire Church.
A PARABLE is a religious allegory. "An allegory is setting forth of a subject under the guise of another subject, or of a suggested likeness." The word "parable" comes from the Greek, and means a setting side by side—a comparison. If I say "he is like a lion," I make a comparison. A parable, however, eliminates all comparative words such as "as" or "like"; it states the comparison as if it were an actual fact, but always has a religious significance. The use of the parable is a most effective means of teaching religious truth. It conveys to the listener or reader just what he or she is capable of comprehending— note that. That is why the Savior uses it so freely. He spoke in parables at one time in order that, so he said, some "having eyes may see not, and having ears may hear not." He knew that there were others who were sufficiently spiritually minded to comprehend the significance of the spiritual truth which He gave, but to some it would appear merely a story, denoting characters and incidents narrated therein. To another, more enlightened, it will connote fundamental, glorious principles of faith and conduct. Thus, the parable "is suited alike to simple and learned. The variety of its imagery charms many classes and many minds, teaching all to find divine truth in common things."
THE bible dictionary draws a clear distinction between the interpretation of a parable and the application of a parable. We are going to consider this morning the application, but we must keep in mind the difference between the interpretation and the application, and you teachers would do well to keep that in mind when you present these parables during the coming year. "The only true interpretation of a parable is the meaning which it conveyed or was meant to convey when first spoken. The application of a parable may be infinitely varied in every age and circumstance. In many cases, too, the meaning grows and deepens by the lessons of history and by the teachings of science."
Let us illustrate that. In one parable in Luke (it is also given in Matthew), we have "A House Divided Against Itself." You may all have it in mind, but let me read it quickly:
"But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow doth not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub the prince of the devils. "And Jesus knew their thoughts, and said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and every city or house divided against itself shall not stand: "And if Satan cast out Satan, he is divided against himself; how shall then his kingdom stand? "And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your children cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges. "But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God is come unto you. "Or else how can one enter into a strong man's house, and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong man? And then he will spoil his house. "He that is not with me is against me; and he that gathereth not with me scattereth abroad."—Matthew 12:24-30.
Now the interpretation of that parable takes us right back to the scene in which it was given. Jesus had performed a miracle; the Pharisees condemned him, and in order to justify their condemnation accused Him of being a prince of devils in casting out devils. "Why," he said, "should a devil try to cast out a devil? A house divided against itself cannot stand." And so He rebuked them, confounded them from their own mouths.
Now the application—The parable may be applied even today, over nineteen hundred years after it was spoken. For example, if members of an organization begin to fight one another, then the power of the organization is weakened. We may apply it in political circles, in a Ward, we may apply it in a household—a house divided against itself cannot stand. We may apply it to a father and mother disagreeing before their children. It is a universal lesson which can be applied in all ages, though the interpretation may take us back to the scene nineteen hundred years ago.
I have made a list of the principal parables of Jesus. I have listed forty:
The wise and foolish builders—Matt. 7: 24-27; Luke 6:47-49. Two debtors—Luke 7:41-47. New cloth on the old garment—Matt. 9: 16; Mark 2:21; Luke 5:36. New wine in old wine-skins—Matt. 9:17; Mark 2:22; Luke 5:37-39. House divided against itself—Matt. 12: 25-29; Mark 3:23-27; Luke 11:17-22. Rich fool—Luke 12:16-21. Servants waiting for their lord—Luke 12:35-40. Barren fig tree—Luke 13:6-9. Sower—Matt. 13:3-9, 18-23; Mark 4:1-9, 14-20; Luke 8:4-8, 11-15. Tares—Matt. 13:24-30, 36-43. Seed growing secretly—Mark 4:26-29. Mustard seed—Matt. 13:31, 32; Mark 4: 30-32; Luke 13:18, 19. Leaven—Matt. 13:33; Luke 13:20, 21. Hidden treasure—Matt. 13:44. Pearl of great price—Matt. 13:45, 46. Drag net—Matt. 13:47-50. Unmerciful servant—Matt 18:23-35. Good Samaritan—Luke 10:30-37. Friend at midnight—Luke 11:5-8. Good Shepherd—John 10:1-16. Great supper—Luke 14:15-24. Lost sheep—Matt. 18:12-14; Luke 15:3-7. Lost piece of money—Luke 15:8-10. Prodigal and his brother—Luke 15:11-32. Unjust steward—Luke 16:1-9. Rich man and Lazarus—Luke 16:19-31. Importunate widow—Luke 18:1-8. Pharisee and publican—Luke 18:9-14. Laborers in the vineyard—Matt. 20:1-16. Pounds—Luke 19:11-27. Two sons—Matt. 21:28-32. Wicked husbandmen—Matt. 21:33-44; Mark 12:1-12; Luke 20:9-18. Marriage of the king's son—Matt. 22:1-14. Fig tree leafing—Matt. 24:32, 33; Mark 13:28-29. Man taking a far journey—Mark 13:34-37. Ten virgins—Matt. 25:1-13. Talents—Matt. 25:14-30. The grain of wheat—John 12:24. Vine—John 15:1-8.
I have also here the list of the parables which are peculiar to each evangelist, i.e., Mark has included some parables which are not mentioned of Matthew, Luke or John. I am going to read these for you:
St. Matthew The Tares. The Hidden Treasure. The Pearl of Great Price. The Drag Net. The Unmerciful Servant. The Laborers in the Vineyard. The Two Sons. The Marriage of the King's Son. The Ten Virgins. The Talents.
St. Mark The Seed Growing Secretly.
St. Luke The Two Debtors. The Good Samaritan. The Importunate Friend. The Rich Fool. The Barren Fig Tree. The Lost Piece of Silver. The Prodigal Son. The Unjust Steward. Dives and Lazarus. The Pharisee and Publican. The Ten Pieces of Money. NOW, it is apparent that we can take only a few of these to see how they may be applied in daily life. Let me preface what I say with this thought, even at the expense of repetition-—that a parable contains a universal truth, and it is that truth which is applicable throughout the ages. I shall say no more about the interpretation, but emphasize the application. Let me now take three parables which you will find in Luke, Chapter 15. It starts out thus: "And he spake this parable unto them, saying, "What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it?" I will not read the entire parable; you know how they rejoiced when they did find it. 692 "Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it?" And having found it she calls in the neighbors, and rejoices, and so on. Third, He said: "A certain man had two sons: "And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. "And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. "And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want. "And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. "And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave unto him. "And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger! "T will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, "And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants." You know the story of how he returned home and was welcomed. What application may we make of this —several—but here is one. We are all teachers, and we are parents, and we have boys and girls and some of them are indifferent to religious things, they are indifferent towards their parents, and so on, but there is not one of them who cannot be reached if we approach him in the right way. I may not be able to do it, you may not, but somebody may, and I believe in these parables we have a guide to the method of reaching those who are wayward, not only in the home but in the Church, in the Relief Society, Sunday School, Priesthood Quorums. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Here are three persons and things which got lost. First, the lost sheep. He had wandered from the fold seeking a legitimate living, and did not do wrong, he was so eager upon getting that which his body needed, that he unconsciously, not wilfully, wandered so far away from the flock that when darkness came he could not be found, and was lost. Keep that in mind. The second is a lifeless coin, not responsible for its acts. It gets lost, but through carelessness of another. The third deliberately chooses the riotous living, and he leaves home and comes to starvation and sorrow. Now there are three ways in which people become indifferent and sin. There is the young man who is engrossed in business, he is thoroughly wrapped up in it, it is the means by which he may accumulate wealth, and he has lost interest in the Church; he has not time to go to his quorum, but he is not a sinful man, his interests are in business, and if I want to bring him back I must approach him in that business field. Don't you see it would be wrong for me to condemn him for doing something which is legitimate? His indifference in the Church is not due to sinfulness. Here is another boy, (and I have. One in mind who is on the downward track )—he is not interested in business, he does not know what to do, he has not chosen his vocation. Why is he indifferent? His mother died when he was only six years of age. His father is smoking, drinking and living a careless life. The day-school teachers are indifferent as to his attendance in that little town in which he lives, and so he does not even go to school more than three or four months in the year. The Sunday School teacher has never visited his home, and is, thoughtlessly, indifferent whether the boy attends Sunday RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE School or not. So there is a lost coin, lost because of the indifference of somebody else. What he needs is love, kindness and somebody to show an interest in him. And here is the third who is taking to his smoking, drinking, loss of morality and lives a riotous life. I am afraid we cannot reach him until, like the prodigal son, he finds himself, and we must help him to find himself. To bring him back or convert him, we shall just have to say, "My boy, don't you see where this is leading you?" But, he must find hunself, and come back and say, "Father, I have sinned." There are your three applications. They will be applicable to any quorum, any organization in this Church. Let us take another. The sower went forth to sow, and the seeds fell in stony places; other seeds fell on thin soil, and sprang up and died; but some seeds fell in rich soil, and produced one hundred fold. There is the interpretation, what about the application? The seed is the Word of God in any dispensation in any time. The Bible contains that word —the New Testament, the Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants. But sometimes that seed falls in minds that have not the background of religion. They are in school five days a week, and they are thinking about things which are really contradictory to the truths of religion, and so when you say something to them about religion in the home or Sunday School, it just dies, is choked out. They go back to school and find that prayer is ridiculed (I speak knowingly). Seeds of doubt are planted in the hearts of the youth. Some of the seeds fall among thorns and are choked out. What are these thorns? The Bible tells us the tares of the world, deceitfulness 693 of riches, lust of other things. Luke names three—tares, riches and pleasures of life. Seeds of truth fall among people who are interested in these things, and are choked out. That leads us to another parable which should be applied, and that is the Parable of the Tares. A man went out and sowed his seed and expected a good harvest, but at night an enemy came and sowed weeds or tares right in the midst of the corn, so that when the crops grew there were the tares and weeds right with the corn. The application here is wonderful, I should like to give it to the whole Church. There are tares in the Church, indifferent, not sinful people, who deal unjustly and unrighteously with their neighbors. For example, we received a letter at the President's Office the other day naming a certain man, saying, "If you do not handle him you may take my name, and the names of my children, off the Church records."" What is the writer of that letter doing, even if his accusation be true? He is looking at a tare, and he forgets this, that Ananias and Sapphira were members of the primitive church; Judas was even a member of the Council of the Twelve. It is folly to say to the President of the Church or to say to the Presidency of the Relief Society, '""You remove that man, or you remove that woman, or else I will stop coming to Church." The Savior said no, do not pull up the tares or you will destroy the corn; let them grow together and in the time of harvest bind your tares to be burned and harvest your good crop. O, what a beautiful message! Again, consider the parable of The Hidden Treasure. A man was farming and found that hidden treasure, the greatest of all things, and sacrificed everything for it. Sometimes people are absorbed in getting the gain of the world and lose sight 694 of that treasure which is hidden right before them. "For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" Then there is the parable of the foolish man—the rich fool. He said, My harvests are so great that my barns and granaries will not contain them. I will tell you what I will do. I will tear down the old granaries and barns and build greater, more spacious granaries, more extensive barns. The Savior said, "Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee." That is called "The Parable of the Rich Fool." His aims were no higher than the beasts of the field. God had given him these things, and he did not even pay his tithing or express his appreciation, but said, "I am going to take these things for my own.' In keeping with that is the parable of the Wedding Garment. A certain king had made a great wedding feast for his son, and many were invited, and there was one there without a wedding garment, and the host said, "Why are you here without a wedding garment? Take him and bind him, and cast him into outer darkness." It seems harsh, doesn't it? But it is not when we think of the application. We are invited into Christ's Church, with Christ at the head, those who are there possessing pure characters. One whose character is not pure is not fit for that company, and of his own volition he will find himself eager to escape and get out somewhere else where he will be more in harmony with his surroundings. The wedding garment is a pure, spotless character. Teachers, you can carry that into every home. The parable of "The Good Samaritan"' I will pass because I see you have that on the program, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE application of which is that a right example will do more to benefit the world than high professions. The good neighbor is he who performs neighborly acts. The "Laborers in the Vineyard" will probably be difficult for some of you to explain. You will remember that the men were hired for so much in the morning, and were placed in the vineyard. About noon the owner went out and hired more men and paid them a stipulated amount, and on the eleventh hour he found some more and brought them in, though they worked only one hour, yet he paid them the same as those who had worked all day. That does not seem fair, and those who had worked all day protested, and said, We have worked all day, and you are giving to these men who worked for only one hour as much: as you are giving us. Do you remember what the owner of the vineyard said? Have you not received all that I promised you? They had received full compensation for what they had given. If I wish to pay these men the same as you, are you deprived of any blessing? They would have to say "No." What was the lesson Jesus wished to teach? That those who are prompted by selfishness receive pay for only that which they give, but those who were hired last would have been as willing to serve all day but did not have the opportunity. They accepted the call with appreciation and gratitude and willingness to serve, and God, who rewards by the heart, rewarded them even more than He rewarded those who entered into it selfishly. There is a guide for you teachers and Bishops in this Church Security plan. You do not know how to discriminate between those who merit assistance and those who do not. There are some whom you say are not worthy of help. Are they willing RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE to cooperate with you? Are they willing to come in here and help? If so, let them give, but if they sit by, find fault and claim something is due them, then you may judge accordingly. Finally as an illustration, I am going to give the parable of the two sons. The father said to one son, "Will you please do this," and he said, "I will not," but afterwards he did it. He said to the second son, "Will you do this work," and he said, "I will," but he failed to do it. Which of these two sons deserved the reward? That was the parable. What is the application? That there is virtue in doing, not in promising. It is the doing that the Lord wants, not the mere promise. Let me quote, as a summary of this latest parable which I have given, this expression in verse. It is applicable to all of us in the Church: "T'd rather see a sermon than hear one any day. I'd rather one would walk with me than merely point the way. The eye's a better pupil and more willing than the ear, Fine council is confusing, but examples' always clear. And best of all the preachers are the ones who live their creeds. For to see good put in action is what everybody needs. "I soon can learn to do it, if you'll let me see it done. 695 I can watch your hands in action, but your tongue may too fast run. And your lecture you deliver may be wise and true, But I'd rather get my lessons by observing what you do. For I might misunderstand you in the high advice you give But there's no misunderstanding how you act and how you live." "Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: "And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock. "And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: "And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell: and great was the fall of it." In conclusion I want to bear you my witness that the teachings of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, contain the true philosophy of living. I make no exception, I love them. There are men who say they are not applicable to this day. They are as applicable today as they were when He spake them, and because they contain eternal truths they will be applicable through all time. God help us to understand these eternal truths, and may He give us power to live them I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. "THE PARABLE OF THE Good SAMARITAN" Mrs. Ida F, Nielsen, Shelley Stake WHENEVER Jesus wanted to impress a truth on the minds of the people he did it by telling a story. These stories were called parables. One day while he was teaching the people he saw a fine opportunity to teach one of God's commandments in a way that would never leave the minds of the multitude gathered there, one of the great saving principles of his Gospel, a principle that 696 the whole world is sadly in need of today, is contained in the great commandment, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." When we hear those words we wonder as those people must have wondered, who is my neighbor? Is it the family next door? Or is it only those with whom I like best to associate? The teachings of our Savior point the way for us in this problem. The beautiful parable of the Good Samaritan clearly shows us what our attitude should be. True happiness comes only through service. The thrill of a good deed done to another not only lightens the load of a neighbor but brings peace and happiness into our own lives. And when we perform any little service for another, even if it is just a word of encouragement in time of need, we are being a neighbor to them whether they live near or far, and whether they are lowly in the sight of man or have reached the top of the ladder of success. I can imagine as people listened to the words of our Savior they would fall into the habit of calling him the teacher. One day while he was teaching the multitude, a learned man stood up in the crowd and asked, "Teacher, what shall I do to win. Eternal life?' And Jesus answered, "What do the Scriptures say?" And the man replied, "Love God with all your heart, and your neighbor as yourself." Then Jesus said, "Do that and you will win Eternal Life." But the questioner, wishing to justify himself, asked, "Who is my neighbor?" In answer Jesus told the story of the Good Samaritan. So often we pass our neighbors by when they need our help, too busy with our own problems to stop and give even a word of encouragement to neighbors in trouble when just a kindly smile or a pat on the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE back might be the very stimulus they need to meet the trials before them and send them on their way rejoicing. I have a neighbor who lives just a few short miles through the fields from the ranch which is home to me. Her name is Agnes Just Reid and she wrote this little poem which lightens my load every time I read lt: "Across the fields lives my neighbor, I seldom see her but I rejoice that she is there. Out towards the sunrise I see the smoke from her chimney And she sees mine, silhouetted against the evening sky. I know when the apple trees bloom in her orchard,; I know when the grain in the lowlands is ready for the reapers, She, too, knows these same things about me; I know that when trouble comes to me, she will be the first to share it, She is my strength! She points the way to God— She is my neighbor." We have such a wonderful opportunity at this particular time to put into practical use the message of the parable of the Good Samaritan by adhering to the council of those in authority over us and doing all in our power to make the Church Security Program a living monument to the teachings of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. And Oh, the joy and happiness that will come to us in the knowledge that we have been given the privilege of supplying the right kind of food to those less fortunate than we, that we, in our own weak way have helped to clothe the needy, that through our efforts some child may be given the chance RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE to develop physically, mentally and spiritually. Truly we can say as Emily Dickinson has said, "If I can stop one heart from breaking 697 I shall not live in vain; If I can ease one life the aching Or cool one pain, Or help one fainting robin, Unto his nest again, I shall not live in vain." "Tar PARABLE OF THE GOOD SAMARITAN" DISCUSSED FROM THE VIEWPOINT OF THE VISITING TEACHERS Mrs. E. D. Sorensen, Bonneville Stake "THE story of the Good Samaritan embodies the very principle for which the Prophet organized Relief Society—to seek those in need. Due to the variety of problems a visiting teacher encounters in each home, it is necessary that she be resourceful and fully equipped to deliver her message successfully to each individual. In introducing her topic she must choose some method which will arouse general interest in her subject and one which the listener can associate with her own experience. Successful teachers have found that the most satisfactory method of filling these two requirements is by an example—in other words a story—simple and direct which will illustrate clearly the topic they wish to put over. Everyone loves a story—and this will immediately arouse the listener's curiosity and interest which is the first step in putting over the lesson. Stories arouse interest because they deal with everyday experience, things which could happen to anyone, and with very little difficulty one can find very fine examples which illustrate clearly the lessons which we, as Visiting Teachers, must take to the homes. There are many tales or fables which illustrate the story of the Good Samaritan. These are familiar to all, and may recall to the listener's mind a similar experience where she had an opportunity to do a good deed to some one; or it may suggest to her mind some kindness or good deed which she may be able to perform this day. Therefore, by associating the lessons with problems each one of us may meet, will instill a desire to follow the example of the figure in the story. Each one of us can find peace and joy in kindness to others. THEOLOGY DEPARTMENT Lotta Paul Baxter, Chairman "THE DIVINE SPIRIT IN OUR THEOLOGY” Annie Wells Cannon, Member of the General Board text this morning will be from Luke 17:21, ''Neither shall they say lo here! Or lo there! For, behold, the spirit of God is within you." The ministry of the Savior is our subject for the lessons for this year. It is the most wonderful story in the world, for Jesus was the greatest teacher in all history, the most perfect exemplar. Knowing himself to be the King of Kings, yet he was the 698 humblest of all men. In all humility he taught that "He who -is least: among you all, the same shall be greatest." In approaching our task let us endeavor to have the "spirit of God within us," with this humble attitude and the philosophy that beneath the unrest and materialism that surrounds us there is still among us the best life in the world a steadfast faith that we will be able to counter all skepticism and succeed in the work. What happiness it will be to you, if sometime someone will say, "She was my teacher and she has been an inspiration to me all my life." Nothing quickens the soul of man like the divine Spirit. It helps along every path in life and it is ours for the asking, for Jesus said, "Ask and it shall be given you." Prayer is the key, and faith the door by which one may enter into the richness of wisdom, knowledge and understanding. This is our pearl of great price. The first and best help in our work is naturally a careful reading of the gospels as told by Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. Aside from the good this will do you as teachers, it will also give you a better and clearer RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE appreciation of the works of the great masters in art and literature with which you may enrich your lessons. In seeking to enrich your lessons by secular reading, use pictures or music, the best that can be found. Men have given years of thought and endeavor to produce a single canvas, oratorio, book or poem which would portray their ideal conception of the personality and majesty of the Lord Jesus. It is my belief that these great master minds have approached their work with an absolute faith and clean hearts, even as the poet, Edwin Arnold, said in his poem, "The Light of the World," when the Sovereign voice inspired him to write, that he felt himself "Not meet, one word of that sweet speaking to repeat," and the voice said, "Wash thy lips clean and sing." So must it have been with all who have written, sung or painted of the Master—so must it be with those who teach. In your teaching avoid argument, have the Spirit of God within you; "study to show thyself approved of God, a worker that needeth not to be ashamed" and there will be happiness in your work and joy in your soul. THE VALUE OF THE GOSPEL TO ZION'S YOUTH Donna D. Sorensen, Member of the General Board SAYS one of our historians: "The life of Jesus Christ must ever remain the noblest and most fruitful study for all men of every age" and from the gospels, "meaning the good news of God" we derive almost the whole of our knowledge of the life and teachings of Jesus. I should list the paramount value of the gospels to Zion's youth to be, first of all, a source for the promoting of an individual testimony. In these great books all may come to a more complete understanding of our Father and his love for us. We have also in the gospels that which holds a hope for man and is an inspiration to righteousness, for all four of the books contain predictions of Jesus concerning his own death and resurrection and all four of the writers speak of the actuality of Christ's resurrection. Here is indeed something to stir the souls of men and RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE quicken the gift of faith and an answer to that age-old question, "If a man die, shall he live again?" As a second value of the gospels I should list: their influence in the shaping of a guiding philosophy of life. Many are called upon to live their lives under situations that call for constant patience, endurance, resistance and fortitude. The life of the Master sounds a courageous call to all of us to judge not, to be merciful, to lose our life that we may find it. Here in the gospels is that information which all are seeking: the way to treat our fellowman; the knowledge which should direct and temper every act. Here we may gain the proper perspective that will help us to see things now as they will seem forever, to discriminate between things that are little and things that are big before it is too late. A third value of a knowledge of the gospels would rest in their literary 699 excellence. Intent as Matthew, Mark, Luke and John were upon the truths they sought to utter they expressed themselves in beautiful language. True, the story of Jesus as contained in the gospels, is simply told and is not too difficult for even the less-educated to read, neither is it less satisfying in its literary excellence to the best educated. "Many have since attempted to tell the same story, adorning and -elaborating it with all the resources of literary skill. Yet we always fall back on the gospel narrative not only because it is the earliest but because it is incomparably the best." Much of the great literature of the world contains Biblical allusions and much of it is based on scriptural themes. To understand the literature of the gospels is to approach other great literature with a more understanding heart. SOCIAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT Emma A. Empey, Chairman THE DEVELOPMENT OF SPIRITUALITY THROUGH THE SOCIAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT Amy Brown Lyman, Counselor, Read by Emeline Y. Nebeker, of the General Board IN social service work there are two fields of action; one is helping individuals who are already in trouble, out of their trouble and is thus curative in its nature; the other is helping to keep people out of trouble. Relief Society is interested in both these fields. It gives help to families and individuals in need through its welfare work which is carried on in all the wards; and it has instituted a department of study in Social Problems and allied subjects with the object of helping its members to understand their social surroundings and to increase their knowledge of human relationships so they as a group may be better able to plan, and to give better service to humanity and to be vigorous, effective workers in preventive and constructive work. Believing that the Glory of God is intelligence, Latter-day Saints have always fostered education; and believing in a life beyond the grave where we take with us all that we learn here, they have sensed the 700 importance of placing emphasis on those things which are spiritual in nature and permanent in value. The object of the Relief Society courses of study, as I see them, is to help its members to better their own lives and the lives of others; to teach them how to live as fully and completely as possible; to furnish them opportunity for the gaining of knowledge and culture, opportunity for character education, and most important of all, for spiritual development. These objectives can be obtained in any and all of our educational departments. But special attention is called to our Social Service lesson where the particular field of study for this year is Sociology. And what is Sociology? Sociology is defined as the study of human relations. It is a combination of economics and philanthrophy and is the foundation for effective social work and sound citizenship. It is a comparatively new study. Not until 1850 did people begin to seriously study human relations, and it was no doubt taken up with the hope of finding out what was the matter with almost everything. It was not until 1890, however, that Sociology as a subject was placed in the college curriculum. Today this subject is taught in every high school and college in the land, and every student is required to take it. The text used in Relief Society is divided into three parts: Trends in American Society; Major Social Problems; and Major Civic Problems. Under the first division is discussed among other things the drift to the cities, transportation, the spread of the machine process, the transformation of the home. Under the second division we have the family, child welfare education, crime, poverty, disease, etc. Under the third division we have civic problems RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE such as: willing obedience to law; promotion of peace among nations; the labor-capital struggle; the support of government; the place of the political party; the citizen as a voter. Why should not women study these important subjects? Pure religion and true social service are so closely related that they seem almost one and the same thing. The Scriptures are replete with passages confirming this thesis. They tell us that faith without works is dead and that works without faith are inadequate. To quote James, "Show me your faith without works and I will show you my faith by my works." The 2nd great commandment says: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." Another passage says: "If we love not our brother whom we have seen, how can we love God whom we have not seen?" To save and rescue human beings is the strongest motive one can conceive, and this is a religious ideal. It is one of the ideals set up by the Prophet Joseph Smith for the Relief Society. It is also the chief object of social work. And in the process of saving and rescuing human beings, both those who help and those who are helped are stimulated, lifted up, purified and spiritualized. The closest relationship between religion and human welfare (or charity) has existed from the beginning of time, and the influence of religion upon the benevolent instincts of mankind is apparent in any study of either religion or charity. The saying of the Savior, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me," especially inspires all Christians to be truly charitable and helpful. Religion with its inspiration and enthusiasm touches the essential human values in ourselves and in others, the sacredness of human life, the divine qualities in every man— his fundamental value and rights. It stimulates the study of human problems and human welfare work itself, which latter in a large degree is work with human souls. And in our own studies and our own work we constantly pay tribute to the spiritual values. The Church as an institution has a passion for righteousness, a feeling for the kinship of mankind, a recognition of human brotherhood; and it can instill in the individual a passion for righteousness that will not only be the contributing factor in his own life, but the contributing factor in inspiring him to human helpfulness.
Shaler Matthews, former dean of the Divinity School of the University of Chicago, in speaking of the helpfulness of churches to social service said that those communities without churches seldom establish welfare agencies at all and are never so forward looking regarding social justice as those which do. On the other hand, benevolence and "good works" lead back to religion. I am convinced that those who study and work for the imparting of knowledge, who work for the relief of human distress, for the healing of disease, for the building up of universal standards of health, have confidence in the essential divinity of every man. Their devotion proves this.
UNION MEETING SUGGESTIONS Belle S. Spafford
HOW to conduct a successful department at Union Meeting is of importance to every Stake Social Service class leader. Success should be measured in terms of "helpfulness to the Ward class leaders." How to be most helpful must be largely determined by the Stake Leader herself as she best knows the needs, interests, abilities, etc., of the ward membership of her Stake as well as those of the Ward class leaders with whom she is working. We are all agreed, however, that the Union Meeting should be essentially a preparation or study period. It should do more than merely present the material contained in the magazine. It should first give the class members a vision of the course in its entirety and convert them to the value of such a course in the educational program. Then the relationship of the lesson in hand to the course as a whole must be decided upon. The Union Meeting may guide to more purposeful teaching by determining clearly defined immediate objectives. Recognizing the fact that the magazine material is the groundwork for our lesson and must be given the most respectful consideration, still we also recognize that "the effective teacher must have accessible more material than can be found in the magazine." The Stake Leader may guide the class toward additional authoritative and available references. Where a Stake Leader has access to a reference not available to her class it is often advisable to copy and distribute quotations from that reference. We all appreciate the importance of securing and maintaining attention in the learning process. We know this is best accomplished through interest. Consideration may be given to this very important phase of teaching. Good points of contact, visual aids, illustrative stories, striking quotations, etc., may be presented. It is sometimes necessary to assist in organization of lesson material. This may be accomplished in various ways, the most common method probably being the placing of outlines in the hands of the class. This is not always necessary or desirable, neither is it to be expected that when outlines are given the Ward Leaders will follow them tenaciously. However, they often prove helpful in the selection and logical arrangement of subject matter. The preparation of the Stake Leader should be extensive and intensive enough to enable her to anticipate turns the lesson might take or problems which might arise in presenting it, that would tend to defeat the purpose of the lesson. She should be qualified to fortify the class to adequately cope with these. Guidance may also be given in how best to present the lesson in the ward; to secure class participation; to properly make assignments, etc.
The success of the Union Meeting is not entirely dependent upon the Stake Leader. The Ward Leader has a definite responsibility. She should come to Union Meeting thoroughly familiar with the lesson as contained in the magazine. She should be willing and prepared to make helpful contributions. The Stake Leader should provide opportunity for these contributions. All lessons do not lend themselves to the same type of Union Meeting preparation, neither do all Ward class leaders require the same kind of help. A great responsibility rests with the Stake Leader, not only in having an extensive knowledge of the subject matter with which she is working and the underlying principles of good teaching, but also in knowing the women who constitute her class. Their attitudes, interests, needs, and abilities must guide her in the conduct of her department.
"It is through the successful conduct of the Union Meeting Department that the Stake Board worker justifies her elevation from a position of usefulness in the Ward to one of broader influence in the Stake."
LITERARY DEPARTMENT Marcia K. Howells, Chairman
BIOGRAPHY Mary C. Kimball
OUR literary course for this year will be the study of three great biographies—Alice Freeman Palmer, Julia Ward Howe and Abraham Lincoln. Because people are so interesting, biography has a great hold upon readers. Biographical interest is as ancient as history. The old men of a tribe delighted in orally rehearsing the deeds of their ancestors, also of their living heroes, and these stories were handed down from generation to generation. Biography fundamentally is to perpetuate the memory of a life. The truths of one's life are not simple things. Life is made up of days, months and years and during each the personality alters. The biographer must catch the subtle changes that go on and reveal them to the readers.
While the art of biography goes back nearly 2,000 years, it is generally regarded as being merely in its infancy. For long periods of time, no worthy biography was produced, and there are only a few life stories today that all critics rank as great. Plutarch's Lives will ever form absorbing reading for those who would make biographical study. For hundreds of years after this great Greek writer, no biographer stands out. Benvenuto Cellini holds a prominent place in biographical study, and many critics have rated his work as one of the greatest autobiographies in the world. Pepys' Diary also holds a high place. His description of the Great Fire and the Great Plague, of first nights, of players on the stage, of the nobility in the boxes, the bits of gossip that came to his ears, will ever be intriguing. Boswell's Life of Johnson is of the highest rank. Although Boswell was but 23 years old and Johnson 54 when they first met, they became the closest of friends and this biographer understood his hero thoroughly. He loved and admired him, cherished his virtues and was not blind to his faults. Painstaking in his effort for accuracy, he would often run half over London to fix a date correctly. Benjamin Franklin's Autobiography, published in 1791, is rated as America's greatest contribution in this line.
The modern biographer goes at his task scientifically. He rids himself of all pre-conceived notions, searches in every possible field for information, then portrays his subject as he sees him. The old biography tended to be photographic, portraying the subject as he looked. Modern biography attempts to paint him as he is. The old deification that may be noticed in the biographies of the saints and of many other characters is lacking in this new biography.
Maurois well says that the characteristics of modern biography are: first, "the courageous search for truth," second, "the insistence on the complexity of personality," and third, "the modern reader longs to find in his reading, brothers who share his troubles." The modern writer believes in the evolution of the individual spirit as firmly as he believes in the evolution of the race.
By many critics Gamaliel Bradford is rated among the first of American biographers. He had a marvelous gift in making generalizations; for instance, in his sketch of Woodrow Wilson, after making abundant quotations from the President's own statements, he says, "He knew, he knew, he always knew, for he was a creature of brains." Of Theodore Roosevelt he said, "He killed mosquitoes as if they were lions and lions as if they were mosquitoes."
Lytton Strachey, another modern, delights in his search for the truth of personality. The reading of good biographies is most beneficial. It leaves one a better person. Biography is today competing with fiction as a best seller. Historians delight in it to aid in their field. Readers hail a new book in this line. Many, many today realize that "the proper study of mankind is man."
Suggestions
1. See that the class reads the material in the Magazine and as far as possible the textbook.
2. Make the three lessons on one character a unit. Tie them together by summaries or questions.
3. Get each class member to have a notebook in which she will jot down: "What I enjoyed most in the life of..............." and "Valuable lessons in the life of..........."
4. Every teacher should bring out the development of the character studied. The class should be able to trace how wonderfully radiant was the spirit of Alice Freeman Palmer, how Julia Ward Howe, the aristocrat, became interested in the every-day concerns of ordinary men and women, how exquisitely beautiful and transforming is the life of Abraham Lincoln. Notes could profitably be made where the character shows courage and achievement.
5. Be sure to read some of the finest lines and have as many as will memorize some of them.
6. Make it a point to collect material and file it where it may be readily used. Each ward will be presented with a set of pictures to be used in the lessons on Alice Freeman Palmer and Julia Ward Howe. We know that pictures of Lincoln can easily be secured from papers and magazines. Make a study of these pictures and let them enrich your knowledge of the lives of these people.
ALICE FREEMAN PALMER Alice L. Reynolds
IT was to the work of educating women for the life dawning for them that Alice Freeman Palmer devoted her life. When she was a girl she attended Windsor Academy, and after being graduated from that institution she looked about for a university in which a woman could train. She told her father that she wanted to go to college and he hesitated before he gave his consent because he had only one son and three daughters and he felt if anyone went to college it should be the son. However, Alice promised that if he would send her she would assist in the education of the other children. This promise she kept.
In casting about for a college she selected the University of Michigan as it was the first State university to open its doors to women. She was not prepared to enter, but President James B. Angell took her case under advisement, and after chatting with her a while vouched for her ability. She made good and in 1877 was teaching history in the Saginaw High School. Two years later at the age of 24, she was teaching history at Wellesley, and at 26 she was made President of the institution. In the same year, 1882, she received her Ph. D. from the University of Michigan.
No sooner had she become the administrator of Wellesley than she began to reorganize its courses and make of it a standard college. She provided both feeders and dormitories for the institution to insure its growth. Her discipline was a matter of comment, but she controlled more by her fine personality and love than in any other way. At her invitation Professor George Herbert Palmer of Harvard came to Wellesley to deliver a course of lectures. Soon after he met Miss Freeman socially and later they became engaged. He gave her her ring on her birthday, which put her tact to the test as they dared not let their engagement be known. At Commencement, she told the board of trustees of her engagement and asked to be released. This caused nothing short of a social upheaval. The people interested in Wellesley asserted that no man had a right to marry a woman with her talent for managing and inspiring young women. Her devotion to Wellesley made her feel the criticism keenly. Mr. Palmer insisted that her marriage would give her an opportunity for more work, not less, in her chosen field. In the end a compromise was effected, and they were married at Christmas time. She was at once made Trustee of Wellesley, and also devoted much time to Radcliffe College, and was placed on the Massachusetts Board of Education, a position which she retained until her death.
When the University of Chicago was ready to begin work, it looked about for a suitable woman to be Dean of Women. No one appealed to President Harper except Alice Freeman Palmer. In order to get her, he offered her husband a place on the faculty of the University of Chicago, at a salary of $6,000 a year, and offered Mrs. Palmer the same salary. Mr. Palmer was receiving $4,000 at Harvard. This offer would mean an increase of $8,000 per year to the family budget, but it was rejected. Yet so eager was President Harper to have Mrs. Palmer's services that he arranged to have her come three weeks at the beginning of each term; her assistants carried on in her absence. Finally she went to Europe to enjoy one of those years with her husband that were so satisfying to both of them. While there she died. On her husband's return memorial services were held at Harvard University. Four college presidents paid tribute to this extraordinary woman. Among them were her own President Angell of Michigan, President Eliot of Harvard, and President Hazard of Wellesley. Music was furnished by a group of young women from Wellesley, and a young men's glee club from Harvard.
It was not the important positions Mrs. Palmer held, not the ability with which she was endowed, that marked her for the great woman she was. It was her deep spirituality. She was deeply religious, and nothing revealed this spirituality as did the effect she had on others. Her husband tells us that when she was in a room all eyes were upon her. An eminent scholar wrote: "When I last saw Mrs. Palmer, I was in a hopeless state, caring little for writing. It is a deep regret that her death prevents my putting into her hands the most elaborate and influential book I have ever written and saying as I do it, 'this have I done because you helped me by casual words of encouragement.'" A farmer's wife said of her, "To meet her at the Boxford's station in the morning made the whole day bright. If she passed me in the late afternoon on the long hill, she seemed the fairest object in all that stretch of sweet country."
The quality that lighted up all the qualities of her being appeared to be sympathy, and sympathy has been called the finest of all the qualities that combine in any effective personality. On November 10, 1920, she was elected to the Hall of Fame. One must have been dead ten years to receive election to this Hall, but her personality, always so penetrating and pervading, brought to her this distinction.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN Julia A. F. Lund
ABRAHAM LINCOLN, the "figure of an age," is the life which has been, and is the favorite illustration of those who seek to emphasize the possibilities of American citizenship. A life that cannot be classified —farm boy, backwoodsman, storekeeper, surveyor, lawyer, orator, man of letters, statesman, all these, yes, but something far above and beyond any or all of them. Shall we say the heart of America in its tenderest, sweetest, loftiest expression?
Born in the frontiers of Kentucky, his boyhood spent in Indiana, his maturity reached in Illinois, he was a Southerner by birth and training, a Northerner by sentiment and principle, a Westerner by sympathy and vision. In the very unusual and delightful biography which it is our pleasure and profit to study this year, we trace the forebears of Abraham Lincoln through the colonial years, and the subject of the book, from his birth until he leaves for the White House. "The Prairie Years," as they are most appropriately called, cover all but the last four years of his life, and during these prairie years the man was trained, and the character formed, which types for us one of the best and noblest Americans. The magnificent materials used with such unequalled force were gathered during his prairie years. The books at his command were few but the very best in the world, and he mastered them so thoroughly that they became a part of his very being. Biblical quotations abound in almost everything he wrote. Shakespeare and the Bible were the literary treasures of his frugal home. He was also very fond of Robert Burns. A volume of Pilgrim's Progress, the most beautiful allegory in our language, was among his most prized possessions. He was influenced by the lofty principles as well as the smooth, fine diction of these matchless authors, and his own statements roll forth with the majesty of scriptural utterance. George Washington was the idol of Lincoln's patriotic fervor all through his life, and the example he always sought to follow. Like all great writers, Lincoln saw the glory in the commonplace, and was direct, simple and sincere in his expression. If "brevity be the soul of wit," no man ever lived who exemplified this more perfectly or said more in fewer words. He had a poet's power of expression in his spirituality and the fine shades of meaning in words. The matchless pearls he has left us in his letters and speeches clearly express his love of humanity and his philosophy of life. If we had to select his predominant qualities, we would undoubtedly name justice and mercy. Never did the glory of Lincoln shine brighter than it does in our strife-torn world of today. In answer to the "songs of hate" from all parts of the earth, his words fall like a benediction.
BIRTH OF A SONG Ida Peterson Beal
IN the early days of the Civil War Julia Ward Howe tells of returning from a review of troops near Washington. Her carriage was surrounded and delayed by the marching regiments. She and her companions sang to beguile the tedium of the way, the war songs which everyone was singing in those days, among them—
"John Brown's body lies a-mouldering in the grave, His soul is marching on."
The soldiers liked this song, "Good for you," they cried, and sang the chorus with its rhythmic swing. "Mrs. Howe," said Mr. Clarke, "why do you not write some good words for that stirring tune?" "I have often wished to do so!" she replied.
Waking in the gray of the next morning, as she lay waiting for the dawn, the words came to her.
'Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord."
"She lay perfectly still. Line by line, stanza by stanza the words came sweeping on with the rhythm of marching feet, pauseless, resistless. She saw the long lines swinging into place before her eyes, heard the voice of the nation speaking through her lips. She waited till the voice was silent, till the last line was ended, then sprang from the bed, and groping for pen and paper, scrawled in the gray twilight the "Battle Hymn of the Republic." When she had finished she crept back to bed and as she fell asleep she said to herself, "I like this better than most things I have written."
The poem was published in the Atlantic Monthly in February, 1862. "It was praised on its appearance, but the vicissitudes of the war so engrossed public attention that small heed was taken of literary matters." It found its way to the camps and was sung in chorus by the soldiers. The hymn rapidly made its way. "It was sung, chanted, recited and used in exhortation and prayer on the eve of the battle. It was the word of the hour and the Union armies marched to its swing."
"Among the singers of the 'Battle Hymn' was Chaplain McCabe, the fighting chaplain of the 122nd Ohio Volunteer Infantry. He read the poem in the Atlantic, and was so struck with it that he committed it to memory before rising from his chair. He took it with him to the front and in due time to Libby Prison whither he was sent after being captured at Winchester. Here in the great bare room where hundreds of Northern soldiers were herded together, came one night a rumor of disaster to the Union armies. A great battle, their jailers told them, had been fought a great Confederate victory won. Sadly the Northern men gathered together in groups, sitting or lying on the floor, talking in low tones, wondering how, where, why. Suddenly, one of the negroes who brought food for the prisoners, stopped in passing and whispered to one of the sorrowful groups. The news was false, there had, indeed, been a great battle, but the Union army had won, the Confederates were defeated and scattered. Like a flame the word flashed through the prison. Men leaped to their feet, shouted, embraced one another in a frenzy of joy and triumph, and Chaplain McCabe standing in the middle of the room, lifted up his great voice and sang aloud,
'Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord.'
"Every voice took up the chorus, and Libby Prison rang with the shout of 'Glory, glory, Hallelujah!'"
So this great song was given to us in an hour of inspiration. It has established for itself a fitting place in our group of patriotic songs. Our appreciation of "The Battle Hymn of the Republic," has grown with the years. We gratefully remember Mrs. Howe for her marvelous contribution.
GENERAL AND STAKE OFFICERS' MEETING Thursday, October 1, 1936
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison
MY heart is filled with gratitude this morning to our Father in Heaven that He has permitted us to meet again today. As you know, Sister Amy Brown Lyman has gone to preside over the European Mission Relief Societies, and while we shall miss her, we rejoice that our sisters in Europe will have a member of the General Presidency there to help them with Relief Society. We regret to state that one of our beloved Stake Presidents has passed away since our April Conference— Sister Anna S. Blackham, of the Moroni Stake.
Visiting Teachers' Books: For years it has been the policy of the Relief Society General Board to require that all Visiting Teachers use the report books, and this has been quite an expense to the Wards as the price of the book has been twelve cents per copy. We know it is quite a task for the Wards to raise the necessary funds, so we have decided to present to them their Visiting Teachers' Books free of charge. This will be a gift from the General Board of about Five Thousand Dollars to the Ward Relief Societies throughout the Church.
Pictures for Literary Lessons: Yesterday in the Literary Meeting it was announced that we would have sets of pictures illustrating our literary lessons that would be given to the Stake and Mission Presidents or representatives. There will also be one set for the Stake Board and one for each Ward or Branch. This is another gift from the General Board, and it comes to you with our love.
Membership Cards for 1937: We also have our Membership Cards ready for 1937, and these will be supplied upon request.
Alcohol Education: We have for distribution a limited number of leaflets containing the address given by Judge Oscar W. McConkie, on Alcohol Education. There is a nationwide movement headed by the W. C. T. U., to place Alcohol Education in all of the schools. We are very deeply interested in this, which is not a political matter, but purely a Christian work. We shall be happy if you will give it your support whenever the opportunity presents itself.
Time of Relief Society Meetings: We have had a number of requests for our Relief Society meetings to begin in September and close in May, rather than begin in October and close in June. We have asked, and the majority of the Stakes still desire the nine lessons, and we should like to have these nine lessons used. It is a bit late now for you sisters who wish to begin in September to make this announcement, but in the future you may work to that plan, if you prefer it. We wish, however, that all the Wards in the same Stake begin and close at the same time.
Relief Society Funds: There have been a great many questions asked by the new officers about the difference in the Relief Society General Fund and the Charity Fund. We think that there are some of the organizations who are taking the contributions that are made by the people to the Visiting Teachers, and placing them all in the General Fund. We would rather you would not do this. People who give to the Visiting Teachers usually give for the benefit of the needy, and we would like that used for the Charity Fund. I think you will have an increase in donations if the people know that it is used for the poor. For years we have asked that the Visiting Teachers do not ask for funds, but we think Stake Presidents and Supervisors can work out some plan that will make an appeal to the people, illustrating the needs of the Relief Society. When a Visiting Teacher enters a home, aside from her message, she should include invitations to attend Relief Society meetings, and then it would be quite proper for her to say, "We are having a great many needs in our Ward, and we want to take care of those who require comforts."
We hear frequently of the most distressing cases of deserving people where the common necessities of life are lacking, but usually these can be met when the proper request to the people is made. Do not tell of conditions in your own Wards, but have some appeal that the people may know the need, for Relief Society does take care of the needs of the people.
In some of our Wards and Stakes there have been discrepancies in accounts. It is not because of dishonesty. We have had some very embarrassing situations where the women were perfectly honest, but I believe I will repeat again what I have said before. We suggest that you have your books audited. Your Stake Clerk should audit your Stake, and your Ward Clerk should audit your Ward record books yearly, and when your books are turned over to a new secretary they must be audited so that the new officers will know just the condition of affairs.
Duplication of Officers: There is a great deal of difficulty arising from the duplication of officers. I have lived in a small country town, and I know it takes real ingenuity to get the organizations officered without duplication, but I am wondering if we try hard enough to get inactive people to work. It takes faith, and prayer sometimes, for us to see the possibilities of some of the women who are not working. One of the best pieces of work you can do is to stimulate our sisters to participate in our activities.
Cooperation of Women's Organizations: We are never going to accomplish all we can until the three women's organizations of our Church are working closely together. The closer we work together the more efficient we will be.
Music Institutes: The Church Music Committee has organized a plan for developing music in all our organizations. Letters will go out to those Stakes where they are ready to begin. I think now they are only organized in the Salt Lake district, but as they are ready we will inform you, hoping you can cooperate.
Presidents Urged to Give Attention to Material Sent From Office: We would like you to please notice the communications from the office, rather than those from advertisers. It will save a lot of trouble and postage if you will realize that if there is anything for the benefit of the women, that goes out officially, we will let you know from the General Office. We will appreciate it very much if you will carefully read the instructions which come from the General Board, especially those in reference to the Stake conference-conventions.
Stake Conference - Conventions: We have had some of our conventions held, and have gone to quite a bit of expense and trouble to hold a class leaders' meeting all over the Church in response to requests from the Presidents, who feel the need for this help. We prepared what we consider a very fine program, and sent it out with a General Board member, and in some of the Stakes there were no class leaders to receive it.
Stake Visits to Wards: Some of our new Presidents have wondered how often the Stake Board should visit their Wards. There was one very fine Stake President who said, "We cannot get along very well without visiting our Wards once a month, but we understand the General Board does not approve of this." That is a mistake. We are very glad to have you visit your Wards once a month. This is not compulsory. Where the Wards are scattered hundreds of miles apart it is impossible to do so, but wherever it is possible once a month is not too often. We would advise you to alternate the visits to the Theology, Work and Business, Literature and Social Service Departments, so that you will know the conditions of your Wards in all subjects.
Relief Society Employment Bureau: We have a free employment bureau in the Relief Society, and are very glad to be of service in placing Latter-day Saint girls in good homes, but we would like to have them write in and tell us what their qualifications are before they come to Salt Lake.
Membership: There has been a misunderstanding about our Membership. Names of inactive members are not taken off the roll, they are still members of Relief Society and it is to the credit of the organization to get these inactive members on to the active roll.
Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions: There has been some misunderstanding in reference to the basis of the 100% Magazine subscriptions. We therefore refer you to the material contained in the August, 1936, issue of the Relief Society Magazine, which explains the details covering the 100% subscriptions. This is based on the entire membership of the Relief Society. We had a sister in the office from a very small branch in Wyoming which had been recently organized. I asked her how she was getting along, and she said, "Just splendidly. We have nine members and before I left we had sixteen subscriptions, but we are going to do better than that, we are going to have 200% before the close of the Drive." That is given just as a little stimulation to all of us to put forth our best efforts.
Standard of Entertainment: We want you to have good times, but have them in a way that establishes and upholds the standards of Relief Society. Some of the Wards have just beautiful programs, and some feel that they must do some things that are not quite up to our standard. We do not want our Relief Society women to blacken their faces for a minstrel, nor to make burlesques of any fine ideals.
Committee for Meeting Preparation: A helpful suggestion to Stakes and Wards is to appoint a committee to look after the Stake and Ward places of meeting—see that towels are in the washrooms, and other necessary conveniences are available. The General Board has found such a committee to be very helpful and to add greatly to the comfort of our gatherings.
ORGANIZATIONS AND REORGANIZATIONS General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund
DURING the past year there have been several new organizations and a great number of reorganizations. To those who have served Relief Society so long and so well, President Robison and the General Board desire to extend their hearty thanks, and to those who are entering the field for the first time in the capacity of Stake President, we extend a cordial welcome.
ORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Appointed President May, 1936 Long Beach Pearl C. Miner (Taken from Los Angeles) April, 1936 Pasadena Sadie E. Williams (Taken from Hollywood)
Missions Spanish-American Mrs. O. C. Williams (Taken from Mexican)
REORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Appointed President Sept., 1936 Bear Lake Hazel R. Shepherd Margaret S. Hoge Sept., 1936 Deseret Inez B. Allred Vera S. Hilton August, 1936 Emery Margaret M. Peterson Clara A. Wickman July, 1936 Highland Nellie O. Parker Jennie B. Duffin Sept., 1936 Panguitch Elizabeth W. Henderson Sarah C. Ipson August, 1936 Weber Katherine G. Wright Charlotte Kay
Mission Released Appointed President Czechoslovak Martha Gaeth Martha S. Toronto European Emily T. Merrill Amy Brown Lyman Hawaiian Verna F. Murphy Cassandra D. Bailey Norwegian Vivian C. Knudsen Margaret M. Peterson Samoan Agnes M. Sears Olivia S. Waddoups Tongan Martha E. Wolfgram Evelyn H. Dunn
GUEST SPEAKERS
IN the Officers' Meeting, the Relief Society was highly honored in having as guest speakers President Ruth May Fox, who discussed "How the Relief Society can Strengthen the Y. W. M. I. A." In addition to the deeply spiritual tone so characteristic of Sister Fox, her address was full of practical suggestions of how the organizations can work together in the great program assigned to each by the Church. Another inspirational address was "How the Relief Society can Strengthen the Primary Association," by Assistant Superintendent Edith H. Lambert, who made a most eloquent appeal for cooperation in the interest of children. Miss Myrtle Davidson, Superintendent of the Extension Division, Utah Agricultural College, offered the services of the college County Agents, and expressed appreciation for the work of Relief Society.
THE CHURCH SECURITY PROGRAM President Louise Y. Robison
I AM sorry there has not been a clear understanding on the matter of credit given in Relief Society, but the policy has been, to place no cash value upon used clothing which is donated nor upon bottles of fruit. Make a count of the number of articles and the amount of fruit and enter it as items of history. This has had the approval of the General Authorities, and it has come from Bishop Cannon just this morning. Let me read this. The question we asked, and the answer has been given:
"We have been informed that placing a cash value on all contributions is advocated. The Relief Society has always discouraged this practice. We have instructed our organizations to make a count of the articles of clothing contributed, to count the bottles of fruit and vegetables, but not to place cash value as there is so great a discrepancy in what the Wards throughout the Church consider the value of articles. It has long been recognized that Relief Society funds are to be kept for use within the organization. Instructions to this effect are printed in the Ward and Stake Record Books. We took it up with the General Authorities recently and they have reiterated the statement that the Relief Society funds belong to the Relief Society. We have been extremely sorry to hear that in some places the General Fund and even the Charity Fund has been used this Summer for making quilts, canning fruit, etc. Now sisters, we are all Latter-day Saints, and we are deeply interested in this Church Security Program, and we agree to do everything that is in our power, but it is not helping the Church to take our little means and divert them into another channel. The idea of this Church work is to raise extra funds to take care of the extra needs, it was not to come out of Relief Society. If some of you have your funds depleted, I deeply regret it, but please read your instructions, and remember your Charity Fund cannot be touched, except for charity. Some organizations have turned everything they have into the Social Security supplies, but the Relief Society Stake President is in the Stake Committee, and the Ward President is on the Ward Committee. As such they are members of the governing board, and have a voice as to how that work shall be conducted. Where you have been in the habit of holding bazaars, you may still continue to do so, and keep the funds for your treasury that you receive from these. Advise your Ward Presidents and remember you yourself, will have to go to your committees and ask permission to retain for bazaars what you would normally have had for your Summer's work.
Please do not feel that we are not absolutely back of the Church Security Plan. We are so proud of what you have done that we are going to ask each Stake President, or her representative, to meet at the close of the four o'clock meeting when buses will be at the West Gate to take you to see a sample of what has been done in one Stake, and this, too, without using Relief Society funds. What funds have been used have been created through the Church Security. This demonstration is an example of what cooperation between the three women's organizations can do. Then if we have time we would like to take you to one of the other Stakes, which is perhaps very much like your own. This is a Stake where there has been little money, but where they have made over, cleaned and pressed men's clothing, 571 pieces; boy's clothing, 469 pieces; women's clothing, 881 pieces; girls' clothing, 887 pieces; making a total of 3,139 articles, including 103 quilts, and this has been made, as it has been in many of your Stakes, through the efforts of Relief Society. This work is typical of what has been done all over the Church.
It was our understanding that those who required relief were to be given the opportunity to work in the sewing and canning projects. The report is in practically all localities that our Relief Society women, especially the officers, are being overworked. This is creating a most unfortunate situation, as the women are for the most part the mothers in the homes, and they find it difficult to discharge these additional duties. It is reacting very unfavorably upon their Relief Society work. What do you advise in this matter? We have had more resignations of Ward Presidents this Fall than we have had at any other time. Of course in starting anything new it is necessary to get back of it and not think of ourselves, but now we hope that our Relief Society officers will not have to do the work. We hope that the work can be supervised, and women who are in need of help will be given pay for that work and relieve our splendid Ward Presidents. Relief Society will do the work it has been doing for years. It will be your responsibility to see that the sick sisters have little delicacies, that they have warm quilts, and it seems to me, if the brethren will permit it, it will be a good thing to keep in your treasuries and storerooms just about what you have kept for the last several years. There is no real change in our work, we will just take care of our own in the same way we have done, and as Latter-day Saints contribute to the Security Fund.
I think you have given nobly, wonderfully to the cause, and I think now we will still carry on, for we are every one of us Latter-day Saints. May the Lord bless you, bless you in your homes, bless you in your Relief Society, give you power and wisdom. O, do keep close to the Lord, you sisters. We do need Him now above all times. Keep close to the Lord and He will give you influence with the people with whom you work. Keep in harmony with your Bishops, and tell them your needs. Let them know what you Stake Presidents advise your Ward Presidents to do. Let the Bishops know what our plans and needs are, they are interested in us, but they sometimes do not understand our wants. You Stake Presidents make your needs known and explain the Relief Society situation, for we are eager and willing to help the Church Security. We have all our lives upheld our hands to sustain the Authorities of the Church, and I believe this is one of the revelations from God. I believe He has spoken through the leaders of our Church, and they have established the Church Security program. It is the thing we need for every member of the Church, whether we have an abundance or whether we are in poverty, it is the best thing that has come, and I believe the saving principle of our Church. I think if we enter into this wholeheartedly and never count the work or time we give, but give our best to the Lord, that is the very least that we can do. If we can do this we will have peace and harmony, and will be really sustaining the Authorities of the Church. I have heard President Grant say, "We sing 'We Thank Thee O God for a Prophet,'" but I believe now the women of the Church are showing President Heber J. Grant that we do sustain him as a Prophet, and we are willing and eager to help. May we feel this and carry the message back to the women, for the only thing that will save us is strict obedience to the Prophet of the Lord. May we feel this and carry the message back to our Wards, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
GENERAL SESSION
THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
THERE are but three types of government which have been developed in the history of civilization. The centralization of power has invariably produced the dictator and ended in tyranny. The decentralization of power, when pushed to the extreme, has been inefficient and ended in anarchy. The organized balancing of powers is the result of mankind's efforts to find a workable plan that will keep power centralized enough to achieve efficiency without tyranny, and decentralized enough to achieve freedom without anarchy. This was the plan chosen by our American forefathers and charted by the Constitution of the United States.
During the Revolution a common danger united the States. When this, however, came to a close, it must not be supposed that our national life was secured. It is far more correct to say that the most critical period of our country's history embraced the time from 1783 to the adoption of the Constitution in 1789. After much opposition and debate Congress finally invited the States to send delegates, and in May, 1787, the Constitutional Convention held its meetings in that plain brick building in Philadelphia from which the Declaration of Independence was published to the world. There were fifty-five men assembled in this remarkable group. Benjamin Franklin, then eighty-one years of age, was one of Pennsylvania's delegates, and at his suggestion George Washington was made Chairman of the Convention. On September 17, 1787, the Constitutional Convention adjourned, on the 20th of September Congress received this Document accompanied by a letter from Washington. It was submitted to the States for ratification, but took two years to obtain the approval of enough States to put the Constitution into effect.
The formation of the Constitution of the United States was one of the most important events in history. It gave to mankind the first adequate type of government by the people, capable of being extended to the greatest of nations, and established the union of the states upon a foundation on which was actually reared this mighty nation of ours. It is "We, the people" who ordain this Constitution quite as much today as it was in 1789, for the Constitution of the United States is the fundamental laws or principles of government by which the people of this nation agree to be governed, resting, as it does, upon the principles that all governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed.
George Washington said, "The basis of our political system is the right of the people to make and to alter their constitution or government," and Lord Bryce added: "The American Constitution has stood unbroken because it has submitted to a process of constant, though scarcely perceptible change, which has adapted it to the conditions and need of each new age." It is the greatest contribution of the Anglo-Saxon people to the science and practice of government.
TALK Counselor Kate M. Barker
IN the spirit of service, a group of women in Nauvoo asked the Prophet Joseph Smith if they might be organized that they might serve better. He answered that he had a plan for a woman's organization much greater than any they had in mind. Having effected the organization, he said, "I now turn the keys for you in the name of God." Thus the Relief Society was organized by the Prophet of the Lord for the development of the women of the Church and through inspiration the outline of the work was given by an all wise Father. The Prophet said, "If you live up to these principles how great and glorious! If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." Do the women of the Church believe this? If so what should one expect in the way of active co-operation and loyalty? Yet this is a report from one stake which is rather typical of all— L. D. S. Families........1140 Membership in Relief Society... 500 Average attendance.................. 195 We are living in an age where we need the value that alone can come from regular and sincere worship and from a fellowship where love and service prevail. We are living in an age when an organization such as the Relief Society needs its whole strength. There is need for a planned and strong eftort on the part of the faithful members— carried on in the spirit of love—to give each woman of the Church the joy and opportunity which active membership offers, and greater power to the group. ° How shall we enlist their interest and support? We can make known the time and place of meetings, special events and activities, and we can make known the message of Relief Society. We must recognize that our organization is judged by the character and attitude of its members. If we are filled with enthusiasm, if we are regular in attendance, if we hold our heads high, if we come from our meetings as though we had been somewhere, if we feel and act as though it was a great honor to belong, if in our living we show we are better and happier for belonging, then we clothe the organization in the greatness it deserves. We must bring the Relief Society into such a commanding position that all women will feel the power of its unity and love. The finest kind of advertising is the personal word. It is through such personal testimonies that our 716 Church has grown. Let us appeal to the hearts of the women, to their loyalties to an organization with such a rich heritage of sacrifice and service! Let us appeal to their sense of fairness—it was organized for them —they are adult women of the Church. Let us appeal to their loyalty to their Father in Heaven who organized it for them! But after these appeals—if we reach them—can we make our organization so effective that we strike still deeper roots of loyalty. Loyalty which endures is the loyalty which comes from having a hunger of the soul satisfied. The hunger for friendship is one of the deepest longings of the human soul—friendship which lasts through sorrow and joy—such a friendship as missionaries develop under the influence of the spirit and in a common devotion to the highest ideals of service. The Relief Society has all the opportunities for developing such friendship. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Another fundamental need of the soul is for spiritual food. One teacher can take facts, and they appear cold and lacking in inspiration, another takes the same facts and by spiritual insight makes them mean gloriously, so that they put worth, dignity, joy, hope and faith into life. It is in this spiritual interpretation of all our educational courses that the Relief Society stands supreme among woman's organizations. It is such teaching that makes possible the satisfying of another soul hunger—that of service—of longing to do something for some one. Such service is a fundamental part of Relief Society. If we can get the women to just once taste the joy of such service the roots of loyalty will go deep enough to hold. (Elder Melvin J. Ballard's address will be published in a later issue of the Magazine. ) ADDRESS James H. McClintock, Director in Charge of Finance, American Red Cross I ASSURE you I esteem it the greatest personal honor of my life to stand in this place. Certainly it is something I never expected to do. At our luncheon this noon we had the pleasure of the presence of your President, even on this busy day. I am glad to have this chance to return her call, and to extend to you in your work the warmest greetings and the profound appreciation from the American Red Cross for the great support and cooperation which we have always had from this great Church, and particularly from your organization. We deal with common problems, and we have learned to admire profoundly the success with which you are carrying on your great achievements. I am going to say just a personal thing as I stand in this place. I am not a fan who writes letters, and I never dreamed I would have the opportunity to stand here and express for myself, and thousands of others, the appreciation for that one great program of all the week that comes from this place. I believe the people who listen to that are not the kind who write letters, and I want to speak for myself and for them, and thank all you who have any part in it for something which, if nothing else, justifies the radio. Again my warmest greetings and best wishes. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 717 ADDRESS Louise Y. Robison, President GHORTLY before his death, President Anthony W. Ivins made an impressive address at a Priesthood meeting. It seems an excellent standard for all Latter-day Saints by which to measure their own lives. May I read the opening paragraph of this sermon: "T was thirteen years of age when I was ordained as Elder in the Church, I can never forget how seriously the responsibility which came to me at that time was impressed upon my mind. I remember thinking that. I could no longer be my own self, this mortal boy that I was, thinking very much of things that concerned me; that I could not talk as I talked when I was myself, but that I must submerge myself in the Church, because it seemed to me upon accepting this responsibility that I was in a sense, a very modest sense, of course, the Church. I was a part of it. I thought to myself, if I do an idle thing, people will see in that the fruits of the Church of which I am a member. If I say improper things they will take the same view of what I say. I must live, I must speak, and I must act as a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That impression has never left me. As I grew older, and other responsibilities came to me, that first deep impression always returned." I have been wondering what membership in the Church means to each of us today. Has it changed our manner of life? Has the joy of service and sharing, come to members of Relief Society? Our Heavenly Father is ever giving us opporutnities to prove ourselves, to learn if the Gospel of Jesus Christ has made us stronger in overcoming temptation; if we have greater faith to sustain us in defeat and to inspire us to further endeavors; if it has given us the power of patience, of endurance and the 'assurance of final victory. Within the last six months the Authorities of the Church have in- ° troduced a wonderful plan for the development of all the members of the Church — those who have an abundance of material interests, those who are in moderate circumstances, and those whose burdens are too heavy to carry alone. The benefit will come to each individual just in proportion to the acceptance of the plan. The voice of the Savior is speaking to each one of us today—not alone to the rich young man in the parable—but to those who have little and to those who have nothing—the challenge is as great as it is to the wealthy. In the Church Security Plan there is an opportunity for each person to follow the Master. The Relief Societies all over the Church are to be congratulated upon the response made to the call of the General Authorities of the Church. In some Stakes the Y. W. M. 1. A., the Primary and the Relief Society have worked together, and the result is marvelous. We hear these glorious reports from most of the Stakes of the Church. Many have worked beyond their strength during the past few months, but the establishment of any great movement calls for valiant workers. Those who have made the greatest effort are those who have and will receive the greater blessing. This is ever true. The word of the Lord never fails.. There are many other opportuni- 718 ties given for our advancement, in all of them the same rule holds good. The Relief Society Ward President, or other officer who questions the advice of her Stake President, and who thinks her way of conducting affairs of the Society is superior, always defeats her purpose. I never remember one such officer developing or being called to a higher position. Class leaders who condemn the type of lesson prepared by those who are called to do that work, after careful and prayerful study, never have really successful classes. It is cooperation which brings success— criticism always brings unhappiness and failure. Dr. Ashley Day Leavitt says: "Not until in the midst of work to be done a man has said, "This is my task'; not until in the face of a problem has he said, "This is my opportunity'; not until in the great field of life, which is the field of religion, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he has said, "This is my cause'; has his soul come to life." May we live in the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that we shall be able to feel and say, as the Prophet of old, "O God, thou art my God." Then peace will come, no matter what the conflict in the world; then joy and happiness, development and eternal progress will be ours. At the close of our conference, I want to tell you how much we have appreciated your presence here. Although we have worked hard this Summer, we are never weary, for it is in the service of humanity. We are working for the Savior, and His promise is sure, that He will make our burdens light and our yokes easy. May you have this experience that your testimony may be developed I humblv pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. A Wish By Carlton James Balfour When we have gathered all the sweet fresh bloom of youth, And stand upon life's hill-top looking back— When we have sounded depths of clear unfettered Truth— Have left some dreams, some joys along our track— - May Peace her robe of white around us fold, And Love hold fast Our hand as We grow old. When down the western slope of time we take our way, And leaves of autumn rustle neath our feet, May we recall with joy, Life's glad young span— When dreams were real, and days were long and sweet, Keep us, oh God, from growing hard and cold, For, Oh—, We would be young, when We grow old Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon NOVEMBER—The little kindnesses of life bring more happiness than costly gifts. MABEL VERNON, of Delaware, directs a campaign to obtain signatures on a mandate to end war. The women of Amsterdam parade the streets as a gesture for world peace, and an American delegation at Geneva propose a fast day on Armistice day to promote peace; while in Spain, in the maddest of wars, women and children are being slaughtered. Has the world forgotten "We shall not sleep in Flander's fields?" MRS. ELIZABETH HAYWARD, of Utah, rejoiced over the issue of the Susan B. Anthony stamp. She introduced the resolution in the state senate to ratify the 19th Amendment. MRS. JANE WEST HERRICK, of Utah, died last September. She was founder of a school of Dramatic Art in Denver. QUEEN MARY, in the tradition of England's widowed queens has moved her personal treasures from Buckingham palace and taken up her residence in Marlborough house., PRINCESS JULIANA, of the Netherlands, and her sweetheart, Prince Bernhard Biesterfeld, will be married next spring. MESS SUSAN STURGIS, of Boston, president of the Association of Bank Women, says women are daily proving themselves most capable in financial matters. CLARA KATHRYN VAN HORN, age 12, of Ohio, was more frightened when the president of the United States gave her the medal of the army and navy Legion of Valor, than when she saved the lives of the two boys speeding towards an oncoming train. RUSE JANIS, movie star, has dedicated her fortune to charity, even auctioning her stage costumes. Her new career is living to make others happy. BABY DOE TABOR, who starved and froze to death in a mountain cabin last winter, left 17 trunks filled with costly dresses, cloaks, hats and lingerie, worth thousands of dollars, which now form an unrivalled costume collection in the Colorado State Historical Museum. MRS. BERYL MARKHAM, English socialite, was the first woman to make a solo flight westward across the Atlantic. The plane crashed in Nova Scotia, but the aviatrix was unhurt. BETTY BROWNING, of Kansas, won the Amelia Earhart trophy race, at the national air races in September, and Mrs. Louise Thaden won the $15,000 Bendix trophy race. AMELIA GALLI-CURCI is to return to opera this month with the Chicago Opera Company. SONJA HENIE and Katherine Stammers, two noted sports women, have both accepted contracts for moving pictures. PRINCESS ASFA GILMA, of Ethiopia, has written a biography of Haile Selassie. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN.- KATE M. BARKER JULIA A. F. LUND Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B, Knight Lalene H. Hart Lotta Paul Baxter Cora L, Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Ida P. Beal Motto—Charity Never Faileth Marcia K. Howells President First Counselor 2 - Second Counselor: - General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Elise B. Alder Inez K. Allen Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Editor.- Manager: c - - - Assistant Manager - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mary Connelly Kimbal! Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXIII NOVEMBER, 1936 No. 11 Editorials Best Wishes WE congratulate our beloved President Heber J. Grant on reaching his eightieth birthday vigorous in body, alert in mind, radiant in spirit. His life long in years and in good deeds has been an example of integrity and devotion to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, Never was there a more devoted son. His mother's welfare and happiness were ever dominant in his mind, and he saw to it that her last days were her best days. In his young manhood he longed for a university education. When George Q. Cannon, then in Congress, told him that he would appoint him either to Annapolis or West Point, he walked on air. He felt now his dreams could be' realized. He chose Annapolis. He visioned himself an admiral. His joy was complete until he looked into his mother's eyes and saw pain there. He gave up this cherished longing because she did not wish him to go. This decision we believe changed the whole course of his life, for with his determination and application he doubtless would have gained distinction in the navy which would have taken him away from his people. As husband, father, grandfather, he has shown the same devotion as he did to his mother. While he leads a very busy life, he always has time to look after the welfare of his family.. The bond of love between him and them is most beautiful. Sincerity must be the fundamental characteristics of a truly great man. President Grant from his boyhood has ever evidenced this sterling trait. He has been throughout his long life sincere in his affection for his family, sincere in his determination to succeed, sincere in his service to his employers. From the time he was appointed as President of Tooele Stake through his long years of service as Apostle and as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, his sincere EDITORIALS faith, his unswerving devotion to his Father's work has been unquestioned. President Grant is in the truest sense deeply religious. He has visited and ministered to the widow and orphan and has kept himself unspotted from the sins of the world. He goes about continually doing good, finding congenial work for those out of employment, giving words of encouragement and financial assistance to those in need, distributing books with a lavish hand that feed the souls of those who read them, scattering works of art to bring culture and delight to thousands. Because of his wide travel and the remarkable welcome he _ receives from people of all classes, he has 721 been termed our "Ambassador of Good Will." He is accorded respect and honor wherever he goes, and people listen intently to his message and enthusiastically applaud him at its conclusion. Those whom he meets recognize his sincerity. They know he believes what he preaches, and his clear messages find a welcome in their hearts. And so beloved and honored by his own people and by those of different faiths he goes about enriching the lives of those whom he meets. As he goes from stake to stake and ward to ward, his admonitions lead to better living among the Latter-day Saints. God has blessed and magnified him. Long may he live to be a source of strength to his people. We Thank You WE deeply appreciate the wonderful work done by our Magazine agents and those who have assisted them. Their determination to get many subscriptions has been realized; their enthusiasm could not but result in success. We thank those who have responded so loyally and hope that each subscriber will feel the dollar paid was a good investment. Many have liberally subscribed for more than their own Magazine. One woman in Lincoln Ward handed the agent $10.00 asking that eight subscriptions be sent to homebound women and one to a blind sister, adding, "When I visit her I can read to her from its pages and so can other callers.'' Some of our agents have felt disappointed because in spite of their earnest work, through the large numbers on the inactive roll, they did not get a high percentage of subscriptions. We hope they will feel encouraged with the thought that their contact with these inactive ones will result in much good. Many have succeeded in getting subscriptions from them, and the Magazine may be a means of bringing them to our meetings. Others have felt the earnest enthusiastic spirit of the agents and will be roused to activity. Our Project As the mission of the Savior will be the subject for the Theological lessons 1937-1938, and the Teachers' Topics will correlate with it, the Project on New Testament reading will be for the two seasons, 1936-1937 and 1937-1938. Our Stakes knowing this can plan the Project Program accordingly and can do much more intensive work than if we were only taking the New Testament for one year. Lesson Department (For First Week in January) THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson 4 FUNDAMENTAL QUALITIES OF LIFE (The Beatitudes) Helpful References Matthew, 5:1-6; 5:7-12. III Nephi, 12:1-6; 12:7-12. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, Chapter 17. King, The Ethics of Jesus, Chapter 6 Rall, The Teachings of Jesus, p. 69 f. Bennion, Moral Teachings of the New Testament, Chapter 28. Findlay, The Realism of Jesus, Chapter 6. 1. Beatitudes Point Out Qualities of Character, Happiness, and Influence. | T has been pointed out by some | able men that the Beatitudes lead us into a new realm of morality. Characteristically, the Savior got down to bedrock in the realm of the spirit, and defined for His disciples the fundamental qualities essential to character, to joy, and to moral power. Henry Churchill King, speaking of the Beatitudes, said, "In them the supreme artist in living, facing the whole problem of the life for all men, distinctly challenges the ruling conceptions of his time, and definitely points out the qualities of character that must mark the citizen of the coming civilization of the brotherly men; and declares that these qualities are at the same time the supreme conditions of happiness, and that they contain as well the secret of all powerful influence for good." After pointing out that the Christ was disappointed with the false standards and acts of men, President King adds, "he has begun his preaching with the charge: Repent, get a new mind. That new mind and character he defines in the Beatitudes." 2. Definition of "Blessed." It is usual for us to associate the word "Beatitude" with "blessed." But unfortunately the latter has now come to have little meaning for us, because it is used as a technical religious term. New Testament scholars almost despair of adequately translating the Beatitudes. It is almost necessary to paraphrase them if they are to be made readily understandable. It will not do to substitute "happy" for "blessed," because to our age "happiness" does not connote the same thing as the "blessedness" of which the Lord spoke. "What is apparently meant is 'to be congratulated upon their prospects'; the men and women described in the sentences which begin with this word are likely candidates for the Kingdom, as the 'rich' and 'well-fed,' 'the strong, the easy, and the glad' are not.": 3. First Group of Beatitudes deal. With Inner Personal Qualities. In discussing the Beatitudes we shall divide them into two groups of four each. The first four Beatitudes have mainly to do with inner personal qualities; the second group with social matters—our dealings in relation to others. In the first Beatitude the Lord deals with the '"'poor in spirit." These seem to be lowly folk who, somehow, are out of tune LESSON DEPARTMENT with the bustling, giddy, restless life about them. They are they who have a deep sense of spiritual deficiency and dependence upon God. These are they who "have no will of their own before God, only a perfect and contented submission to him." These are they who are "the humble, the teachable, the open-minded, and include as well the trustful." This Beatitude as reported in III Nephi 12:3 specifies that the above "who come unto me" are the heirs of the "kingdom of heaven." Such people are truly "blessed" and "to be congratulated upon their prospects." Those who mourn, are the subject of the second Beatitude. This class is made up of those who are deeply concerned for their sins, who mourn their defects, and who are truly repentant. These may be contrasted with those who are without conscience or scruple, who make no effort toward self-examination. The word "meek" in the third Beatitude is very difficult to render in modern speech. It was almost better to point to a man like President Wilford Woodruff as an example of it than to attempt to define it. -The Old Testament meaning seems to be "humble." "Easy to get on with," "unassuming," "ready to make allowances," "gentle," "patiently persistent," are terms that define various phases of it. Professor Findlay in defining the "meek" says, "They are men, who, with great ends in view, are willing to give way and make allowances in matters of smaller moment; they have that rare faculty, the ability to distinguish trifles from what is of serious importance. All quarrelsome people justify themselves on the ground that the thing is a question of principle with them; the meek man knows by instinct where he must fight and where he can safely yield ground." Those who "hunger and thirst after righteous- 723 ness' as mentioned in the fourth Beatitude have "the insatiable desire for character itself, the unfailing pursuit of the best in conduct and inner spirit." Such in their inner desires and outer actions attempt to conform to the will of God. Seemingly this Beatitude as reported in Matthew is not complete. III Nephi 12:6 indicates that the subjects of the Beatitude ''shall be filled with the Holy Ghost." A better guide to fulfil their desires could scarcely be found. Professor Rall sums up the spirit of the first four Beatitudes as follows: "The central thought of the first four Beatitudes is one: the spirit of humility regarding onesself, the spirit of longing toward God." 4. Second Group of Beatitudes Deals with Man's Relation to his Fellows. As pointed out above, the second four Beatitudes deal more especially with man's relation to his fellows. It should be constantly kept in mind that the first four do not necessarily exclude ali relations with one's fellows; the emphasis is placed rather on the individual and his inner qualities. The second group with which we now deal emphasizes that righteousness does not exist apart from our fellows. The fifth Beatitude deals with the "merciful." This word carries with it a sense of "brotherly" rather than "pitiful." The merciful man has pity, of course, but he has as well a sense of courtesy and kindness that far transcends the "compassionate conde-. Scension of a superior to one beneath him." The Good Samaritan in the tenth chapter of Luke is the type of the merciful man. "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among thieves? And he said, "He that showed mercy on him." (Italics ours). The word "heart" of the sixth Beatitude has reference to the "mind" in our current 724 speech. The "pure minded" as suggested by one writer are those who in their quest of God "desire nothing else, they are set free from the hindrance of competing motives, unlike the rest of us who want so many things at the same time that we never really get anything." They have inner purity which comes by reason of their reverence of the sacredness of the person. "The pure in heart recognize the child of God in every soul, and treat him, accordingly, not as a thing, but as a holy person." Dr. King quotes a certain writer as saying, "Reverence is the root from which purity grows; and never was the essential nature of purity set in more vivid contrast with that blind and brutal profanity which is its opposite, than in Christ's striking utterance, 'Give not that which is holy to the dogs.' The "peacemakers" of the seventh Beatitude are not to be regarded simply as "keepers of the peace." Such men are "those who seek to call their fellows away from the distraction of the desires which divide them and set them against one another." These actively seek to reconcile men and nations and promote the cause of peace. "The peacemaker not only withstands hate, but positively promotes the reign of love among men." Truly such men "shall be called the children of God." The eighth Beatitude deals with the reward of men valiant in the service of God. Persecution is the badge of such service and ought not to be regarded as a penalty. Every prophet, pioneer, reformer, and scholar knows that the path leading to truth and righteousness is beset with difficulties. Such men "have been willing to endure hardness, to face the trying experience of the pioneer in every realm, to give the one incontestable proof of love that is found in sacrifice and suffering." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 5. Every Beatitude is Necessary. It will be seen, in conclusion, that every Beatitude is necessary in the formation of a complete character. The order of the Beatitudes, it will be noted, is remarkable. Each leads one a step higher on the difficult road of spiritual achievement. If love in its broadest sense be compared to a diamond, then each Beatitude is a facet reflecting the qualities that make it up. Questions 1. What is meant by character? Joy? (2 Nephi 2:25). Happiness? Pleasure? 2. What is your estimate of Ruskin's statement: "I believe the first test of a truly great man is his humility"'? 3. What is the importance of getting a clear conception of the meaning of the Beatitudes? Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit) 1. Show, if you can, that the Beatitudes are progressive, i. E., that each one naturally leads up to the one that follows. 2. Learn what you can of the late Jane Addams. Discuss her life in the light of the Beatitudes. 3. Determine as far as you can, the great movements now in the world to promote the cause of world peace. What is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints doing to promote this cause? 4, Let the class determine by discussion and research the possibilities and importance of newspapers and periodicals in promoting ideals and human fellowship. To what extent are these agencies performing their function in the direction of the ideals expressed in the Beatitudes? 5. Point out incidents in the life of President Wilford Woodruff, that show his meekness. TEACHERS' TOPIC (For January, 1937) THE PARABLE OF THE TALENTS (Matthew 25:14-30) OR the kingdom of Heaven is as a F man traveling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. "And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey. "Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made them other five talents. "And likewise he that had received two, he also gained cther two. "But he that had received one went and digged in the earth, and hid his lord's money. "After a long time the lord of the servants cometh, and reckoneth with them. "And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents; behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. "His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy lord. "He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord thou deliveredst unto me two talents: behcld I have gained two other talents beside them. "His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things, enter thou into the joy of thy lord. "Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I know thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed. "And I was afraid and went and hid thy talent in the earth; lo, there thou hast that is thine. His lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed. "Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. "Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents.. "For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." The story is true to the Oriental life of the period, for when a wealthy man was leaving his home for awhile he might leave his confidential slaves to act for him, letting them till his soil and use his money in trade. There was an understanding that the servants would be rewarded for their faithfulness. The talent was about $1000 in our money; so ten talents represents a large fortune. The master gave the servants time to make good use of the talents. He returned after a long absence to call them to account. According to the ancient law all that grew on a man's land belonged to him, even though he had not sowed or planted. It was in this relation that the servant accused the master of harshness and greed. Keeping in mind the definition of a parable, "An earthly story with a heavenly meaning," we know that our Lord does not mean money, but the natural gifts and opportunity for service. If we fail to use our gifts and take advantage of our opportunities we naturally forfeit them and "from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." For the one who uses his 726 gifts and takes advantage of opportunity and responsibility for service devoting himself to the Lord's work is the "one who hath" and to him shall be given more responsibility and ability. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Discussion What is the meaning of "the more of love we give the more we have"? What are the opportunities for development through service to others? WORK AND BUSINESS REPAIRING, REMODELING, REPLENISHING, CLOTHING, BEDDING AND HOUSEHOLD LINENS THE old saying, "A stitch in time saves nine,' surely is worth consideration, especially when so many synthetic materials of various kinds are used for every purpose in the home. Properly repaired articles, at the right time, require less replenishing. Remodeling may or may not be result of poor repairing. Following the holiday seasons when the daily routine of work is more or less off schedule, is a good time to take an inventory of the household stock. It is between seasons and many wardrobes especially those of school children, show signs of wear, and with some changes in several articles they can be made to last the few remaining weeks of winter. Also preparation for the remodeling of the past summer, clothes can be done to meet the needs of the warm days which soon follow. Then, too, many department stores and smaller shops have taken inventories of their stock and are advertising sales of various kinds with as high as 75% off on some articles. While it is not economy to buy anything unneeded or non-usable because it is cheap, many good buys can be made at this time, especially of linens and bedding, and whose household does not need replenishing from time to time? Careful planning not only saves money and energy but many hours of tedious work entailed in keeping up family standards. Whether repairing or remodeling worn fabrics, or buying new ones it is the smart and clever woman who knows her textiles, how best to use and to care for them. With the large amount of rayon consumed 250,000,000 lbs. Of fabrics yearly is the estimated amount produced) every customer who uses it should be informed as to what will or will not wear or wash well. The weave is the gauge by which its cleanable qualities are measured. The close fine even weave lends itself best to proper care and is usually washable. Not all fabrics are preshrunk and to save shrinkage after laundering it is best to wash material before it is made up. Colors often make a costume and should last the life of the garment. Sunlight, washing, perspiration and other conditions cause fading, be sure colors are fast or the effort in matching materials and accessories will be lost. Stretchy materials often cause baggy skirts and droopy hems. Pull the fabric firmly between fingers; if it gives much and does not go back in place chances are it will stretch when washed or worn very much. For the woman who sews fashion and pattern designers and fabric manufacturers are cooperating better and each month brings beautiful new designs and fabrics adapted to meet the various needs. Home sewing and remodeling is being revived. The active women of today require a full and varied ward- LESSON DEPARTMENT robe and a larger supply of household linens. Mean extravagance or economy; it is the latter most women are choosing. They have discovered that few things are necessary to make sewing easy and enjoyable. With good material either new or renovated, an easy-to-follow pattern, a suitable design, sharp cutting scissors, a tape measure and a few good pins most women can create for themselves and their families clothes of beauty and distinction. You, too, may get satisfaction from so doing because you may choose just the pattern you like, make it in the fabric you want, have your fabrics any design or color, be sure of proper fit, and pay as much or little as you desire. For best results in repairing any fabric, the same kind of material in weave and texture and thread in size and color should be used. Especially is this true in mending stockings and lingerie. The dainty appearance of the latter may be preserved by occasional tinting. A faded blue garment will tint a delicate or- 'chid with pink dye. A pale yellow will shade into a delicate green with blue dye. Many other combinations can be produced with little experimenting, but only small quantities of dye should be used for pastel colors. White woolen blankets which have become yellowed with age or unproper washing may also be dyed pink, rose green or any favorite color, and when bound with material with same or contrasting color they are pretty as well as serviceable. Sheets that show signs of wear will give longer service if torn apart down the center, the salvage edges turned to middle and sewed with a flat seam, and the torn edges finished with a narrow hem. Cotton sheet blankets may be treated the same way. Unbleached sheeting bought by the yard and hemmed at home will wear longer than ready-made sheets, it soon bleaches out white.
Materials to be remodeled should be cleaned according to their characteristics and carefully pressed before using. If in doing the latter the fabrics become scorched it may be removed from light woolen material by spreading French chalk or moistened cornstarch over scorched place and let remain until starch is thoroughly dry. If on linen wash with soap and water or wet with lemon juice and place in sun. Moistened bicarbonate of soda will remove it from light silk. White felt hats may also be cleaned with moistened starch, paste of magnesium and water, dry cornmeal or art gum. Brush carefully; either method is used.
Crushed nap or pile of such material as velvet can be restored by placing spot over basin of hot water, the wrong side next to the water or by using a moderately hot iron on wrong side while material is in hanging position. Sometimes just exposure to air will restore it.
If dry cleaning has to be done at home every precaution should be taken to avoid accidents. Friction often causes explosion and starts fires. Do not use washing machine for such purposes. It is never economy to combine new with old material unless it is for parts of article where there is extra or excessive wear.
Time spent in selecting clothes, bedding and linens saves time in caring for them. Let quality, durability, adaptability, and usability be guides in accomplishing this.
References
Article, "Will it Wash," Aug., 1936, Delineator. Article, "Imagine Wearing That," Sept., 1936, Delineator. Better Buymanship Pamphlets, Household Finance Corp., 1919 North Michigan Ave., Chicago.
LITERATURE (For Second Week in January)
Lesson IV ABRAHAM LINCOLN
AT the services for Will Rogers at the Hollywood Bowl, Rupert Hughes said that a word used to describe Abraham Lincoln could perhaps best be used to describe Will Rogers. That word was "homespun." If it be true, then the word "homespun" is an exalted word; for it looms large in the lives of two of America's most unique citizens, and has helped to build two of the most characteristic and beloved men of our Republic. Both disdained the conventional demands of dress; both could tell good stories; both knew the value of a sense of humor, and both had an understanding of human nature so rare that from it there evolved a compelling and keen philosophy of life.
The life of Abraham Lincoln written by Carl Sandburg, American poet, is entitled "Abraham Lincoln, The Prairie Years." And that is exactly what it is, for it does not follow him to the Nation's Capitol. It is a volume of 908 pages and carries with it the history of the settlement of the Prairie Country. It is one of the great volumes of American pioneer life, vitalized by a discriminating and plentiful use of detail.
Abraham Lincoln's father's name was Tom. He lived in a country where when "they wished to speak of lighter things, they could talk about pancakes." It was a saying that a woman who was clever "could toss a pancake off the skillet up through the top of the chimney and run outdoors and catch it coming down."
Tom Lincoln was looking for a wife. His eyes fell upon a brunette sometimes called Nancy Hanks and sometimes Nancy Sparrow, who lived with the Sparrow family. Lucy Hanks had given birth to Nancy in Virginia, in 1784, "and had traveled the Wilderness Road carrying what was to her a precious bundle through Cumberland Gap and on into Kentucky."
"Tom Lincoln had seen this particular Nancy Hanks living with the Sparrows and noticed she was shrewd and dark and lonesome. He had heard her tremulous voice and seen her shaken with sacred desires in church camp-meetings; he had seen her at preachings in cabins when her face stood out as a sort of picture in black against the firelight of the burning logs. He knew she could read the Bible, and had read in other books. She had seen a few newspapers and picked out pieces of news and read her way through.... Her dark skin, dark brown hair, keen little gray eyes, outstanding forehead, somewhat accented chin and cheek-bones, body of slender build, weighing about 130 pounds, these formed the outward shape of a woman carrying something strange and cherished along her ways of life. She was sad with sorrows like dark stars in blue mist. The hope was deep burned in her that beyond the harsh clay paths, the everyday scrubbing, washing, patching, fixing, the babble and the gabble of today, there are pastures and purple valleys of song."
"She believed in God, in the Bible, in mankind, in the past and future, in babies, animals, people, flowers, fishes. Everyday came scrubbing, washing, patching, fixing. There was so little time to think or sing about the glory she believed in."
Nevertheless, on June 10, 1806, she married Thomas Lincoln, according to the rites of the Methodist Episcopal Church. It was a Kentucky wedding where bear-meat, venison, wild turkey and ducks' eggs, wild and tame, and maple sugar lumps tied on a string to bite off for coffee or whiskey were served. Nor was this all. A sheep had been barbecued over coals of wood burned in a pit. It would seem that the whole village attended the wedding and that whiskey was much in evidence. She was a June bride. Her husband put her on a horse and they rode along the red clay road to Elizabethtown, where they settled in a cabin close to the courthouse. The new husband was a carpenter who made cabinets, door-frames, window sashes, and coffins. His reputation was that of a solid reliable man whose word could be depended on.
While living in Elizabethtown their first child was born, a girl who they named Sarah. In blossomtime of the year 1808 Tom and Nancy with little Sarah moved to a farm of George Brownfield. "The smell of wild crab-apple blossoms, and the low crying of all wild things came keen that summer to the nostrils of Nancy Hanks."
Later the Lincoln's moved to a place about two and a half miles from Hodgenville. "The floor was packed-down dirt. One door, swung on leather hinges, let them in and out. One small window gave a lookout on the weather, the rain or snow, sun and trees, and the play of the rolling prairie and low hills. A stick-clay chimney carried the fire smoke up and away."
One morning in February, 1809, Tom Lincoln came out of his cabin, stopped a neighbor and asked her "to tell the 'granny woman,' Aunt Peggy Walters, that Nancy would need help soon....
"On the morning of February 12, a Sunday, the 'granny woman' was there at the cabin, and she and Tom Lincoln and the moaning Nancy Hanks welcomed into a world of battle and blood, of whispering dreams and wistful dust, a new child, a boy."
Later Tom Lincoln threw some wood on the fire and an extra bearskin on Nancy and went up the road to where Tom and Betsy Sparrow lived. He was met at the door by Dennis Sparrow, an adopted son of nine years of age. On hearing the news, Dennis hurried to the Lincoln cabin where the mother lay "on a bed of poles cleated to a corner of the cabin, under warm bearskins."
"What you goin' to name him, Nancy?" the boy asked.
"Abraham," was the answer, "after his grandfather."
Soon after came Betsy Sparrow, who washed the baby and put on him a linsey shirt and a yellow petticoat, "cooked dried berries with wild honey for Nancy, put the one-room cabin in better order, kissed Nancy and comforted her, and went home."
Dennis and Betsy were there next morning. Dennis asked to hold the baby, who cried, so he handed it to Betsy, saying as he did so, "Aunt, take him! He'll never come to much."
"So came the birth of Abraham Lincoln that twelfth of February in the year 1809—in silence and pain from a wilderness mother on a bed of corn-husks and bearskins—with an early laughing child-prophecy he would never come to much."
The family lived on Knob Creek farm from Abe's third to past his seventh year. At that time the boy walked four miles a day to Knob Creek school to learn to read and write. In 1816 his father was appointed road surveyor. Yet as time went on poor white men were having a harder time to get along. So when Indiana was admitted into the Union as a state, the Lincoln's took note of it, and resolved to move again.
They traveled, coming in time to the Ohio River. And finally Tom Lincoln, his wife, his son and daughter arrived at Little Pigeon Creek, without horse or cow or house. "Naked they came into the world," says Sandburg, "and almost naked they came to Pigeon Creek, Indiana."
Here they faced pioneer life in all its rigors and there they lived for fourteen years. Lincoln's world was a narrow world, but the moon that looks on all things had seen many changes in those days. For one thing, in 1816 it had seen sixteen thousand wagons come along one turnpike in Pennsylvania; up the Mississippi River that year had come the first steamboat to curve into the Ohio River and land passengers at Louisville. Wagons and the iron horse were coming, ingots, iron, steel, were being made in Pennsylvania, and a sheet copper mill was starting in Massachusetts.
A new cabin was built in the new state, and when the early frosts came the Lincoln's moved into it. The children had to walk nine miles to school. Nancy cleaned Abe's ears, where he had failed, and combed the tangle out of his sandy black hair and said: "Abe, you go to school now, and learn all you kin." And he said, "Yes, mammy," and started with his sister through the forest haunted by bear, deer, coon, and wildcats. One day they heard a crash in the timber of horses and wagon and looking out saw Tom and Betsy Sparrow and their seventeen year old boy, Dennis Hanks.
But a year had scarcely passed when Tom and Betsy were taken with the "milk sick," beginning with a tongue coated white. Both died in October, and were buried on a little hill nearby. Then one day Nancy had the burning in "her vitals," and her tongue too was white. Her feet and hands grew cold and her pulse slow. She called her children to her bedside and told Abe he must be good to his sister and father. So on "a bed of poles cleated to the corner of the cabin" like the one on which Abe was born, Nancy lay with the fire of a pioneer mother in her eyes and the pinch of want about her mouth. The children came and cried, "Mammy, Mammy," but there was no reply as their voices faded into silence. Nancy Hanks was dead. At thirty-six years of age the wilderness had claimed her life. Her little son assisted in making the crude coffin and she was laid to rest on the hill beside Tom and Betsy Sparrow.
Note: Further detail may be found in chapters one to twelve of "Abraham Lincoln," by Carl Sandburg.
Questions
1. In what state was Abraham Lincoln born?
2. What were the names of his father and mother?
3. What was his father's reputation?
4. How would you characterize his mother?
5. Describe "little Abe's" first clothes.
6. What is the difference between the way our babies are dressed today and the way "little Abe" was dressed?
7. What would we fear if we dressed our babies that way today?
8. What Christian virtues characterized these early pioneers?
SOCIAL SERVICE
The Spirit Of Service In Industry, published in the October Magazine, will be the Social Service lesson for the fourth week in January, not in December as published, as it is not expected any association will meet so near Christmas.
CHILD GUIDANCE
Lesson IV FEAR
FEAR is perhaps the most common emotion which human beings experience, yet it is extremely doubtful if the child has any inherent fears at birth. Most fears are produced by some experience through which the individual has had to pass in early life. In dealing with children we are very prone to speak of their foolish fears, yet they are foolish and unreasonable to us as adults simply because of our inability to understand how certain experiences have left upon the mind of the child impressions and feelings which govern conduct for a long time. A large number of parents frighten children either as a punishment or as a means of obtaining desired conduct, and perhaps only a very few parents take the fears experienced by their children seriously enough. They do not make inquiry into their cause nor make efforts to eradicate them by careful explanation.
There appear to be two distinct types of fear—what might be called objective and subjective fears. The first are fears of things which can be seen or heard, like animals, policemen, doctors, lightning, guns and high places. The subjective fears are more intangible, and the causes are very hard to find. They are based on the feelings and attitudes of the child to something which he has heard and upon which he has brooded without daring to express his fear.
Objective fears are usually more easily recognized and comparatively easy to overcome. Sometimes the child has forgotten the experience with which the fear was associated in the first place, but if it can be recalled the fear can be taken out of it by a straightforward explanation. Some children are afraid of anything new or strange, but they soon become accustomed to it if they are allowed to do so gradually. It is a mistaken notion that a child should be pushed into a situation where he is afraid in an effort to "train him." A little child who cries at his first experience of bathing in the big ocean is not helped by being thrown in, but on the contrary gets an experience of dread and fear of water which may not be easily overcome.
Fear of animals may occur at a very early age but usually passes off as soon as the child becomes accustomed to the sight of them, unless he has some especially unfortunate experience in being frightened either by the animal itself or by threats that the animal will get him if he is not a good boy. Many children are threatened with the policeman or the "bogie man." Sometimes mother speaks to the ragman and asks him to take a naughty boy away in his bag. It is particularly unfortunate when mothers use a threat of the doctor to frighten their children into obedience, for the time may come when a child's life may depend on a doctor's being able to get him to take treatment without crying or struggling. "The doctor cuts the fingers of little boys who touch things" is not good preparation for such an emergency.
Often fears are due to unpleasant experiences for which the parents are in no way to blame, and may even extend to things which are merely associated with the unpleasant experience. For instance, a child who has been hurt in a doctor's office may be afraid to enter any place which looks like a doctor's office. A book agent, with his black bag, may be a terrifying figure to such a child.
This is a very different thing from fears that are produced in the child's mind by threats, or the fears based on a real situation or by appealing to the child's courage to face his fears bravely. Children quickly adopt the attitude of their parents, be it one of bravery or fear. Many mothers wonder where their children get their fear of lightning or animals, forgetting that they themselves have shown fear when they thought the children were not noticing. Such was the case with little Ellen. Her mother thought the child inherited from her a fear of the dark and everything strange. Ellen would awake screaming at night, saying some one was climbing in at the window. Her mother compared this in the child's hearing to her own fear of being left alone of an evening when she thought every sound meant a lurking marauder. The mother had heard many ghost stories in childhood, and though she denied that she had ever told them to Ellen, she talked quite freely about them in her presence. It is not hard to see where this child's "inherited" fears originated.
If the child develops a fear of loud noises and flashes of light, such as thunder and lightning and firing of guns, he can overcome it only with the help of intelligent suggestion from the parents. He must see from their attitude that there is no occasion for fear. The mother who is terrified by these situations and whose fear is openly demonstrated before the child can be of no assistance to him. Imitation clearly plays an important part in the development and control of fear. This may be seen, for instance, if things go wrong at sea and a ship is in danger. One panic-stricken person may start a stampede for the lifeboats, whereas one calm and fearless officer can quell the impending panic and control the situation.
The subjective fears are very hard to trace back to their cause and to overcome. They are often so vague and intangible that an adult would not dream that a child could be thinking of such things. As Victor Hugo says in his "Recollections of Childhood," "But a thing once said sinks in the mind; that which has struck the brain often, from time to time comes back again, and in the breast of simple infancy lives unexplained full many a mystery."
For example, vague and poorly formulated ideas about death are the basis of more mental anxiety in children than is generally supposed. To one child death meant being buried in a hole, another child had a fear of being buried alive, and many children are disturbed by the line in the evening prayer which is familiar to most children. "If I should die before I wake." It would be impossible to state all the vague fantasies of childhood about this ever-present problem of death, but it should not be difficult to give the average child a conception of death and the hereafter which will do much to allay the common fears surrounding this mystery.
Another common fear which children have is that of being deserted by their parents. This undoubtedly is brought about in many instances by their having been told at some time or other that if they were not good their parents would go away and leave them. Some parents even wrap them up and say they are going to give them away. One mother, who had to go to a hospital for a week's treatment, told her little girl, 3 years old, that she was going out to buy a loaf of bread. The child watched at the window for her mother to come back, and when hour after hour passed she became terrified. Once she was taken past a huge building where she saw her mother in a bathrobe sitting at a window but could not speak to her. Weeks later, when mother was at home and well, this child could not sleep at night fearing that her mother would go away again if she closed her eyes. Fear of being deserted is not often expressed in words but more often in the attitude of the child toward the mother, so that separation, even for a moment, produces an unpleasant scene. A child with this hidden dread may give up games with other children in order to stay close to mother's side, and, even up to the age of 10 or 12, may return home frequently to make sure that mother is there.
Things said in jest may cause great anxiety to a little child. A man, now a college professor, relates how he suffered for weeks in boyhood because some one told him that if he ate bread and molasses, horns would grow on his head. He at once gave up eating that delicacy without explaining to anyone through fear that he would be laughed at. Then he imagined that he had lumps on his forehead. In a frenzy of anxiety he asked his mother if she could feel the horns, and she, thinking it was a part of some game, said, "Yes, I believe I do." The grown man still feels the pain of that experience.
Fear is a driving force in human conduct. It makes us do things; it keeps us from doing them. It protects from danger, and without a reasonable amount of fear mankind could not live. It is useless to talk about eradicating fear, but in training the child every effort should be made to see that fear does not become a curse instead of a means of protection. A child should fear punishment, danger, loss of the approval of those he cares for, and, when he becomes old enough to appreciate it, loss of the approval of his own conscience. He should not have to spend his early years weighed down by fears which make him nervous and sleepless at times, afraid to play happily or work with enthusiasm, all because some one found it convenient to get him to obey through fear or failed to help him by wise understanding and explanation at the right time to get rid of unpleasant experiences.
Problems for Discussion
1. Cite from your own experience examples of fears you suspect were learned by contagion from others in your family. To what extent do you think they are based on genuine danger?
2. What effect on the child's attitude toward you do you suppose using fear as a means of discipline has?
3. How would you go about helping a child to overcome fear of other people (timidity)? How could mutually shared projects, such as group games and toys enjoyed in common re-condition a child so that fear would be replaced by enjoyment in associating with others? Show how unpleasant social experiences might have the opposite effect on the shy child.
4. What would you expect the effect to be on the young child when the mother is constantly anxious and fearful? What would be the likely effect on a child near maturity? Discuss the mental hygiene and significance of "courage is contagious."
5. Why should a child who must go to the dentist and be hurt not be told there is nothing to fear, that it won't hurt? How would you fortify the child against such inevitable experiences?
6. Did Christ teach the Gospel by using primarily love or fear? What do you think this fact has had to do with the great influence Christianity has had over mankind?
MY SONG By Adeline Rasmussen Ensign
I sang a song, a blithesome song, I felt so light and gay, I thought I sang it to myself And went upon my way.
But other folk there were who heard, For ere the last note died There came an echo of my song It seemed from every side.
And other steps are lighter now, And other hearts more gay, For other folk are singing now And joyful is their day.
LITTLE BOY By Theora Jensen Box
Little Boy, there's wonder in your deep blue eyes, You're quite a mite to tackle such a job. You're just a babe, who's started on this trek of life; It's rough and rocky, so believe in God.
Little Boy, there's trouble and there's sorrow here, Enough to down a tiny lad like you. But there's smiles and sunshine just beyond the clouds, And if you'll keep faith, the sun will soon shine through.
Little Boy, may you grow up to be a man, The kind of man God meant His boys to be. Be good, and live a decent sort of life, my son! For Little Boy, you're God's best gift to me.
Only GAS HEAT gives you ALL these advantages
• 100% automatic operation • Smokeless, stokeless, dustless, ashless • No moving parts to wear out • No ordering of fuel • No storage space required • Fuel of uniform quality • Fuel of uniform price
Many families, using all-gas service, heat their homes with gas for less money than they formerly paid for other fuels. Ask us for details.
MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY Serving 21 Utah Communities
Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 A. M. To 5 P. M. 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
PLAN NOW TO GIVE BOOKS
Christmas Books are appropriate gifts for every occasion—without them no Christmas is complete
Headquarters for Christmas gifts of all kinds
DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3286
36 South State Wasatch 1300
GUARANTEED The World's Finest Coal Stoker
Good Housekeeping as advertised therein
Fairbanks-Morse & Co. See Your Fairbanks-Morse Stoker Dealer Today
Royal Coal Company INTERMOUNTAIN DISTRIBUTORS Newhouse Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
L. D. S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES
No. 68. Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, Old Style 85c—New Style $.65 No. 500. Super Non-run Rayon, Short Sleeves and Knee Length....1.10 No. 70. Lt. Wt. Fine Combed Cotton...1.00 No. 73. Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton Silk Stripe, Ladies' New Style Only....1.25 No. 64. Med. Wt. Combed Cotton....1.25 No. 62. Hvy. Wt. Double Back Combed Cotton....1.60 No. 56. Extra Hvy. Wt. Double Back Combed Cotton....1.98 No. 82. 33 1-3% Wool....2.15 No. 170. 10% Wool Silk Stripe....2.25
Please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted; also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 10c. Postage prepaid. 20% extra for 48 and over.
Visit our smart new men's shop when in Salt Lake. Headquarters for missionaries.
Salt Lake City, Utah
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid.
No. 144. Light weight cotton, New or Old Style.....$1.00 No. 908. Heavy Weight Cotton Ecru or Old or New Style.....$1.75 No. 33. Spring Needle. Lt. Wt. Cot. New or Old Style....1.25 No. 472. Elastic Knit, Light Weight, New Style Only....1.25 No. 205. Fine rib, Med. Weight, New or Old Style....1.85 No. 609. Run resist rayon, Ladies' New Style Only....1.50 No. 405. Run resist rayon, New or Old Style....1.50 No. 758. Ecru or White, Med. Heavy Old and Men's New Style....1.65 No. 464. Rib. Knit, Med. Weight, New or Old Style....1.45 No. 493. Light Wt. Cot., New Style Only....65
Established in Utah 45 Years
Marking 10c
BARTON & CO. 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!
For the high school or college graduate, we offer professional training in all commercial subjects. A course here will enable your son or daughter to qualify for the better positions that business has to offer—a position that means financial independence, responsibility, and the opportunity to grow.
Write or Call for Full Information
L. D. S. Business College 70 No. Main Salt Lake City Wasatch 1812
You can order your CHRISTMAS CARDS early. There is a definite advantage in making your selection while our stock is complete. You get just the card you want, at the price you want to pay, and you are free to attend to the other many details incidental to the approach of the holidays. Come in NOW.
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS PIONEER PRINTERS AND BINDERS OF THE WEST 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City
LIFE INSURANCE The Gateway to Security
SECURITY against material wants is one of man's greatest desires. The husband wants security for his wife. Both want security for their children and for themselves, so that the years of their old age will be mellow and peaceful. Life insurance offers that security. By means of a well-planned life insurance program, parents can not only secure their children's future against want, but can guarantee themselves an income during their old age. Consult your local Beneficial agent regarding a planned life insurance program.
If It's a Beneficial Policy It's the Best Insurance You Can Buy
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
HOME OFFICE——BENEFICIAL LIFE BLDG., SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT
GENERAL AGENTS DAVID PETERSEN, OGDEN, UTAH E. J. SORENSEN, LOS ANGELES, CALIF. L. D. GREENWOOD, IDAHO FALLS, IDAHO ROY UTLEY, LOS ANGELES, CALIF. R. F. COTTLE, BOISE, IDAHO ARCHER WILLEY, OAKLAND, CALIF. H. M. ROLLINS, LYMAN, WYOMING GEO. A. ZUNDEL, CHICO, CALIF. ALLEN CAMERON, PHOENIX, ARIZONA THOS L. SMART, RENO, NEVADA THOS. H. ROBINSON, SEATTLE, WASH.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Volume XXIII DECEMBER, 1936
HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS From Factory To You—We Solicit Your Mail Orders
No. 88. Lt. Weight Men's and Ladies' New Style....$.65 No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style....1.10 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back....1.45 No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style, Double Back....1.50 No. 86. Extra Fine Rayon and Double Combed Yarn. Ladies' New Style Only....1.25 No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles....$.85
We Charge 10% Extra For Extra Sizes. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. We Mark Garments For 10c.
No. 84 Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style....85 No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Rayon, Men's and Ladies' New Style Only....1.10 No. 83. Extra Fine Silk-Rayon Double Combed Yarn. Better Than Part Wool. This Comes in Winter Weight Men's New Style....1.65
New Style, Button Side. Guaranteed Non-Run-Rayon. Ladies'....1.25
Please Specify When Ordering Your Bust. Trunk and Length, Whether New or Old Style, and if Men's or Ladies'.
THIS IS ALSO THE PLACE TO OUTFIT THE MISSIONARY WITH ONE OF THOSE FAMOUS RAMBOULLETTE SUITS
This is one of our Specials Our Famous WE HAVE A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF HEAVY WORSTEDS AT
Ramboullette Serge. $21.15 Extra Single or Double Breast. Extra Pants, $4.00
WE ALWAYS GIVE SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO THE MISSIONARY
14 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
THINK OF IT IN TERMS OF Local Employment
Every time you patronize a Utah Oil service station or dealer, you help this company to maintain employment of local workers, our neighbors and friends. These employees in turn spend their money with local grocers, clothiers and other lines of business—thus adding to business activity locally, which helps everyone in the community.
Utah Oil products are famous for quality—MOTOR OIL designed to give your car more economical and satisfactory performance in every season of the year.
UTAH OIL REFINING COMPANY Hundreds of Stations and Dealers in Utah and Idaho Distributors of Atlas Tires, Batteries, Accessories... And Stanolind Products
A. SCHILLING'S BAKING POWDER
Like all Schilling's products. A. Schilling & Company place their name and reputation behind their baking powder and our prices are cheap indeed—6 oz. Can 15c, 12 oz. Can 27c.
O. P. SKAGGS Efficient Service FOOD System "A SURETY OF PURITY"
Service Above All
SALT LAKE PROVO OGDEN PRICE PAYSON MANTI
HOME OWNED HOME OPERATED
1st South at 3rd East—17th South at 5th East South Temple at 2nd East
We Give and Redeem Trading Discount Stamps. "We Feature" Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XXIII DECEMBER, 1936 No. 12
CONTENTS
A Prayer............................Velma Brinkerhoff Carroll 735 Frontispiece.................................................736 Contributions of Joseph Smith........................Stephen L. Richards 737 "Evergreen and Folly"..............................Maryhale Woolsey 742 Treasure from the East...............................Carlton Culmsee 749 What Did the Prophet Joseph Smith Do For Women?..........Ruth May Fox 750 It's Days Before Christmas..........................H. R. Merrill 752 Keeping Up With Santa.............................Virginia B. Jacobsen 753 Thoughts of Mary..................................Lottie Hammer Singley 757 At Memorial Cottage................................Alice R. Rich 757 An Old Fashioned Christmas.........................Zipporah L. Stewart 758 On the Trails of the Old Kaibab....................Elsie C. Carroll 763 Why Build Monuments?..............................Mary Grant Judd 768 Happenings.......................................Annie Wells Cannon 771 The Magic of Christmas............................Claire Stewart Boyer 772 Notes From the Field..............................Julia A. F. Lund 774 Notes to the Field.............................................777 Editorials: God's Gift................................................778 A Benefactor to Mankind................................779 Congratulations.......................................779 Change of Address.....................................779 Unemployment Relief in Periods of Depression...........780 "The Soul's Fire"....................................780 Dangerous Toys.......................................780 Lesson Department..........................................780 Magazine Drive............................................798 My Ship's Name.......................................Annie Pike Greenwood 805
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 • Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
American Beauty Washer Dexter Washers An entire new method in washing REDUCED Easiest in the world on clothes $5.00 to $30.00
THE ROUND OAK RANGE $69.50 "America's Finest"
GRANITE FURNITURE Co. 1050 East 21st South Sugar House Out of the high rent district
VANITY FOOTWEAR
There's A Style For Every Taste
HAPPY HIKERS It's a new Thrill in Walking— try them in Brown or Smoke Elk, Combination Last.
$4.95 Others at $2.95
WAIPPLE'S SLIPPER SHOPPE State & Third South, or State & Sixth South
TEMPLE BRAND L. D. S. GARMENTS
36 years experience insures quality and gives you underwear at reasonable prices.
REMEMBER—We pay Postage to any place in the United States We are the Manufacturers of ALL APPROVED L. D. S. GARMENTS
Regular Style For Men Regular Style For Women 760 Non-Run Rayon...............1.00 610 Light Weight Spring Needle...1.10 762 Non-Run Rayon...............1.15 614 Medium Weight Extra Quality...1.25 792 Fine Quality Cotton Lisle....1.25 664 Med. Heavy Wt. Cot. Double Back 1.50 734 Non-Run Super Bemberg Silk...1.25 634 Non-Run Super Bemberg Silk...1.35
Garments Marked Upon Request. 10c Per Pair Extra 20% Extra Charge for Sizes Over 48
Do not fail to specify New or Old Style and if for Man or Woman. Also state if long or short sleeve, short or long legs are wanted. Give accurate Bust Measurements. Height and Weight. Samples Sent Upon Request.
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah—OLDEST KNITTING STORE IN UTAH
We give and redeem S. & H. Green Trading Stamps
703 Flat Weave Spring Needle........98 719 Ribbed Med. Light Wt. Cotton...1.10 760 Silk and Wool Medium Weight...1.95 Your book is worth $2.50
620 Medium Lt. Wt. Double Back.....98 602 Extra Fine Quality Lisle......1.25 660 Silk and Wool Medium Weight...1.95
THE ANSWER!
Tasty sandwiches made with FISHER'S VITAMIN D BREAD are the answer to the question, "What shall I serve?"
FISHER'S VITAMIN D BREAD is fortified with sunshine Vitamin D.
Product of AMERICAN LADY BAKING CO. "The Big Home-Owned Bakery"
For Christmas and other special occasions, serve Fisher's Paradise Fruit Cake.
Every Quart Is "Quality"
Day by day, ARDEN MILK consistently measures up to its high standard of quality, purity and flavor. It is always good—and good to the taste. Arden Milk is chosen at the source, the producers are paid a premium price. It reaches your table protected and guarded. Its rich, pure flavor appeals to all the family. Phone for a day's delivery. Test Arden by taste. Every quart is "quality."
ARDEN DAIRY Phone Wasatch 80
PLAN NOW TO GIVE BOOKS
Christmas Books are appropriate gifts for every occasion—without them no Christmas is complete
Headquarters for Christmas gifts of all kinds
DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah
UTAH'S HOUSEHOLD FAVORITE FUEL
BLUE BLAZE COAL COMPANY 1111 Walker Bank Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
The Relief Society Magazine VOL. XXIII - DECEMBER, 1936 No. 12
Contributions of Joseph Smith By Stephen L. Richards of the Council of the Twelve
(Address delivered at the Semi-Annual Conference of the Church Oct. 2, 1936.)
I SHALL attempt to enumerate briefly the unique and distinctive contributions of Joseph Smith. I shall not try to appraise their relative importance or set them forth in logical or chronological sequence. Most of these contributions are in the field of theological doctrine. Some, however, are of a more temporal nature.
I NAME first a new conception of God and the Godhead. There can be no doubt that in the religious world of the Prophet's boyhood there prevailed a very nebulous and uncertain doctrine with reference to the personality of God and the personages of the trinity. The creedal statements of the day appear to us now as being most difficult of interpretation and understanding if not wholly unintelligible. To this situation the First Vision brought clarity, definiteness and certainty, not as the product of reasoning, argument and sophistication but with the sureness of experience. When Joseph came out of the grove he had no need to argue for a theory,—he knew the facts. God is in form like man. He has a voice. He speaks. He is considerate and kind. He answers prayer. His Son is a like but distinct person. He is obedient to the Father and the mediator between God and man. The presumption of God as a mere essence or principle of power and force in the universe was for all time exploded. The testimony is direct and positive and irrefutable. Many have not believed but no one has ever had the knowledge to disprove it. The character of the Holy Ghost as a member of the Godhead came to the Prophet later through revelation with a clarity and definiteness exceeding other scriptural pronouncements on the subject. He set forth, "The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of spirit. Were it not so, the Holy Ghost could not dwell in us." The identity and functions of the Holy Ghost are differentiated from those of the Holy Spirit.
SECOND, I point out a new conception of the nature of the priesthood. I pass by the restoration of the priesthood on which there is testimony of a character entitling it to admissibility in any tribunal, because the restoration postulates a withdrawal of the priesthood from men, which is a controversial subject. On the nature, duties and offices of the priesthood, however, I look in vain for any definitions comparable to those given by the Prophet. First there is the wide distribution of the powers and offices of the priesthood among men and boys of the Church. This was a complete innovation so far as modern Christian practice is concerned. None but a selected few had ever claimed or held the right before, although there is respectable historical evidence, not known to the Prophet, to warrant the belief that the same practice was extant in the early church. But even more important in its novelty do I regard the new constitution of the priesthood as revealed through Joseph Smith. To my thinking there is nothing more beautiful or truly Christ-like in all scripture than this lovely exposition of the divine commission to men to act in the name of God. Listen:
"Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen?
"Because their hearts are set so much on the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson—
"That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness.
"That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man." (Doctrine and Covenants 121:34-37, Incl.)
"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned;
"By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile—
"Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy;
"That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death.
"Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven.
"The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever." (Doctrine and Covenants 121:41-46, Incl.)
Here is the genius of the government of Christ. No compulsion,— just persuasion; no unrighteousness or autocracy,—only goodness and love. Here is the answer to the religious intolerance and crimes of the centuries; the complete refutation of the alleged injustice of God.
I MENTION next the matter of new revelation. While this subject is highly important, I need not elaborate it,—first, because it is well understood both within and without the Church; and second, because its novelty has never been denied. I do not mean that the validity of the revelations to Joseph Smith have not been denied. They have,—but all concede the principle and practice to be an innovation. All logical persons will likewise concede that this doctrine once established is the end of all controversy as to authoritative religion.
THEN comes the new concept of man, his past, present and future state. I do not maintain that ideas had not been advanced, prior to the Prophet's time, that were in some respects comparable to his. Undoubtedly the pre-existent state of man was in the belief of many. It could not be otherwise with students of the Bible, but no such comprehensive, coherent, and definite understanding as that set forth by the Prophet had ever appeared before. The continuity of intelligence and intelligencies; the fatherhood,—and motherhood too, of our individual spirits; the free agency and choice which were ours in the pre-earth life; spiritual creation preceding mortal creation; the relationship of body to spirit in this life and in the hereafter, the transcendent scheme of eternal progression,—all these and many related items constitute a unified, logical, authoritative exposition without counterpart in Christian literature.
Of special interest is the concept of the body as tabernacle of the spirit. A philosophy of temporal living has been built around this idea. In it a man's body is a sacred thing. It is not his own to be violated with impurity. God provided it in the form of and as the house of his spirit. Any conscious, willful impairment of the body is an affront to God. And so it follows that the care of the body has real spiritual significance. It is doubtful if any religious body at any time ever received a more unique and novel doctrine than the Word of Wisdom, the inhibitions of which are known to many but the underlying philosophy of which is understood by few. CLOSELY related to the state of man is the concept of the whole human family as the children of God. On this subject many entirely new contributions were made by Joseph Smith. He established the universal justice and love of God for all His 739 children as no one else has ever done. His theology denies the resurrection to none. All shall come forth from the grave; all bodies shall be reunited with spirits to constitute eternal souls, through the universal redemption of the Savior. There will be general salvation for all in the sense in which the term is generally used, but salvation, meaning resurrection, is not exaltation. In_the hereafter, as in this life, there are degrees of glory, preferential places and conditions. Goodness and obedience will bring their rewards, the highest of which is to dwell in the presence of God and His Son. The prescribed requirements of the Gospel, such as baptism, confirmation, and other ordinances are not prerequisites for the resurrection as many suppose. They are necessary only for exaltation,—the highest station. Exaltation is not planned merely for a few select ones. It is designed for all who will prepare to enter the Kingdom. Everyone is given the opportunity to prepare, not only those living but they who have died, as well. Such is the justice of the Father. THAT brings me to another inestimable contribution, wholly distinctive and novel. Strange it is that with the rather frequent mention in the Hebrew scriptures of temples and with the pointed and oft quoted reference to baptism for the dead that Joseph Smith should have been the first of all Christians to conceive the purpose of temples and institute vicarious work for the dead. This great project of the latter days deserves an extended treatise of itself. It must suffice for my present purpose merely to call attention to it. In its ramifications and comprehensiveness it embraces 740 substantially the entire scope of the Gospel. The story of life is simplified for the understanding of men. Through the eternal powers of the restored priesthood ordinances and ceremonies are administered in preparation for entrance into the Celestial Kingdom of our God and the dead who have lived without opportunity to enjoy these high privileges are accorded, through the service of their kinspeople, the same rights as those who live. ONE of the features of temple work should for emphasis be specially mentioned. It is the sealing of husband and wife in the eternal covenant of marriage. Joseph Smith taught that the family circle is the foundation of exaltation and that its projection into eternity is heaven itself. He sanctified the association of loved ones. He made the father a priest and the mother a priestess in the temple of the home. If his glorious interpretation of this divine institution could have general application, the ills of society would be cured and the brotherhood of mankind established. This contribution alone entitles him to a place on the very summit of distinction among the world's philosophers and benefactors. "T'HE limitations of this opportunity prevent any further elaboration of additional items within the scope of my theme. I must pass them with bare mention. The organization of the Church; its phenomenal growth; its quorums, divisions, agencies, authorities, officers; its incomparable missionary system were all the product of the inspiration, the wisdom and vision of the Prophet. He was also a builder of cities, a statesman of great foresight and such a leader of men that even RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE after death his influence has grown with the years. HIS literary iabors must not be forgotten. He produced more scripture, that is the revealed word of God, than any other man of whom we have record. Indeed his total scriptural productions would almost equal those of all others put together. Within the pages of the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price, which came to the world through him, are to be found such truth gems as "The glory of God is intelligence;" "Men are that they might have joy;" "It is the work and the glory of God to bring to pass the immortality andeternal life of man;" a clear statement of the purpose of good and evil in the world; a philosophical problem which has baffled the scholars of all times and many others of inestimable value. There also came from him such memorable sayings as "Man cannot be saved in ignorance;"' "We are saved no faster than we learn;" "Whatever knowledge a man acquires in this life will go with him into the life to come." He wrote history and dissertations on many subjects and was an orator of magnetism and convincing force. THE world's enlightenment of the century following his life has not disclosed a single error in his theological and philosophical pronouncements and the society which he established is without question the peer and many students not belonging to it maintain it is the superor of all social systems on the earth. WHAT is the explanation? How may we account for these remarkable accomplishments, these transcendent contributions to the CONTRIBUTIONS OF JOSEPH SMITH learning, the knowledge and wisdom of this age? The critics of Joseph Smith have ridiculed him. They have emphasized the crudity of his youth, his lack of education and deprecated his intelligence. In so doing, have they helped find the explanation? Perhaps they have, without intent on their part, for the more inadequate by native endowment and training they make the Prophet, the more certainly do they lead the way to the inevitable conclusion that the explanation he makes of himself and his work is the only explanation. If he had been proved to be a person of unusual brilliance and education there might have been some warrant for the presumption that out of his own mind he had conceived and executed all, but those who have sought to destroy him have robbed the argument of that premise. Perhaps God willed it so. Even the inimical and abusive typesetter who printed the Book of Mormon unwittingly laid a stone in the foundation of evidence establishing the truth of the Prophet's account of the translation when he ridiculed the punctuation and composition of the manuscript, the sentences and words being run together as they naturally. Would be in the manner of dictation to the scribe described by the Prophet. HERE is only one explanation which is tenable. God chose this man. He spoke through him. The virgin, unsophisticated mind of the youth was a fertile field for the planting of spiritual seeds. They grew and matured into a perfect faith that brought Joseph into partnership with God. When that came 741 to be there was nothing unattainable, for as we are told of old, one man and God are a majority. Today we proclaim him Prophet and sing his praise as sincerely, as devoutly, as reverently as they did one hundred years ago when they sat in his presence and felt the inspiration of his influence and heard the word of God from his lips. "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! Jesus anointed that 'Prophet and Seer'— Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him and nations revere." I would seem scarcely necessary to point out the obvious conclusion and purpose of this recital. If any man has received in his heart the witness of the divine truth embraced in the contributions of the Prophet Joseph, I charge him to be true,—true to his testimony, true to the Prophet, the founder, true to the 'cause and its duly commissioned leaders, true to the covenants he has made in holy places, and true to the brotherhood of man in the service that he renders. If any man has not receiyed this witness, I appeal for his thoughtful, prayerful, sympathetic consideration. I offer to him, out of the experiences of my life, a humble but certain assurance that if he will receive and apply the teachings of Joseph Smith he will be made happy. Doubt and uncertainty will leave him. Glorious purpose will come into life. Family ties will be sweeter. Friendships will be dearer. Service will be nobler, and the peace of Christ will be his portion. I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. "Evergreen and Folly" By Maryhale Woolsey NOW was falling; a biting wind hurled the flakes viciously against faces and inside coatcollars. But the high spirits of the Christmas-Eve shopping crowd defied the discomforts of the storm. Cheeks glowed; eyes peered narrowly but merrily above close-drawn furs and tighty-clutched packages; voices rose with increased good cheer. Even the colored lights of the street decorations seemed to sparkle and glow more festively. Edward Thane, warm and comfortable inside his big black limousine, viewed the scene in his usual detached manner. Distinctly alien, more than a little intolerant, he felt himself to be—apart from all the world at this season when goodwill was the expressed order. Christmas had long since ceased to mean anything to Ed Thayne personally. An able secretary discharged the few duties he felt obligatory—sending a few cards, giving to a half-dozen preferred charities, preparing "bonuses" for presentation to a few employees of long standing. That would be about all. And even that mattered but little. Before the glittering facade of Thayne's, Incorporated, the limousine stopped, double-parked—for the "Private Parking Only" sign had been completely ignored. The chauffeur opened the door and stood attentively while The Boss climbed out. "You may as well have the evening, Parks," Thayne said. "I'll take a taxi home." "Thank you, sir. It's—Merry Christmas, then, Mr. Thayne." Thayne nodded acknowledgment. "Make a family day of it. I'll not want you before three or four— maybe not then. I'll call you." Parks glowed. "Say—thanks a million, sir"— But The Boss was picking his way gingerly between two parked cars; the chauffeur watched him cross the slushy sidewalk and disappear into the store. Then, springing lightly to his seat, Parks was on his way, grinning for all the world to see. Holiday bound! The Boss, walking with bent head and looking neither to right nor left, went directly to his office on the mezzanine. Seated there at his desk, he could, by turning a little in his chair, look out over a wide sector of the store's main floor, now thronged with shoppers. The scene, though colorful, gave him no particular pleasure save his satisfaction with the business outlook. He asked himself why he had come downtown tonight. He was not needed here; his organization functioned smoothly and efficiently under the guiding hand of the acting manager—who was expected to assume complete control of the establishment within a few years. It was almost as much his concern now as it was Thayne's, who had spent forty years developing his business and found it his one real interest, his only hobby, and his strongest habit. Yet Thayne knew that even that did not explain why he had chosen not to remain at home this evening. Rather, he could not endure to remain at home—not among the inevitable Christmas greens with which Hawkins and his Missis had decked "EVERGREEN AND FOLLY" the rooms and made gay the windows. From those, he wanted invariably to run away; tonight, he had felt that he must run away. YEAR after year,—twelve of them had now marched past since his house had become silent and lonely —The Boss had resolved to order his faithful servants to omit the holiday decorations. But he could never bring himself to issue the command. And regularly on the eighteenth of December, Hawkins would bring in the holly and branches of evergreen, and a sprig—the finest he could find —of mistletoe to place above the portrait of Genevieve -Thayne which hung above the library mantle. Mistletoe had been Vieve's delight. "Never forget, Hawkins," she'd told him many times, 'mistletoe over my picture at Christmas-time Remembering, Ed Thayne experienced that sharp pang that always came with the thought of Genevieve. Unseeingly he fingered the gold inkwell, a part of the handsome desk set which his office force had today presented to him. Beside the inkwell stood the set of Kipling, in tooledleather bindings, which was the department managers' collective gift. He sighed, knowing the anxious thought and discussion behind the selection of these things that meant so little to him, though he was not unappreciative. He knew they found it difficult, choosing things for The Boss, who "had everything." "Everything" meaning all the things that other people wished for and could not afford to buy, but nothing that, after all, mattered very greatly. Ed Thayne would have given his "everything" gladly if for one day he could have Genevieve back with him. But then—his lips twisted ironically—Genevieve would not have en- 743 joyed that day! Vieve had so loved the things money could buy. Her lovely home, clothes, jewels, fun. She loved glitter and excitement. She had reveled in the Christmas-New Year season, when there were parties galore and everyone seemed intent on throwing their responsibilities to the winds and going quite mad with pleasure. That time when she was not feeling so well, and he had remonstrated with her, urged her to stay in and rest and be taken care of,—she'd laughed and said, "After awhile, dear—not now! After awhile—it will be too soon— I shall be old, and stiff in the joints, and—maybe—quite content to sit by the fire and knit. But it will be horrid—" and her beautiful eyes grew somber, holding for a moment an expression of stark fear. Her fear of growing-old time——Lovely Genevieve, who'd had no need to fear old age, since it would never overtake her! She had cast the mood aside. "T'll rest a lot next week, Ed," she'd said prettily. "There's only tonight and tomorrow night, and then the holidays are over for another year. Don't gloom tonight, dear, please! You know it's such a long time until another season of evergreen and holly." "Evergreen and—folly!" he'd answered her, unable to keep a certain sharpness out of his voice. "Sometimes, my darling, I wonder if we're not all a little crazy at this time of year! Dancing all night, eating all day—if we're awake enough!— rushing all hours. |What's it all about, anyway?" Then, because she had looked hurt, he'd added hastily, "Good gracious, my dearest, don't mind me! Dance forever, if you wish —and I believe you'd like to! I 744 think you must be Youth incarnate, Vieve darling, and will never grow old. So we'll run along to your evergreen and folly, as much and as long as you say!" "Evergreen and folly”—he was pleased with that. And "You'll never grow old—" had brought him her brightest smile. Poor little pun! An unwitting prophecy! Disregarding her "bit of a cold," they'd gone out with their crowd in a heavy snowstorm, singing hilariously through cold, wet streets, their welcome to Vieve's last New Year. And ever since, Ed Thayne had hated and dreaded the coming of each Christmas-time. If only he could run away from it—but where could one escape Christmas? THE jingle of bells, a rising din of shouts and laughter, recalled The Boss to the present. He stepped out to the railing at the edge of the mezzanine, looked down. Below, a jolly Santa Claus was pretending to try to hide from a group of excited children. Small sleighbells on his wrists and boot-tops chimed merrily. Glancing upward, Santa raised one hand towards The Boss, shaking his bells with an extra flourish by way of salute. "Ain't we got fun, Ed!" he called, as his eyes, deep blue and sparkling with good humor, met the grayer blue of Thayne's. Then, observing a panting youngster about to clutch him, he dashed away, out of Thayne's range of vision. The Acting Manager stood beside The Boss. "Great guy, that Bill Garman," he commented. "Gets a bigger kick out of life than any of us." "No doubt. Still, he seems fitted for—better roles than that of a make-believe Santa Claus," Thayne RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE answered somewhat shortly, and turned away. He and Bill had been close friends once. What had become of that friendship?—Just petered out, he supposed, through diverging interests and ambitions. Ed, the successful merchant, with one goal in view. Bill, a sort of happy vagabond, adventuring through many fields and headed nowhere in particular so long as he had a good time. They just didn't stick together.... And now, when both were growing old, Bill played Santa Claus in Ed's mercantile palace, and was glad of a job. Thayne sighed. Rummaged in a drawer for some papers and looked through them without the slightest idea what they were about. Old ghosts were all around him... But they would be more poignantly persistent at home! JUST before closing-time he finally left his office and emerged into the storm, which was raging more furiously than before. He looked up and down the street for the taxi he had ordered, but there was none in sight. His eyes fastened on a figure just leaving the employees' entrance of Thayne's—a man whose shabby overcoat and pulled-down cap did not conceal a gay red-and-white Santa Claus costume beneath. The wind played with his coat-tails and with his long white beard; bells, muffled, jingled faintly. Bill—who would now be looking for another job. On a sudden impulse, Ed Thayne started towards him. He'd ask Bill to spend Christmas Day with him— auld lang syne, or something like that... Bill had not seen Ed; he was hurrying to cross the street. Ed hesitated—and at the moment, a swift gust of wind tore his hat off his head, and he turned to grab at it frantically and temperishly. In the "EVERGREEN AND FOLLY" same instant he heard a shrieking of automobile brakes, a man's shout, a woman's scream. People began running from every direction, and Thayne ran with them. "I saw it—the wind—blew his whiskers up over his eyes—he stepped backward—" a woman was crying hysterically. A child's terrified voice... "It's Santa Claus, Mama,—they hit Santa Claus!"... The mother, comforting him,—''Not Santa himself, dear—a helper—" Confusion, hubbub... An officer taking charge. The officer knew Ed Thayne, let him come nearer Thayne knelt beside Bill; called his name. There was a moan in answer. Someone said, ""Here,—my car—" At the hospital, after awhile, Bill looked out from a white maze of bandages and pillows. His bewildered gaze met Thayne's anxious one.. "Ain't we—got—fun, Ed," he murmured through a wry smile. "How'd I do it?" Thayne told him. "You'll be around again before long," he concluded. "Before long—but gee whiz—I forgot—I—" Bill struggled to rise. A nurse stepped forward, warningly. "Something I can do for you, Bill?" Thayne asked. Bill's distress increased. "T don't know, Boss—you could —only you wouldn't," he said enigmatically. '"Maybe you could find someone who would, though. You see—I promised to be Santa Claus at a kids' party—girl I know is giving it. I can't disappoint her,—she's been good to me; biscuits and things, you know—" he grinned. "She's my next-door neighbor. I was hurrying to get to her place when J— 745 got—this; I remember now. Say, what time is it?" "Nine four," Thayne told him after a glance at his watch. "Good Lord!" Bill groaned. "I was to be there at eight-thirty! Ed, you'll have to do it! Not time to find someone else—those kids will be heart-broken—" Again he tried to 'sit up, and again the nurse warned him back. "Sure, Bill,' Thayne said, and instantly regretted it, "T'll do it." Bill relaxed. 'You're a pal! You can wear my outfit—Nurse, did I mess up that Santa suit?" "Not too much. The wig—but I'll make him one out of some cotton," the nurse promised. "Bully for you!" Bill applauded her. "Hurry, Ed—and when you're ready I'll tell you how to get there, and—and—all that." The young nurse "hurried" willingly. This was her first Christmas Eve on duty, and she'd been rather blue and lonely. But now it was turning into an adventure—helping the great Mr. Thayne into a Santa Claus suit! Feeling an utter fool, Thayne went back to undergo Bill's grinning inspection. "Okay, pal—you'll do—and it'll be good for you, too; fun! But—rush!" "THAYNE rushed, his brain in a fuddle. "Fun—good for him!" —good for Ed Thayne, who hated Christmas. Good heavens! What does one say when impersonating Santa Claus for a bunch of kids, anyway? The girl who'd been good to Bill —"'with biscuits and things'—was shocked, sympathetic, grateful, kind. All at the same time. She dispelled Thayne's panic inside of three minutes. He played a game with the children, made wise-cracks—good- 746 ness knows how!—and distributed gifts. And then he told them that it was 'way past bedtime (his fault, for being late, but they must '"'scoot"' now), and besides, he had to be on his way to—everywhere! A PALE boy with worried brown ' eyes slipped through the door ahead of him. "Mr. Santa Claus—" "Yes, sonny?" "I. Was wondering, Mister, if you're not too awfully in a hurry—_ if you could— Not more than ten, Thayne noted mentally, wondering at the child's agitation. He bent down and took the thin hand, surprised at the tenderness that swept over him. "What can I do for you, my boy?" he asked, smiling; expecting some childish request for gifts, and wondering what he should say in reply. "Well, you see, Mister—my little sister, she's been sick and couldn't come to the party, and she feels just awful bad 'cause she didn't get to see you—I mean Santa Claus—at all this year. Could you come to see her, just for a minute or two?—It's only two doors down the street, and up one stairs. And—and—you see, she thinks you're real yet; she's only four and a half—" Thayne experienced a shock, realizing the sad superior wisdom of ten years—over four-and-a-half. "You just show me the way," he said. The little girl had eyes like the boy's,—big and dark and clear, in a pale little face. A face whose gravity Thayne thought, was too marked for such a tender age. Something about her took hold of his heart, as she stared up at him so believingly and then sat up in her bed. The boy hastened to draw a blanket around her shoulders. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Moms said you must keep something around you, Sistie!"' "But I'm warm enough, and I'm lots better, too," Sistie said, and held eager hands to Thayne. "Santa Claus! Did you come just to see me?" "Sure I did. I heard you couldn't come to see me, so I ran in to—to wish you a Merry Christmas." "You're nice," she said. Down by me." He sat down awkwardly on the edge of the bed. Something to say— "What's your name, my dear? I —er—seem sort of mixed up tonight, there are so many names." She laughed at that, wrinkling her nose and displaying tiny white teeth within a mouth of entrancing curves. "T'm Genevie. Didn't Jimmy tell you?" "She means Genevieve," Jimmy told Thayne ina whisper. But Sistie had heard. "That's what I said—Genevie," she began defensively. "T know," her brother hastened to assure her. "I just thought he didn't hear you, quite." Thayne heard without comprehending, for his thoughts had raced back over the years to that other Genevieve, who had held his heart in her two hands. He felt shaken and panicky. "Will you bring me a dolly, Santa Claus?—Not a big one but a cuddly little one?" Genevieve was asking, clinging eagerly to his fingers. He had no time then to reply, for in the doorway appeared a woman, young, but tired-old. She stood with her hand on the door knob, staring, while Thayne got to his feet. "That's my Momsie. She had to work tonight," Genevieve exclaimed. And, "Momsie! This is Santa Claus! He comed to see me, and I'm better, too." "Sit "EVERGREEN AND FOLLY" Jimmy hurried to explain "Santa's presence. "Thank you so much," the mother said, her eyes misty. "She wanted so much to see Santa." "T told him to bring me a dolly, Momsie," Genevieve returned to the topic of chief interest. "And Santa, Jimmy's a nawful nice boy, 'ceptin' he teases sometimes, but not much. Will you bring him some paints, 'cause that's what he'd like best?" Thayne bent over her, smiling. "T'll certainly do my best, Genevieve. You go to sleep now. I have to talk to your mother a moment, and then hurry away. I've such a lot of things to do!" "I know. You're 'most the busiest man there is, aren't you? I'll be good. I'm mostly good, aren't I, Momsie?" "T should say you are!" The mother kissed her. "Now good night, dear. Sleep tight!" "THE other room—apparently they had but the two—was a sort of kitchen-living-room. Thayne looked about curiously. Humble though it was, he noted, the Christmas "folly" had entered here also. Cheap little wreaths pinned to the curtains; a tiny artificial tree—obviously it had known service at other Christmases, for it was faded and scraggly — crowded into a small space against one wall. But above the tree, carefully tacked to the plaster wall, was something that caught and held Ed Thayne's attention. It was a picture, crudely done with wax crayons, of a child asleep in a manger; and beside the manger, a woman watching. There had been no attempt to draw her features; her draped robes hid her face and form. Yet there was something about the portrayal of her that was far more effective than detail, unless expertly 747 handled, could have been. Studied it, fascinated. "Jimmy did that," said Jimmy's mother. '"We—think he did pretty well, for a ten-year-old." "Remarkably well!' Thayne agreed. "It has something—more than just the lines and color. A— sort of—personality, I'd call it, I think." She nodded. 'We think it's because he loved it so—the story, I mean. You see—we've not been able to observe the—what you might call the material side of Christmas, very much; so we've stressed the spiritual. The children love the Bethlehem story—they know it by heart!' So Jimmy undertook to illustrate it." Jimmy, at his mother's side, allowed her without protest to tousle his dark hair. "T'll do a better one, some day," he said. "That's only the first time I've tried. Maybe I shouldn't ought to've tried it at all, till I'm bigger— and better. Drawing a picture of— the Lord Jesus—" He left the rest of his thought eloquently unsaid. Before the boy's adoring, sincere reverence, Thayne felt suddenly humbled. He thought with dismay of the worldly selfish years he'd lost, and longed unutterably to atone for them. When he could speak, he turned resolutely. "Tell you what, Jimmy. I'll be around after awhile, and don't you forget to hang up that stocking. I'll see what kind of painting paraphernalia I can find for a boy to practice with—a boy who's going to do fine things if he keeps his talent growing bigger—and better." "Gee, Mister!' Jimmie breathed. "You make it seem like—there's a really Santa Claus!" "Sometimes," Thayne said gravely," sometimes there really is. Not as often as should be, in this gloomy Thayne 748 old world; but once in a while, believe it or not, the old duffer really shows up. Will you step in and see if Genevieve's asleep? —- While I have a word with your mother?" "Sure. And—and—thanks a million!" Jimmy's parting look warmed Thayne's heart. "You're very kind, sir," the mother began, "but I'm afraid you really shouldn't think of doing more than you already have done." "Please!" he urged. I know what you're thinking—but you don't know what this will mean to me. You'll be shocked,—but I want to tell you—that 'tonight, here in this room, I've realized the meaning of Christmas. I must have known it, long ago—but forgotten." Her glance, clear and deep like her children's, questioned him. "For years," he explained, "almost as long as I can remember, in fact, Christmas meant to me and mine— just—gayety—frivolous good times. Then—something happened that— changed all that; there couldn't be— gayety, for me, any more. Since then, I've felt—-well—bitter, about it. Seeing people rush crazily into things; more festivities—they call them festivities!—than their bodies and minds can stand; more buying than their purses can afford—that's the sort of thing I mean. I've seen that only—I guess, because it was what I looked for. I've wished I could run away fromitall. It's been to me-——well, I've called it the season of 'evergreen and folly'." "Oh!"—the merest murmur of shocked sympathy. "Now—tonight—this." He turned again to Jimmy's work of art. "Not just the drawing, though it's amazingly good, and that boy must be encouraged and given opportunities fer development of his talent;—but the spirit back of the effort, has RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE spoken to me. This Santa Claus role—" he indicated his gaudy costume—"is new to me. Less than two hours ago, I would have refused it if I could have decently done so— but now, I'd like to carry it through, for your boy and girl. Not extravagantly—not to divert them from their spiritual observance, as you call it, of the day. But a few things they'd enjoy, perhaps some that they need, that Santa might bring them; I'd appreciate your letting me do it —for my own sake as well as theirs." She hesitated. "Besides," he added in a lower tone, and pleadingly, "it would be in memory of another lovely person whose name was Genevieve. She was all I had—and I lost her." That carried the point, as he might have known it would. "If it's possible to manage, at this late hour—" she began; but his joyous chuckle interrupted her. "I know exactly how—why, this minute, I own a whole store!" he answered, surprised at his own sudden lightness of heart. "T'll get the watchman to help—if he doesn't die of amazement first!" It was well past midnight when Thayne, his mind full of a thousand eager plans, arrived at the door of his waiting house. Ran up the steps, as he hadn't done in a long, long time. The door flew open and Hawkins, breathing a loud sigh of relief, stood by as The Boss entered. Inside, at the farther end of the hall, Hawkins' Missis and Parks were standing, their faces grave and anxious and all at once relaxing into their customary expressions of respectful waiting. Thayne, comprehending, was remorseful. "Great guns! You've been worrying about me!" he exclaimed. "Well, sir—yes, sir," Hawkins TREASURE FROM THE EAST "That is, sir, it 3? Said guardedly. Was most unusual, sir— The Missis came forward, and Parks followed. "You see, sir, after Parks told us—" "T just happened to drop in, sir,' Parks explained, "and mentioned you'd given me the evening— "So when it got awful late and you didn't come home, sir, we called him back to talk over what we might do. We were that anxious, sir?" "T'm—very sorry. I just didn't think," Thayne said astonishingly. More astonishingly still, he grinned at them. "But you should never be surprised at anything that happens in the season of evergreen and folly." "Yes, sir." Hawkins lifted one eyebrow ever so slighlty. —not anything, sir." He proceeded to relieve Thayne of overcoat and hat. Simultaneous gasps from all three servants greeted the disclosure of a "No, sir 749 decidedly soiled and mussed Santa Claus costume. "Oh, yes—you'll find the wig and beard in my coat pocket, Hawkins. They—er—got in my way." "Yes sir. I'll look after them, 3? Sir. "Well — getting on towards. Christmas morning, isn't it?" Thayne remarked. "Yes, sir. That is—" "Then, Merry Christmas to you all! I wish you were all having as much fun as I've had tonight; yes, sir,—I declare, it was fun. A little folly now and then—glorious folly! Never enjoyed myself so much. Goodnight!" "Yes, sir. Goodnight, sir." "Goodnight, Mr. Thayne." Thayne started up the stairs. His servants stood staring after him for a long moment, then they turned and stared at each other. The notes of an old Christmas carol drifted down to them... The Boss—was whistling, like any schoolboy.  TREASURE FROM THE EAST By Carlton Culmsee
Out of the East has rolled Wealth that is strange and fair— The sunset of jewels, the rainbow of silks, and rare Perfumes and fruits unknown to men of old.
But the fairest and strangest of all Was a book with a golden tale Of a Prince who wore no sword or coat of mail, Won no rich land, and seemed in shame to fall, But gave the world a breathing hope—and a Call!
This treasure from the East, This tale of stable-birth And the lad who rose from it to mold the earth, Is childhood's heritage and wonder-feast.
Let not a Christmas board Be lacking in this food, In the beauty and awe of the Manger and the Rood; Let every child of the nation's plastic horde Grow hale with faith in a glad, much-giving Lord.
What Did the Prophet Joseph Smith Do For Women? By Ruth May Fox
THE difference existing between the status of women industrially, socially, and economically a hundred years ago, and the present time has been, and is being discussed so frequently that the subject is worn almost thread-bare, therefore we pass by that phase of woman's advancement. The purpose of this article is to bring to the attention of Latter-day Saint women, especially, what they owe to the Prophet Joseph Smith for blessings and benefits that have come to them during the last century. As I contemplate the question, it looms so large that I am almost overwhelmed with amazement, and feel to exclaim—what has Joseph Smith not done for women? And I wonder whether my vision is clear enough, and my understanding keen enough to in anyway give an adequate answer.
A CENTURY ago America offered great inducements in a material way to any who wished to better their condition but had it not been for the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, many thousands would have remained in the old world. Through the faith and prayers of the Prophet, the gates of Heaven were unlocked, and a great light illuminated the world. Through him the Gospel of Jesus Christ was restored, and there came to those who accepted it a regeneration, a newness of life that displaced tyranny with love. This great blessing reacted upon women. Thousands were brought from a condition of arduous labor, and servitude to a land of liberty and freedom of conscience, where the very atmosphere taught them that they were individuals. This was but the beginning. Their posterity for generations to come will receive the benefits flowing from this God inspired movement.
WHEN the Prophet organized the Relief Society on March 17th, 1842, there were few, if any groups of women working in a public capacity, therefore it was a marvelous innovation for women to be given the responsibility of building up and managing an Institution which was eventually to become a system of organized charity throughout the Church, and also a means of educating and broadening their field of activity. True, it was natural, as the Prophet said, for women to have feelings of charity and benevolence, and that now they were placed in a situation in which they could act according to those sympathies God had placed in their bosoms. He very wisely told them to not go too fast, but to proceed cautiously, select their members with scrupulous care, for "zeal without knowledge was always dangerous." This organization was to be conducted with intelligence and faith in God, thus adding divine power to their own abilities, judgment, and initiative. Nevertheless the leaders were faced with grave responsibility. Without definite training they must pioneer the way, learn by experience to use powers and capabilities that they scarcely knew they possessed. Thus their energies were stimulated and there came a feeling of independence and a righteous ambition to develop their talents for the good of God's children, and their own happiness. Surely a mighty uplift had come to women.
In the beginning, according to the Bible, the Lord made woman to be a helpmeet to her husband, which plainly shows that man needed her assistance. And the woman that can help her husband most is the one who in addition to her family duties will develop her mind, and keep abreast with him religiously and intellectually that she may have sympathy for him and strengthen him in his work. The husband of such a woman "shall be known in the gates," which means that he shall be appointed to positions of trust and honor. Never at any time has the Lord branded his daughters as being inferior to his sons. But because of the prevalent idea that might made right, man subjugated woman. The Prophet Joseph Smith elevated her, placed her in her rightful position by the side of man. Indeed he explained that no man was perfect without the woman, neither is the woman perfect without the man.
COMMON consent is the rule in our Church. When the Church was organized, women voted independently as did the men. When the Prophet received revelations for the whole Church, it was for the benefit of all members. Moreover, the women were blessed—set apart to their various callings. Some were given the right to "expound the scriptures and exhort the Church." Indeed the Church could not be complete without man and woman working together. Therefore, the whole plan of salvation is for women, as well as men. There are no restrictions as to who may participate in the Temple services because of sex. The laying on of the hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost is also for women to receive if they are worthy. The reception of this spirit is a gift beyond price, verily a gift of God. It will lead, guide, and direct in every emergency if humbly sought for. It will explain and testify of the truth. Women do not receive the Priesthood, but a woman is privileged to be the companion of a man who does, and is entitled to the blessings of this holy order. To receive a blessing under the hands of one holding the holy Priesthood to do certain work is no small thing. No women outside of the Latter-day Saint Church have such a privilege.
WHAT woman knew that God was a personal being as also His Son, Jesus Christ, until that knowledge was revealed through Joseph the Prophet? What woman knew anything about pre-existence, where she came from, why she was here, or where she was going after death? What woman knew anything about eternal progression, that the righteous knowledge she obtained here would be the foundation of her further advancement in the next sphere of action? What woman knew anything of marriage for eternity or the reunion of family relationships in the hereafter?
HUNDREDS of years ago millions of mothers—I am not sure that there are not that many now—suffered untold agony because they had been taught that infants who died without baptism would go to an everlasting hell. A short time ago a poor mother, who had taken refuge with hundreds of others in the supposedly impregnable Fortress Alcazar, Madrid, Spain, was watching her two weeks old baby die with that awful fear in her heart. It so happened that a priest gained admission to the Fortress for a short time, and in answer to her pleadings: "Won't you baptize my baby?" responded to her request, which modified at least one agony. If the Prophet had done no other thing for women than to explode the fallacy of such a pernicious doctrine, his name should be immortalized.
TODAY thousands of women hold executive positions in the L. D. S. Church and have become real helpmates to the Bishops. Thousands of others visit the homes of the Saints and are veritable ministering angels in their several communities. That wonderful organization, The Singing Mothers, which is bringing joy and uplift to thousands of women, is an outgrowth of the teachings of the Prophet. Again I am led to exclaim, "What has not the Prophet Joseph Smith, through and by the authority of our Lord, Jesus Christ, done for women?"
IT'S DAYS BEFORE CHRISTMAS By H. R. Merrill
It's days before Christmas and in our small cot The kids are all dreaming of what Kris has got; They hope he has skates, and some trains and great dolls, And even bright nothings and such fol-der-ols.
I tell 'em that Kris is a practical guy, That worthless old gim-cracks he never will buy; He may bring a sweater, some socks, or a hat, Or mittens or corduroys and such stuff as that.
But, gosh, my heart bleeds when I think of a tree That's not rainbowed up with stuff just to see. I have it—there's Mary—as smart as a whip, And no one's seen slackers on me any trip.
By gum, we'll get busy and we'll do our stuff; We've got our two eyes and our hands—that's enough. I'll get my knife busy, my saw and my plane— Why that solves our problem—I'm happy again!
My Mary can make just the swankiest tricks That ever was dreamed of—No toys? Fiddlesticks! We'll cut and we'll fit and we'll paint and we'll draw— Such stuff as we'll have no Kris ever saw!
It's days before Christmas and in our small house We're busy, but bless you, we're as still as a mouse. And on Christmas morning some six pairs of eyes Will pay us for scheming—Oh, what a surprise!
Keeping Up With Santa By Virginia B. Jacobsen
FOUR year old Ronny eagerly confided to the department store Santa that he wanted a screw driver and a tow chain to pull his little cars. Christmas morning he stood blinking in amazement at the beautiful electric train and other toys under the Christmas tree. Of course, he was excited with the generous array of gifts, but something was wrong. "Santa made a mistake! He brought me a train instead of the screw driver and chain." His little voice trembled and two big tears tumbled down his rosy cheeks. "Perhaps he put them in your stocking," someone suggested. Sure enough, there they were right in the toe of his stocking, and what a thrilled little boy Ronny was. Daddy was very disappointed that Ronny was not more interested in the train, but Ronny had not yearned for a train for thirty years as Daddy had. Ronny had wanted the five cent chain and the ten cent screw driver for months and months, which made them mean much more to the little lad. We parents are rather inclined to interpret our children's desires and enthusiasms in relation to our own unfulfilled youthful yearnings. In this, we are somewhat selfish. Our selfishness or shortsightedness leads us to often make unwise purchases.
If Ronny had longed for an electric train for several years and had reached an age where he understood the operation of its several intricate switches, he would have treasured the gift until he was grown, and would have taken good care of it. Human nature seems to value most those things for which we work the hardest or wait the longest. If we buy little four-year-olds electric trains and such things, what will we give them when they are eight and nine, really old enough to want and value the gift?
WE are frequently extravagant because we spend so much more than we really need to. In this we are making the child selfish and greedy and are storing up trouble for ourselves in the future. We often buy large expensive toys when smaller cheaper ones would please the child just as much if not more. Last Christmas Nancy wanted a dolly washer. Her fancy was an inexpensive washer, but mother saw a beauty (costing three times as much). It pleased the mother's eye and appealed to her sense of good quality. It would last longer and looked so much more like a real electric washer. Christmas morning young Nancy was very disappointed. The expensive toy was not what she wanted, as in the case of Ronny. She set the washer back under the Christmas tree, where it stayed for several days. Yes, it will last longer than the one she wanted because she seldom uses it.
Of course the pendulum swings the other way when John wants something the parents can't really afford. Then comes the task of leading John to want something else. If we are skillful in handling the situation, John will never suspect that he has been persuaded to change his desire.
Parents are often confronted with the problem of "keeping up with the Joneses." All of Nancy's little friends are going to get something which we simply cannot afford for her. Just what can we do about it? Shall we indulge the child's desire to save her heart break, or shall we start right there to teach her self-denial and sacrifice for the good of others? If she is old enough to have this situation arise, she is old enough to reason with and learn wholesome self-sacrifice. The far-sighted parent understands which toys are really adaptable to the child's mental and physical age. It is not a difficult matter to guide the child's interest in that direction. If toys fit the child's activity age we have saved many unhappy hours of petulance, whining, and discontent.
PARENTS are frequently lazy in choosing toys, because they fear constructive toys and educational games will require some of their time to teach the child how to use them. Yet, in the end they serve two valuable purposes: they bring us closer to our children; and they provide tools for the creative ability within the child. Thus provided with something he can create or construct, a child will be content for many happy hours.
A few creative or constructive toys adaptable to different ages might be mentioned here: Blocks, of course, appeal to almost all ages from one year on up. (Even mother and dad enjoy building towers and castles on the floor with the youngsters.) There are so many beautiful sets of blocks in every size, shape and color. Recently we saw a set in semi-hard rubber, which the little year old can chew and throw to her heart's content with no damage to child, blocks, or furniture. Crayons usually appeal to children over three. These with the beautiful coloring books available for ten or fifteen cents bring many peaceful hours to the home. Modeling clay puts something pliable into the hands of the creative child of five and will hold his interest for many years. If he only rolls balls they become apples, oranges, grapes, beads, marbles, or any number of objects which his little mind can think of. The mechano and other constructive sets including Lincoln Logs and other types of building materials offer a splendid opportunity for keeping 6 to 15 year old minds and hands occupied. If father is wise to his opportunities he will find many hours of fine companionship with his sons as they work together on these construction jobs. These will be hours which neither son nor father will ever forget.
Toy departments are filled with creative toys for every age, too numerous to mention here. There are some which can very easily be duplicated at home for very little expenditure where family budgets are very limited. We will mention one for example: the popular hammer-nail sets. These are splendid for the four and five year olds. The local lumber yards have several types of building board which will cost very little for a piece 15 by 18 inches. Five cents worth of nails, a small hammer, and a twenty-five cent box of the little colored pieces to be nailed on (these are available in most toy departments where the hammer-nail sets are sold) completes a toy which will please almost any little child. In the summer time, there is nothing to compare with the sand pile for providing material for creative ability. Where a warm, dry basement is part of the family home, it is possible to continue the sand pile throughout the winter, by making a cement or wooden sand box with sides high enough to prevent the sand from escaping. In buying sand, we should remember that there is a great difference in sands. River or beach sand is clean, round, and free of dust, while sand from mountain sand pits is usually dusty and scratchy, which makes it cling to little feet and hands.
IN our search for appropriate Christmas gifts we must not forget books, because they should be a vital part of the life of every child. There are books for all ages and interests at almost any price we wish to pay. At no time in the history of literature has there been such a wealth of books for all ages. As a rule, the children's books of today are beautifully illustrated making them so attractive. But we should be careful in our selection of books for they help to lay the foundation of character in the child. His love of good literature or distaste for books of any kind can so easily be influenced by the type of books we place in his young hands. Dorothy Canfield Fisher says: "Be sure that any child in your care has free access to the fine old books, from Peter Rabbit to the Wonderful Adventure of Nils, from Grimms' Fairy Tales to the William Henry Letters, Alice in Wonderland, Toby Tyler, Treasure Island, Robinson Crusoe, Gulliver's Travels, and all the rest. Any librarian can tell you their names." Let us be sure that each child has at least one good book added to his personal library each Christmas and birthday.
There is one other phase of book buying which is very important, and about which most parents are sadly uninformed. I refer to the buying of sets of books, such as encyclopedias and reference books. Such a set makes an ideal Christmas gift for the whole family if our children have reached the school age where they are ready to use reference books. It is a useful gift which lasts for many years. Bruce Barton says: "A good modern encyclopedia is the cornerstone of every personal library." Dr. Frank Crane has said: "The encyclopedia underlies, supports, complements all other books. It is the one book you cannot afford not to own.... The sure-footed mind is not the one that knows things; it is the one that knows where to find things. The person with the encyclopedia habit does not carry in his head all knowledge, but he has the key to the storehouse; he knows right where to go and get what he needs. The encyclopedia is as necessary to the laborer as to the college president. A man's library should grow with his life. His books are like the flesh he puts on; and some men are too fat, and others are too lean."
In buying a set of encyclopedias most parents are at the mercy of the first salesman who approaches them. There is much good in all sets, but there is a great difference and value in them. If we contemplate putting a fairly large sum of money into any purchase, we usually investigate the whole field, or shop around a little, to make sure that we are getting the best for our money. This is seldom true when we buy a set of reference books. Usually the sales talk of the agent is so convincing that we buy the first set so offered at our door without any investigation. Having no standard by which to judge, we are at the disadvantage of having to take the agent's word for the merit of his publication. But no wise parent will invest in any set of books without first consulting reliable sources of information as to the relative merit of different sets of reference books. The public libraries usually have several different sets and most librarians will gladly help you in your comparison. The American Library Association publishes a quarterly publication called Subscription Books Bulletin which is a great help in selecting a set of encyclopedias. This bulletin is to be found in most public libraries. The April, 1930, issue of the Subscription Books Bulletin tells how to judge an encyclopedia. The three cardinal points which decide the standing of any encyclopedia are:
1. Authority of its information, including, Accuracy. Completeness. Up-to-dateness.
2. Extent to which the work sends the readers to other sources of information, i.e., its bibliographies.
3. Mechanical arrangement. This should be such that any information included can be found by the ordinarily careful reader.
To test the accuracy of such a set of books, take two or three subjects about which you are quite well informed, and see what the encyclopedia says about these subjects. If the information is accurate it is safe to conclude that each article has been written by real authority even if the articles are not signed. Usually such articles are signed and the author's name alone vouches for the accuracy of the statements. It should be remembered in buying reference books that each year new material will be added to new editions. What does the publisher offer in helping you to keep your set up to date? Some publishing houses provide a loose leaf book like the binding of the set, and for a very small sum will send the owners of a set the new material contained in the new editions. This seems to be an adequate method of keeping your set up-to-date.
There are some sets of books which are graded, and agents point out that while your child is three and four there is a book which fits his needs and as he progresses there are books into which he grows. There is one disadvantage in such a set. By the time your child has reached the age where he needs to use the reference books himself the set is out-of-date. There are so many single books which adequately meet the needs of younger children that it seems unwise to invest so much money before he is ready to use the books himself. If you are careful in your selection, you can make a fine contribution to your children's mental development through buying a good set of reference books. It will be a Christmas gift they will enjoy for many years.
IN our Christmas giving to our children, what part of ourselves are we really giving to them? There is a little song which the children of today are singing:
"What makes life the sweetest, Bestest and completest? Not a big doll house, nor a Mickey Mouse, But the right somebody to love."
It is not the lavish expenditure for beautiful gifts that will endear us to our children. They will forget in the years the sacrifice we made to buy them expensive gifts, but time will never erase the memory of the sleigh rides, picnics, hikes, the games we play with them, our joyous smile, the evening story hour, or the songs we sing with them. So—This year let us tuck a bit of ourselves deep down in the toe of each stocking, to be used each day of the year to endear us to our children.
THOUGHTS OF MARY AFTER SHE HAD BEEN INFORMED THAT SHE WOULD BECOME THE MOTHER OF JESUS CHRIST, SON OF THE LIVING GOD By Lottie Hammer Singley
Two tiny arms are reaching for mine, Two tiny lips to my lips I'll press, Two tiny hands in my hair entwine— A precious soul to cuddle and bless
To this cold earth comes my darling sweet Unspoiled, unblemished, devoid of sin; Here pain and sorrow he must reap And I shall be the proud mother of him
Joy beyond words you have brought this day, Angel, for bearing this glad news divine To lighten his burdens along his way I'll aid in this God-given mission sublime
I know when a man, the cross he must bear To atone for the sins of his brothers; Let me prove true to this God-given trust, Serenely devoting my life as his mother.
AT MEMORIAL COTTAGE By Alice R. Rich
A sacred lovely calm Pervades the place, And memories, Sweet as the breath Of meadow flowers, Come to us Through the years.
'Twas here that Lucy, Favored Mother of our race, Welcomed to her waiting arms The infant seer.
The old hearth stone, 'Round which the young lad played, Rests now before The glowing fire.
With love of God Within our hearts, We stand before the humble shrine, And to our souls There comes A reverence mild, Akin to that Which came direct from God To Israel's liberator And Guide:
"Take off thy shoes, For sacred is the ground On which you stand."
An Old Fashioned Christmas By Zipporah L. Stewart
IT was June. Ebenezer Brown arose very early after a sleepless night in the old rock farm house in Eden Valley. With a heavy step he went out through the kitchen and onto the back porch. The house dog sprang out from the corner for his usual morning greeting, only to turn back disappointedly without a word from the man who did not even see him. Out through the yard gate past the barn and over the old creek bridge and through the cow pasture he strolled, to a clump of wood at the right of a field of corn that he, with Jim, had planted just yesterday. Ebenezer sat down, rested his head on two sturdy work worn hands and gazed over his eighty acres. Better than fifty years ago, when just a young man, he had helped grub the sage from these fields. For forty years he had paid taxes on them. Not one year had they been delinquent. They were his very own. He understood and loved them. With Ann by his side he had made a home for six boys and girls, five of whom had left to make homes of their own in the neighboring country side. Today as he reviewed the past, his heart was bitter. Somehow things did not seem worth striving for. Jim, his youngest boy, whom he thought he could lean and depend upon to carry on the work in the fields now that he and Ann were growing old, had failed him. This lad hated farm life; these corn and hay fields, the barn and cow sheds, yes, even the rock farm house, was old fashioned and ugly to him. He wanted real life. A city with lights, moving cars, modern homes, shows, laughter, girls, who could give him all the thrills his heart called for.
TODAY, Ebenezer felt nearer Ann than ever before. She was the only one who knew and understood. She had been by his side, always. She had helped to plan and build the rock farm house. She had held the young trees in the hole, while he had packed the dirt around their roots. She had watered them and together they had watched them grow to stately beautiful shade trees, that almost covered the house and out buildings in the yard. These and more thoughts went through the mind of Ebenezer Brown as he sat on the wood stump near the corn field. They had so absorbed his mind, that he had failed to notice the sun rise with its lovely colors and the haze it spread over the hills back of him. A meadow lark on a cedar post near by pouring out his morning song, was unheard by this man with a heavy heart. Suddenly he became aware that he was wasting time. It was getting late. The cows must be milked in time for the milk man who called at seven. He arose, half startled as if he had experienced a stupid ugly dream. He walked hurriedly toward the house. As he turned and went over the bridge by the barn he noticed Jim coming toward him with his best clothes on. He was walking defiantly as though he meant business and was going to put it over right now. They met at the yard gate. These two men who were filled with pent up, angry emotions, burst forth immediately into a series of decisive sharp angry words. Words that cut deep into the heart of each and made jagged wounds, that only time could erase.
IN the farm house Ann Brown was preparing breakfast. She knew that father and Jim were always disagreeing about the farm, and going to the city to live. In her quiet way she had soothed them and smoothed things over to keep peace. She felt that Jim was only young and father didn't understand boys anyway.
ANN was startled when Jim came bounding through the back door demanding that she pack the family suitcase at once, for he was going away. He was tired of it all. He was going where people understood him. Where he could enjoy life and see things. She was convinced now that the climax had come, that she could do no more. In her quiet way, with tears falling from her pale cheeks she went to the attic and found the suitcase that had been unused for many years. She dusted it off and packed it with freshly ironed shirts, underwear and socks. It wasn't much for Jim to leave with, but it carried all he owned. In the kitchen she found Jim pacing restlessly back and forth. He took the suitcase, gave his mother a hurried kiss on the forehead, and rushed out the front door and up the lane to the main highway. Ann dropped to her rocking chair in the corner, convulsed with sobs that seemed to tear heart and soul apart.
The days and weeks that followed at the Brown farm home were sad ones. Father Brown kept up a haughty pride that would not give in when Ann had tried to persuade him to go to the city to search for their boy and bring him home again.
FALL came. Crops were gathered. The pantry and cellar as usual were filled to overflowing for winter. Far more than was needed for the table of Ann and Ebenezer. But the children and grandchildren were always coming home for a few days, and then too, they must have something to take back with them. Thanksgiving came, then Christmas and the holidays were passed, spring and planting time had come again. Ann had watched and waited every day for Jim's return or for a letter telling where he was, but all in vain. His place was always set at the table and at night the door was never locked for fear he might return and find it so. Three years passed and no message had come.
IT was Christmas time. The snow was piled high; in places it covered the fences and sheds. Ann Brown had spent days preparing for Christmas. The children, and grandchildren would all be home, what a crowd they made. Not only had she been preparing food, but for weeks and months before this she had been working on gifts for all of them. From scraps of old woolens she had pieced two large quilts, for the two older girls and filled them with home carded wool. A number of fluffy, soft, pillows had been made from the down off her geese she had plucked during the summer months. These she would give to her sons' wives. For the three older boys she had knitted woolen socks. They would give extra comfort when the boys were out after cattle on cold days. Warm mittens, scarfs and caps were crocheted or knitted for each of the grandchildren. These were carefully wrapped in bright colored papers tied with Christmas cord and safely hidden away in a large box in her bed room ready for Christmas morning when the children would be there, and the annual Christmas party would take place in the old fashioned living room.
AT last Christmas Eve had arrived. Ann Brown gave a tired sigh as she sat down in her rocker by the little window in the kitchen. On her range stove two large plum puddings were simmering. In her pantry, the shelves were loaded with good things to eat—pumpkin and mince pies, a large platter of home made honey candy. Best of all two large fine turkeys, the pick of her flock, were stuffed ready for the oven. She had spent the afternoon at this task, and felt quite relieved and proud when she put them on the shelf. A basket of shining apples and two huge logs were placed by the open fire place. Over the old mantle shelf and on top of the book case she had arranged pine boughs. On these, bits of white cotton were dotted around with shining tinsel scattered over to represent sparkling snow. Streamers of red and green paper hung from the corners of the room, and were draped in the middle to the cords of the hanging lamp. The lamp itself was adorned with green bows and tinsel. The very atmosphere of her home breathed a true spirit of Christmas.
While Ann was happy and satisfied with her Christmas preparations, tonight somehow she felt such a longing for her lost boy. It was early twilight outside, and a bitter cold night. Ann wondered why father was so long with his chores. She thought he must be giving the cattle an extra feed of oats and perhaps fresh straw beds for Christmas Eve. As she looked out her window across the fields of white, she noticed a small dark spot in the snow at the head of the lane. It seemed to be moving toward the house. Father must have let one of his cattle out. What a job it would be getting it in this cold night with the snow so deep. She watched more closely, the dark object came nearer. She could see that it was a man with a suitcase. She thought it was some traveler who had lost his way in the deep snow drifts and was coming here for warmth and shelter for the night. She stepped to the stove and added more coal to her fire and pushed the soup kettle forward. Whoever it was he must be hungry and cold. In a few moments this stranger had entered the front gate and rounded the corner past the kitchen window and onto the back porch. Ann Brown opened the door. Immediately she was enveloped in two strong arms, and her face was smothered with kisses. "Mother" was the only word spoken. Words were unnecessary. Both understood.
Jim noticed the extra place set at the kitchen supper table. "Were you expecting someone, mother?" he asked. She answered, "Yes, Jim, you."
In a moment the father's step was heard on the porch. A feeling of terror seemed to strike at the heart of Ann Brown. A flash of the harsh angry words spoken that morning in June, when Jim had left home, went through her mind. She knew how stern and almost stubborn father had been about the whole affair. Now what would he do? Could he forgive this wanderer who had come home on Christmas Eve? Jim seemed to experience the same feeling of terror. The old man stepped into the room. He stood for a moment, almost as if he were frozen to the spot. His eyes were round and glassy, the lines of his face were hardened with the old emotion he had felt when the boy had gone away. Jim saw this, but with his heart and very being filled with forgiveness that only one feels who has truly repented, he sprang forward to embrace his father. Instantly as if by magic the old man's heart was softened. He gently caressed and welcomed this wanderer back to their fireside again.
WHAT a glorious Christmas Eve the Browns spent. The bitterness of the past was forgotten and only happy plans for the future were talked of. Life seemed suddenly to be worth while. They were all so happy with the satisfaction that comes with true forgiveness and repentance. Jim's blue eyes filled with tears when he saw the pantry shelves loaded with the Christmas feast, and his mother related to him the plans for the morrow. Christmas morning Jim was up bright and early making fires and doing chores about the place. Father was made to understand that his place was in doors, on cold mornings.
BREAKFAST was soon over, and the turkeys were put to cook. Father wanted dinner at noon or soon after. He never liked this idea some city folks had of serving it at three or four o'clock, besides the children were all hungry at noon. About ten o'clock sleigh bells and merry voices were heard outside. The children had come and what a happy surprise it was, when Jim came out to greet them.
WHEN greetings were over, the horses unhitched and taken to the barn, wraps and overshoes put to dry, the family gathered around the open fire place for the real Christmas fun. Mother's great box of gifts was dragged out from behind her bedroom door. Her home made remembrance for each, seemed to be the greatest thrill of all. Everyone large and small gave and received presents. Grandfather presented each child with a large orange, and what a treat this was. Jim also had his share of last minute remembrances. Father, watching his big silver watch, kept time for the party, and reminded mother when it was noon.
At twelve-thirty the family was all seated around two long tables. How interesting those two tables were with their variety of grandmother's old-fashioned chairs around them—big chairs, little chairs, chairs that wore signs of many coats of paint. These had been decorated to match the woodwork in the kitchen from year to year. There were chairs with velvet backs adorned with crocheted medallions. Two rosewood chairs with wicker bottoms, that came with the first bed room set, were brought out for these special occasions. The wash bench with a quilt thrown over it finished the lineup around the children's table. Everyone, old and young, was eager to begin. With Jim home it was complete. Everyone was happy. Ebenezer Brown sat in his old-fashioned arm chair at the head of the table and as this family sat with heads bowed he offered a blessing on the food.
AFTER dinner they all seemed a bit stupid—a Christmas feast apt to react that way in spite of the best digestive organs. It was not long, however, before the fun began again. A program was arranged by one of the older girls and everyone took a part. Father sang an old-fashioned song and step-danced on the hearth stone to the delight of the younger ones. A variety of talent was displayed. Old-fashioned songs and stories down to the later songs and modern poems were recited and sung.
LATER in the afternoon the apple basket was passed around. When the fire bed was just right Father Brown began to pop the corn, what a pile of it he did pop. Part of it they flavored with yellow butter and salt and the rest was flavored with molasses, and molded into large popcorn balls for the younger ones. The home-made honey candy and dishes of pine nuts were passed around. Every one seemed to have an endless cavity inside to fill, for on these days there was always room for more.
At last it was time for this Christmas party to end. It was so cold outside, and the children they felt must get home before it was too late. Rocks were heated and put around in the sleighs to keep the little folks warm. Mother Brown had prepared a few turkey sandwiches for those who felt the need of a little more nourishment.
WHEN the last sleigh load was snugly tucked in and had driven away, the old couple listened to the tinkle of their sleigh bells in the cold night air, until they faintly died away in the distance. The rooms of the farm home that were so orderly in the morning, now presented an upside-down appearance. Bits of honey candy, nut shells, pop corn and colorful scraps from the Christmas wrappings, were scattered all over the floor. This did not seem to worry Ann Brown in the least. Every one had been so happy. Why should she worry, if a little candy was stuck to her best carpet. It would be so easy to sponge off. With the help of father and Jim things were soon put in their places. And the worst of the litter gathered up. She would arrange things in apple pie order in the morning, after she had rested. Ebenezer, Ann and Jim were sitting in the twilight around the last dying embers of the fire that had burned so brightly during the day. The fire, too, seemed to feel that it had done its best to add to the Christmas cheer, and was now about to fade away for the night. The still quietness of the old house seemed to bring with it a feeling of melancholy after such a joyous day, when its walls had fairly echoed with laughter and shouts of merry children. As these three were about to part for the night, they knelt together. The voice of Ebenezer Brown was heard in an earnest prayer of thanksgiving to God, for his blessed home and family, and for Jim, his youngest boy, who had repented and come home.
On the Trails of the Old Kaibab By Elsie C. Carroll
VII
STEVE came in from his ranch to a meeting of the rodeo committee. Helen saw him as he was preparing to go back and was shocked at his appearance. He was thin and haggard, his eyes dark and brooding.
"As I expected," he told her, "the calves were gone when I got to the ranch that day we'd seen Lon. You see, because of previous experiences, I always keep a special watch over my unbranded calves. That day, I left Lon on guard. But when some of my other men came in from riding they found both the calves and Lon missing. As usual the search for clues has been useless."
"You went to Lon when I sent that word about his being at Mrs. Morley's? Couldn't he tell you what had happened?"
Steve shook his head. "By the time I got there, he was delirious. I helped the doctor take him to the Lodge. He hasn't known anything since and I'm afraid he won't pull through. God! Wouldn't I like to know who gave him that beastly gash! If we could find that out, we'd know a lot of other things too."
Helen was sorry for Steve. Would it help if he knew that she was a sharer, at least to some extent, in his troubles? But Uncle Billy had said to wait.
"Thanks for letting me ride your horse. I've been wondering if you'd sell him to me?"
Steve gave her a queer look. "We don't sell our pals. Maje is more than that to me. Maje and Prince and Uncle Billy and Molly and Lon are all the family I have." He laughed, but Helen felt that he was serious. "I've told Maje my secrets and my dreams almost as long as I can remember. He's getting too old for rough range riding, but I couldn't sell him—to anybody. But I hope you'll keep on riding him. He needs exercise."
ONE afternoon a few days later, Bernice Hawley asked Helen to ride to Bright Angel Point with her. Since their meeting on the trail the day Helen had been to Tess Morley's, Bernice had been more friendly. Helen accepted the invitation. When they came opposite Pete Rockwood's camp, Bernice suggested that they call on the young flier.
"Pete's awfully nice," she said, "I like him. He treats me swell. If I hadn't seen Steve Heyden first, I believe I could fall for Pete."
They found young Rockwood completely recovered from his accident, and taking tourists over the canyon regularly again. He was glad to see them—especially Bernice, as Helen immediately observed. He was as much enamoured with her as she was with young Heyden; and she was as indifferent to his advances as Steve was to hers. What strange tangles the web of human emotions get into, Helen thought.
Pete invited them to have an air ride, but a group of tourists came as they were about to start. The girls told him they would come some other day and rode on to Bright Angel Point.
When Helen caught her first glimpse of Grand Canyon Lodge, rising as it seemed, out of the impregnable stone wall of the great gorge itself, she felt almost as she had done at her first sight of the canyon. Fred Grosbeck came into the lobby a moment after their arrival and offered himself as guide. He led them to points where they could obtain the finest views. Helen was thrilled. The immensity and the grandeur of the great chasm was beyond human comprehension. Fred had them look through telescopes. They could see the El Tovar hotel on the other rim of the canyon fourteen miles away. They even detected the puffing smoke from an incoming train.
Helen knew Fred was watching her closely and trying to make an occasion to speak with her alone; but she forestalled all his efforts.
"When are you coming out here to stay for awhile?" he asked. "You'd enjoy the changing moods of the canyon. It's never the same two days—or two hours. At dawn and in the moonlight it's superb."
"It must be, and I want to see it in all its moods. But I don't think I could stand to see it continuously. It's—too overpowering—too awful. I like better to stay at the Park and make little worshiping visits of my visits. I should hate to think that it ever might become commonplace."
When they were ready to leave she asked, "How is your patient—the Indian boy?"
"Still bad. Tonight or tomorrow will see the crisis. If that last serum doesn't help it will soon be over for him."
"Who's sick?" Bernice asked.
"A young Indian boy," Grosbeck answered evasively, and Helen instantly guessed that Steve was trying to keep the fact of Lon's condition from being generally known.
"Is it Lon Dean? I heard my dad trying to find out where he is."
"I'm not sure what the kid's name is. I must go now and see him. But I'll be looking for you again."
"I wonder if it can be Lon?" Bernice said as they started toward their horses. "I haven't seen him around for days, have you?"
"I don't know him," Helen answered and began asking questions about the history of the lodge.
When they were riding back toward the Park, Bernice said suddenly, "I believe that doctor is in love with you. The way he looked at you and kept trying to get you out on some special little place where only two could stand made me feel in the way."
"What an imagination you have," Helen laughed.
"I don't think it's imagination. It's funny your husband didn't come with you. All the fellows just naturally think you're a widow and fall for you."
"Nonsense." Then to put a stop to the girl's conjectures and to forestall any silly gossip Helen added, "Dr. Grosbeck is my husband's closest friend. He was best man at our wedding." A few miles from Bright Angel Point the girls saw a group of working men. "They're making a trap," Bernice explained, "to catch cattle for the coming rodeo. Let's go over and watch them." As they rode nearer they saw Tess Morley with her movie camera. "She just uses that camera as an excuse to be around the men," Bernice whispered. "I'd like to find out where her husband is, or if she ever had one." Tess fascinated Helen. She wanted to know her, so she rode around to the side of the trap where Tess was adjusting her machine for another reel of pictures. "Do you mind if we watch you?" ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB she asked. Ing." "Tt's a free country,' Tess answered without looking up. Then quite suddenly she turned, her eyes dark with anger. "T understand you were out to my place not long ago." "Yes. Don't you remember I asked you if I might come. I wanted to see Molly Dean. "IT hope you were satisfied and got what you were looking for. I prefer, however, that people who call on my help, come when I am home." "My, didn't she scorch you!" Bernice said as she and Helen turned back to the road. "I wonder why?" Helen mused. "That's easy. You're as good looking as she is and Steve Heyden likes you." But Helen knew this was not the explanation. PREPARATIONS went forward for the rodeo. The big corrals across the flat from the hotel became practice arenas. Shouting men and bellowing cattle made the place echo the old days of the Bar V ranch. Contestants arrived daily to register and to put finishing touches to their training. Girls came for the events open to women. Helen caught the spirit of the occasion. It was unlike anything she had ever experienced before. She longed to be able to do the things these dark-skinned, supple cow-girls could do. Every day she rode for hours, and practiced running, jumping logs, and throwing a lariat. She grew to love Maje and to understand the hurt she had given Steve when she had asked to buy the horse. The things she was striving to do should come easy for she had inherited potentialities from her father. What she needed was someone to teach her, to show her the technique. "It looks very interesting 765 had been several days since she had seen Steve. Then he came to meet her one afternoon as she returned from practice. He looked more tired and worn than ever. Worry over the cattle mystery and anxiety for Lon Dean were telling on him. "I thought you and Uncle Billy had been kidnaped," she greeted him. "I'd like to be." "Where is Uncle Billy? The tourists are disappointed that he never comes to tell his stories anymore. And I feel like an orphan without him. I don't know what I should have done if you hadn't left Maje for me." Steve leaned over and patted the sorrel's mane affectionately. "Uncle Billy's staying at the ranch. He makes me come in to these meetings for the rodeo, but I can't get up any enthusiasm this year. Are there any new entrants the last few days?" "Heaps. They're coming in faster and faster, and such excitement and swearing and betting! I've caught the spirit myself. I wish I could rope as some of the girls I see out here practicing. Can anyone but a born bronco-buster learn things like that?" Steve studied her. "Sure. You surprised me the first minute I saw you on Maje. You don't sit like an amateur, and you didn't react like one that day we went to the rim. It almost seems as if you'd been born to the saddle." "I have been practicing by myself." Her face glowed. "I can run and jump logs. Let me show you." She touched Maje's flanks and dashed toward some fallen trees. With the ease and grace of a deer the horse leaped the first log and skimmed along the grassy ground toward the second. 766 Steve sat on his own horse watching with surprise and admiration. Over the second tree Helen rode on to a third a few hundred yards beyond. She had almost reached it, when Maje's hoof went into a gopher hole, and he plunged headlong to his knees. She was hurled to the ground a dozen feet away. "MY GOD!" Steve cried. He spurred his horse toward her. Before he reached the spot, Maje had struggled to his feet and stood motionless as though he realized what had happened. The blood had drained from Steve's face. His heart was racing with a wild fear. He leaped to the ground and knelt beside the motionless figure. When he lifted the limp body in his arms, he saw blood trickling down one cheek. Thank God her heart was beating. But she was like wax; he could not see her breathe. He pressed his handkerchief against the wound on her forehead. In a few moments she opened her eyes, bewildered. "What happened?" He laid her gently back upon the grass, shoving his hat under her head. "Maje stumbled into a gopher hole. Are you hurt much? What about your bones?" He helped her to stand. She clung to him as she steadied herself on her feet. "I made a prize exhibition, didn't I?" "You did fine. It was that darned hole. Can you walk?" She was still shaking, so he kept one arm about her. "I'm all right," she assured him, after a few moments. "Just a little scratch on my forehead. I hope Maje isn't hurt." The scar on Steve's cheek stood RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE out white. His hands were still trembling when he began to tighten her saddle girths. "Fellows learn how to light when they're thrown. But it looks as if you had an instinct how to doit. A bronco buster couldn't have done better." "Do you think I might learn to really ride?" "Sure. I'll teach you." "Oh, would you help me? Do you have time?" "Sure. I'm laying off most everything till after the rodeo. Do you feel like going now. You're still pale." "And so are you." "I was darned scared." He held her stirrup for her to mount and they rode on to the hotel. THE next morning Steve was waiting with Maje and Prince when Helen came from her cabin. "T thought we might as well begin those lessons this morning." "Are you sure you have time?" "Uncle Billy's holding down the ranch until after the rodeo. He told me not to show my face. Says he's tired of my grumpiness. I’ll go out every night or so to see how things are, of course, but I'll be around here about every day." "How's Lon?" "He's coming home tomorrow. He seems all right—physically." "I'm glad. What did he tell you?" "Not a thing. He can't remember what happened. Doc says his memory may come back. But sometimes after a hurt on the head like Lon's, it's hopeless. Do you wonder that I'm grumpy? This mystery's getting me down." If only she might let him know it concerned her too—but not yet. She had a theory of her own. Of course it might be futile, but it seemed plausible to her. ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB "T suppose we'd better come to some business understanding," Helen said as they rode to the open space where she was to practice. "About what?" "My using Maje, and these lessons you're going to give me.' Steve drew his horse to a stop. His face flushed. "T don't know what you mean. We don't do things that way out here." "But I must pay you. That's only right, and it means so much to me to have a chance to learn." "Out here in the west we don't count everything in dollars and cents. Maybe you won't understand it, but I'll consider that I'm getting my pay right along. Your husband won't object to your helping polish off a few corners from a rough fellow like me, will he?" Helen hesitated. Should she tell him? No. It might spoil everything. "Come on, let's begin." Steve spoke brusquely. He was a conscientious teacher. He would have her practice over and over the correct maneuvers in throwing a rope for different purposes. He taught her how to let her body 767 swing with the movement of the horse and how to hold her reins to check, or spur him on. A FEW days after this training began Helen became aware that she and Steve were the subjects of gossip about the hotel. '"Everyone's talking about the long hours you two spend together and were wondering what your husband would think if he knew," Bernice told her. Helen knew, too, that Mrs. Carter's tongue was busy relaying choice surmises. But she wasn't going to worry about such things. Steve spent most of his nights at the ranch, but nearly every day he was at the Park, and Helen spent hours riding and roping calves. Still the mystery of the lost cattle remained unsolved, and the days went by, with Lon Dean trying in vain to remember how he had come to be with a red-bearded stranger near Point Sublime one day, and had arrived at Tess Morley's place, injured and burning with fever five days later. (To be continued) Why Build Monuments? By Mary Grant Judd Part II FROM a consideration of the purpose of the recently unveiled monument at Winter Quarters, it is fitting, especially at Christmas tide, to think upon the significance of the statute to the Angel Moroni which crowns Cumorah—hill sacred to an ancient and modern people. Here God, working in his own mysterious way, brought forth, through the instrumentality of a resurrected being, a witness for Christ on this American continent. But for the Book of Mormon, the world would not be cognizant that the promise from Christ of a future visit to the "other sheep" had been fulfilled. As part of our Christmas worship, it would not be amiss for Latter-day Saints to re-read each year the beautiful story contained in the book of Third Nephi. Here is just a glimpse of that ever impressive story as told in the book of Mormon: "And now it came to pass That there was a great multitude gathered together Of the people of Nephi. And behold! They saw a Man descending out of Heaven; And he was clothed in a white robe; And he came down and stood in the midst of them; And the eyes of the whole multitude were turned upon him; For they thought it was an angel. And he spake unto the people: 'I am Jesus Christ; I am the light andthe life of the world. Behold, I have come into the world to bring redemption; To save the world from sin; I have laid down my life, And have taken it up again.' 'If ye will come unto me, Ye shall have eternal life'. Ad T is natural that the Hill Cumorah, as well as the country-side immediately adjacent to it, should have a magnetic pull of interest for all true Latter-day Saints. Here, within a short distance, is the quiet farm where Joseph Smith lived as a lad, and close by, is that secluded spot, where the drowsy-sounding insects still intone their rhythmic chant and where the great trees still shelter that most hallowed spot of ground, on which the boy knelt to make his supplication. The story of modern Cumorah is a gradual unfoldment. From an almost mythical hill, sought out by a few zealous individuals, it has become, through the importance attaching to the monument, a center of interest, attracting, in this year alone, upwards of fourteen thousand people. PRESIDENT BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS, when presiding over the Eastern States Mission, conceived the idea of commemorating the event by having all the missionaries under his direction make a pilgrimage to Cumorah and there hold their annual conference. The occasion proved so inspirational that from it came the custom of making the conference at the hill a yearly event. WHY BUILD MONUMENTS? It was in 1928 that the Church Authorities, largely through the efforts of Apostle George Albert Smith, purchased the Hill Cumorah, as well as the Smith Farm and the Sacred Grove. With the permanent occupancy of the farm by one of our own people, it became increasingly easy for those who desired to visit these scenes so rich in Latter-day Saint history and tradition. AFTER the purchase by the Church of this property, Presidents Ivins and Roberts were giving a radio address in which the fact of the transfer was noted. Torlief S. Knaphus, Norwegian sculptor and convert to Mormonism, was listening in. With breath-taking suddenness there flashed into his mind the thought of a monument to the angel Moroni atop the hill Cumorah. Then and there the general plan of the sculpture took shape in his consciousness. He visualized a granite pillar supporting the figure of a man holding the sacred record in his left hand, his right arm extending upward in an attitude of exhortation. Excitedly calling his twelve year old son, before the impression escaped him, the artist had the boy pose with arm outstretched as he quickly sketched the figure which he had conceived. For a year he worked on a small model, getting the proportions correct, before he raked up courage to place his idea before the first presidency. When he did, his plan was accepted, President Anthony W. Ivins being particularly enthusiastic, and he was given a commission to go ahead. After several years of painstaking effort, the work was completed. Connoting, as the monument does, the message of Mormonism, which if heeded will draw men's thoughts towards heaven and God, it was not 769 by chance that the sculptor chose for his expression of art a pillar with upward leading lines. Just as the encircling green hills in the surrounding country-side seem to sweep upward to this highest eminence and culminate in the white shaft piercing the blue, so human aspirations towards the divine rise to their highest point when man, glimpsing heaven, gives heed to the Gospel plan. Then his soul is flooded with light, even as the shaft shines forth out of the darkness each night attracting the beholder for miles around, as great search lights play over the hill. And just as the monument, crowning the hill, becomes the focal point of all the surrounding country, so the message which it symbolizes is the pivotal point of the religion known as "Mormonism"'. With the belief in the reality of modern revelation, our, religion stands or falls; there is no middle ground. The statue to the angel Moroni announces to the world that God has spoken to man in this generation and that personality persists after death. This is the only piece of sculpture ever erected by an enlightened people to commemorate deeds done on this earth after the doer had ceased to be mortal man. "This," says Elder Bryant S. Hinckley, "is a most remarkable thing. And the fact that gives emphasis to it, is the character of the people who did it. The Latter-day. Saints are not a highly emotional people, on the contrary they are a matter-of-fact, practical, thoroughgoing people. To know that they have implicit faith in all that the monument commemorates is a marvelous testimony in a day of unbelief and skepticism." Thus it was right and proper that the commission to execute this work of art should be given to a convert 770 to our faith—one who had accepted the testimony of Moroni himself in the closing chapter of the book of Mormon wherein he says that if those reading the book in the future would do so prayerfully, asking for a witness of the truth of the work, they would receive it. This Torlief Knaphus had done years before in his native Norway, when, at the age of twenty-one, he was baptized in a river thick with ice in Oslo, the capitol of Norway, where he had gone on his own resources to further his study of sculpture and where the gospel found him. It was far from easy for young Knaphus to link his fortunes with the misunderstood people whom he joined. He was the only member of his family to embrace the gospel at that time. He knew how disappointed his parents would be to have their hopes in his artistic future shattered. But he felt such an urge to come to the Rocky Mountains that he gave up a free scholarship to study in Rome and came to Utah. He says that the Book of Mormon has always been a source of great inspiration to him and that he has read and re-read it many times. In speaking of the monument he says: "I trust that my inperfections in not more gloriously arranging this wonderful subject shall not be an RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE offence but that, of the millions who see it, many thousands will be deeply impressed by it and many will be led to investigate the Gospel through its erection." THOSE who attended the services incident to the unveiling of the monument in July of last year were deeply moved by the solemnity of the occasion. Impressed with the possibilities of declaring the message of the book of Mormon from this significant spot, President Don B. Colton of the Eastern states mission arranged to have a suitable pageant written. At the regular conference in July of this year, a dignified portrayal titled, "Truth from the Earth" was given. So successful was the effort that it is now planned to repeat it each year. It will be given out-of-doors so that great crowds can be accommodated with very little effort. Remembering the marked success of the centennial pageant in the Salt Lake tabernacle it may not be too much to anticipate that this event at Cumorah may become nationally known and that, perhaps in the life-time of some of this generation the words of Moroni himself shall be fulfilled wherein he said: "And now I speak unto all the ends of the earth." Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon DECEMBER—Never more than at Christmas time are we grateful to the Lord for the blessing of little children. HE printer's art is at its finest touch in producing beautiful books for children at this season. The new books with their bright colors and quaint stories will delight the little folks, but the old time favorites from Mother Goose to Gulliver's Travels are appearing in wonderful new dresses, with fanciful designs and glorious colors, like a maple tree painted by Jack Frost. CORNELIA OTIS SKINNER has chosen another role in which she attains her usual success. As author of a new book, "Excuse It, Please!' she amuses and entertains equally well as she did as an unrivalled monologuist. Miss SALLY SALMINEN, a New York house maid, recently won a $25,000 prize for a novel written after hours and sometimes on the back stairs. Her own story of struggle and determination to accomplish this is as interesting as her book. FANNIE HURSTS' new novel, "Sister Act," has already been purchased by Warner Brothers for the screen. MME. FLAGSTAD, Norwegian | soprano, will make her first appearance in America in the role of Senta in Wagner's "Flying Dutchman" at the Metropolitan this winter. DORIS LESLIE has just had published a remarkable novel, "Fair Company." The book is a narrative so true in its historical incidents and descriptive tapestry that the reader can scarcely draw the line between the real and the imaginative part of the book. It covers the long period from 1796 through the Napoleon and Victorian eras down to the aftermath of the World War. Special emphasis is laid upon the women of these periods and the reviewers give the book much praise. JEWELS which formerly were reserved mostly for evening wear are worn this winter on tweed suits for street and office and are even seen sparkling on hats. MRS. BURTON W. MUSSER, of Utah, woman appointee of President Roosevelt as a member of the United States delegation to the Inter-American conference at Buenos Aires, Argentina, is a fine linguist and ardent social worker. The conference convenes in December. Mrs: ANNIE SULLIVAN MACY, teacher and companion to Helen Keller—"'The world's most remarkable woman'—died last October. Was not this patient, intelligent, skillful woman equally remarkable? Mrs. ELIZA SLADE BENNION, who died late in October, was a member of the General Board of the L. D. S. Primary for over 30 years. She was a devoted mother and a loyal friend. The Magic of Christmas By Claire Stewart Boyer child we cannot enter the heaven of Christmas. In the hearts of women today has crept a fear that Christmas, over commercialized, is losing its glory. There is a feeling that it is circumscribed by a bank account, and that emphasis on toys, plastered with prices, has increased worry and decreased joy. With the approach of the holidays there is often a sigh, brows are furrowed, and remarks are made that seem to detract from Christmas. But the glory of Christmas can never fade. Song and story will keep it the Day of Days, and the heart of the world will be renewed by its love and peace forever. But there is another virtue of Christmas that is in grave danger— its magic is waning. To the magic of the season then we can turn our thought, and the secret of this magic is in the heart of a child. Why is it we yield our own desires and turn so completely from them to make Christmas real? It is partly because of the Christ to be sure, but also partly because the heart of a child is so adequate. He is able to sense and to give the intangibles to the day. He feels the love behind the gift, he evaluates not in dollars but in thoughtfulness. He lifts us to a high plane of spirituality by his emotional radiation. Impulsively he will say, "I'd like to give Jimmy a present this year, he seems so kind of lonely," or "Wouldn't it be fun to surprise Mrs, Adams? She'd never think I'd remember her," or "I've been thinking for a long time about what would make Aunt Abbie happiest," and if his litU aia we become as a little tle dreams can be carried out without a budget he will indeed create the magic of Christmas. AJAGIC and money are seldom found on the same shelf, anymore than fairy tales and economics are found in the same book. Both are a part of life but the longer we. Can keep them separate the happier we will be. Now if a child could choose he would always take the fairy stories, that is if his tastes have not been marred by careless or rigid supervision. And yet he is not such a spend-_ thrift. Ask a child to write down the gifts he would like to make, then stipulate an allowance to let the money determine his choices. See how his eyes lose their luster and his mind becomes uncomfortable. Freedom is a child's most coveted possession. If he can retain some of it all through his life he will never lose the magic of Christmas. But I can hear you say, "This is sO impracticablé, even if we let children have their way we grownups can't." I wonder if you are right. I once knew a family that allotted fifty cents or a dollar for each gift from each member of the family to each member. Well, the choice of gifts is always limited with monetary limitation, so there was nothing extraordinary in their day. It became routine, then a worry, then an obligation, and finally they did away with it entirely except "just for the children." People whose love is limited just to children have lost their freedom and with it their magic. They justify their stereotyped interest in Christmas by this THE MAGIC OF CHRISTMAS stereotyped phrase. They have ceased letting their love flow in all directions and merely satisfy their sense of duty. They have become onlookers to Christmas, not participants. There was another family and the mother would say, "Now when anyone of you gets an inspiration about a gift for anyone else you whisper it to me and we'll see what we can do about it. So there were whisperings and secret glances, and one year Clarabell would be the one to be lifted to the skies by the Great Surprise. Certainly it would be more pretentious than any one else's gift, but what did that matter? All rejoiced in the exclamation and tears of the elated one. There was no feeling of "I didn't get as much as Clarabell." Their thoughts had been directed toward giving, not getting. There was a need or a desire here and it was answered. The trulyChristmas heart finds the appropriate expression of love. But it need not be a costly gift. Magic came into a home one night with another kind of gift—a Christmas story typed on colored paper tied with ribbons carrying the message of joy. The story became a part of Christmas night before the Yuletide fire. It was about Jesus on His seventh birthday. The eyes of the children were big with wonder, the hearts of the parents were stirred. It was a Christmas that will never be erased. Surely Conningsby Dawson gave the world a memorable gift when he wrote the story, "The Seventh Christmas." A SPECIAL delight of the child's heart is to make something for someone. Here again we can be more thoughtful. The needle and the saw used to furnish the most 773 satisfying gifts; and when we take time for handwork we overflow with the joy of creation. The hands can eloquently bespeak the heart. A man once purchased an old walnut bedstead. From it he made footstools for all the grey haired ladies he knew. It was his one happy Christmas. And there is always candy and cake which mothers nowdays are inclined to underestimate. They need not apologize for such gifts; in this store-made world, hand made presents are most precious. And finally there is the supreme gift that every child gives as his own rare perfume. Many a person's Christmas has been made sublime by the words of a child, by this burst of sun from a cloud-free heart. And no one is bankrupt of words. In this realm at least we are free from budgets. We can send a message of love in words, which are indeed love's dearest messengers. The Christmas card was the answer to this desire. But it has changed. It has become more personal, and it becomes most personal of all when it is the very words of the sender in his own beloved handwriting. Just a thought riding out on a wave of love like a ship on the tide but a ship with a harbor and an anchor. It is the anchor to the magic of Christmas. Magic has as many modes of expression as people have varieties of thought and feeling. For these two are the creative forces in Christmas giving and Christmas living. Let this year hold its glory and its magic as well, and let it be your own kind of magic. If you need help, go to the heart of a child. For unless we become as a little child we cannot enter the heaven of Christmas. (Concluded on page 776) Notes from the Field By Julia A. F, Lund—General Secretary Czechoslovak Mission HE picture below is of the Czechoslovak Mission Relief Society. This picture was taken on the fifth anniversary of its organization. It is the first Relief Society to be organized in Czechoslovakia, and also the first among the Slovak people. This very fine accomplishment was made by Sister Martha Gaeth, while President of the Relief Societies of the Czechoslovak Mission. The organization now has as its President, Sister Joza Komarkooa, who was a great help to Sister Gaeth in Prague. She is a local sister and will conduct the work under Sister Martha S. Toronto, the new mission Relief Society President. The sisters in this group are thoroughly organized, and carry through the educational programs and the social activities for which they have ample opportunity in the Relief Society work. German-Austrian Mission W ORD comes from Sister Elizabeth H. Welker, in charge of the German-Austrian Mission Relief Society, that very splendid work in this progressive Mission is accomplished through the medium of the Relief Society. Sister Welker has had very fine cooperation in her educational program, particularly in her welfare work. An excellent message she sent out to the branch organizations of her mission, was full of helpful suggestions covering all phases of Relief Society work. No finer type of educational program can be put into effect than is made possible through these fine efforts of our sisters. New York Stake FROM one of our new and rather distant Stakes comes this delightful information from Montclair, THE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED IN CZECHOSLOVAKIA NOTES FROM THE FIELD N. J., from Sister Leone Amott Rose: ''We are having such success with our canning project that I want you to know about it. Then, every time you hear a grumble from some one, you can think of us, and smile. "The women here are cheerful, hard working, Holland and American converts, with a few of us from Utah. Many of them had never before canned anything—not even a bottle of jam. We have already filled over four hundred tin cans, and we have hardly begun peaches and tomatoes. We sliced our string beans, and they are perfectly elegant. Most of the corn is whole kernel style, and; confidentially, it's plenty of work putting up corn, but my goodness, it tastes good! We also have a big trunk full of clothing —mended, folded, listed as to size, etc., and de-mothed. With such cooperation as all my officers are giving me, it is no wonder I am enthusiastic." Boise Stake ROM many parts of our organization we have had the most amazing reports of the Scripturereading Project. Literally our sisters have gone "back to the Scriptures." We also have very gratifying reaction from the Teachers' Topic; it correlates so well with the Project. From Boise Stake comes this very delightful report of the manner in which the Teachers' Topic and the Scripture-reading Project can be worked out together. Mimeographed copies of the explanation of the parable and the Visiting Blank are left at each home. From the plan submitted by Sister Mabel S. Nokes, President of the Boise Stake Relief Society, we quote the following: "Mother, what is a Parable?" "A parable, dear, is a story." 775 "Just any kind of story, Mother?" "No, dear. A parable is a very special kind of story, with a very special meaning, a lesson to learn." "Do you mean a story like 'The Hare and the Tortoise?' That has a lesson to it." "No. That is a Fable and the animals in it talk things over. That isn't natural, and parables always follow the natural order of things. The lesson in a parable is a spiritual one, too." "We couldn't call a Myth a parable, either, then, could we? Because a myth makes such things as Honesty and Victory have beautiful bodies and Greed and Laziness have ugly bodies when they really aren't Persons at all." "That's right, dear. And a parable isn't quite like a Proverb because it tells a whole story and lets the listener figure out how it would apply to him. And it isn't an Allegory because an allegory isn't natural and a parable is always natural. It is an Earthly Story with a Heavenly Meaning." "Nobody ever tells parables today, though, do they, Mother? Jesus was the only one who ever told parables, wasn't He?" "Mercy no, dear. Many times Mothers and Fathers who are wise, tell parables to their loved ones. It is a sweet way of letting the loved one figure out a way to make himself better. Teachers know that is a very good way to teach, but it takes time and patience. Jesus was the best Teacher of all and He loved to teach by parable. He knew others would listen to Him if he talked of sheep and grain, ships and other things they knew about, and He knew they would remember His stories. He loved tact and kindness, too. Jesus loved parables." "Oh, Mother, so do I!" 776 "Would you like to read to me one of my favorite parables? It is found in Luke 15, verses 1 to 7. See if you remember the name of it." "Let me see, Luke 15. Oh, yes, here it is. 1 to 7. Oh, Mother. That is about the Lost Sheep. I know about that one." "Yes, dear. The Parable of the Lost Sheep. Ward Boise Stake Relief Society Visiting Teachers (Date) As this demonstration is so fine we feel that other mothers might like to try it, so we are therefore giving it wider publicity through our Magazine. Bear Lake Stake A VERY fine report has reached the office, of the work accomplished through the Bear Lake Stake and especially the educational convention held during the month of September, at which the Stake Board members and a large number of Ward officers were in attendance. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE A preview of the coming year's work in the Literary Department was had. Instructions were given in reference to the Magazine Drive, and many of the Agents had unique suggestions for soliciting Magazine subscriptions. In the afternoon session a pageant was given demonstrating the use of the Teachers' Topic and also the value of the ten minutes' singing practice. The handwork of the different Wards was displayed. The Ward acting as hostesses for the occasion served a delicious luncheon. All parts of the program were presented by Ward members, and the musical numbers were furnished by the Singing Mothers. The spirit of love, unity, goodwill and fellowship was greatly increased by this meeting together of the Ward groups. Curlew Stake ON September 5, 1936, Sister Rebecca N. Cutler, President of the Curlew Stake Relief Society, was honored by an entertainment held in the Ward Recreation Hall. Her Stake Board acted as hostesses, and the M.I. A., and Primary Presidencies, as well as the Priesthood Presidency, were the guests, andjoined in extending to Sister Cutler congratulations and best wishes on her birthday anniversary. A THOUGHT (Continued from page 773) A thought is such a simple gift, Its price is just an eager thrift Of mind, a yearning of the heart To share, its beauty to impart. A thought is such a precious thing No gift of gold could ever bring The joy eternal and the light, O pause and send a thought tonight! Christ had no wealth to give away, And yet the world is rich today Because His wisdom had divined The grace of thought to save mankind. Notes to the Field Literary Department IN January we begin our lessons on Abraham Lincoln. We suggest you be on the lookout for pictures and material to enrich them. Discuss with your children, Abraham Lincoln. They already know much about him. This will prove delightful and beneficial. Make a Lincoln scrapbook including in it pictures, prose and poetry. Undoubtedly one of the finest poems written about Lincoln is Edwin Markham's "Lincoln, the Man of the People." It would make a most interesting study to contrast the poem's description of Lincoln with the prose of Carl Sandberg's "Lincoln." Almost each thought in the poem could be enlarged from splendid incidents, stories and bits of philosophy from the Sandberg book. Work and Business Department THAT this department is most essential to the progress of the Relief Society, and a fundamental part of our work, has long since been proven. It was established in the very beginning, not only as a way to care for the needy, but to raise funds for maintenance, and to bring together the women of the Church in a friendly, social relationship. It would seem there was never greater need for these objectives than the present. There certainly was never greater demand for supplies of clothing, bedding and other supplies for those in need, and it is most gratifying to note the loyal, untiring support the Relief Society sisters are giving the Church relief project as well as caring for all emergencies and immediate demands. The sale of beautiful handwork, quilts, etc., and the giving of parties, bazaars and entertainments, both enliven the Winter months and provide means to carry on. All these things are a fine stimulant towards making our meetings pleasurable and profitable. Then the interest in the Gift Card Contest, together with the new outlines on Ornamental and Beautiful Things for Christmas, Color in the Home, Remodeling, Repairing and Refurnishing have awakened a keener delight in our book, Handicrafts for Every Woman. The third objective is surely not the least important—-that of the social, friendly relationship. Is it not a fact that the present trend of society towards worldly pleasures may separate our interests in community life, and take from us the finer qualities of neighborly love? Working together, to help people, gives great happiness to the soul and is a splendid antidote for selfishness. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES ROBISON: AMY BROWN LYMAN - - -. A KATE M. BARKER -JULIA A. F. LUND: Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B. Knight Lalene H. Llart Lotta Paul Baxter Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Elise B. Alder Inez K. Allen Ida P. Beal Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie LD. Bradford Marcia K. Howells President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -.- - Manager: - - - - Assistant Manager- Mary Connelly Kimbal! Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXIII - DECEMBER, 1936 No. 12 Editorials God's Atl over the civilized world the birth of the Christ Child is celebrated. Joy bells ring, glad carols are sung, reverent hymns are heard. Candle and star-lighted windows gladden the passers-by, while within garlands, trees, bells make beautiful the homes. What a joyous time Christmas is if we do not spoil it by going into debt for presents we cannot afford or worrying because we cannot buy things for this relative or that friend. Would it not be well if we made it more a day of thanks to God for the Gift of His Son rather than a day when the main thing is the exchange of gifts and the subsequent worry that comes through buying things that we cannot afford. Let us gladly do what we can to make others happy and not grieve because we cannot do more. Christmas should be a time of peace, a time of joy, a time of reverent gratitude. Each should ponder over the great love of the Father Gift in giving His Son to save and redeem mankind. How beautifully John has told the story: "For God so loved the world, that he gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life." What a wonderful thing life is. How people cling to it even in times of extreme illness. Spite of poverty or great tribulation men and women want to live. If mortal life with all its woes is so desirable, how wonderful is this gift of Eternal Life, going on from glory to glory, continuing to conquer and progress eternally, and this everlasting life is God's gift to His children. May His birthday be a joyous time of appreciation for His great gift. May those who believe in Him make their lives more radiant and more 'purposeful. May little children learn of the Father's great love and of the Christ's great mission and follow Him in giving themselves with their gifts. EDITORIALS 779 A Benefactor to Mankind DECEMBER 23rd is the 131st anniversary of the birth of the Prophet Joseph Smith. His work follows him in increasing power. The lives of thousands now dead, the lives of thousands now living, and the lives of countless thousands vet to tabernacle in the flesh have been and will be transformed through his ministry. His ministry like that of the Savior's was brief. He suffered a martyr's death when he was but 38 years old, yet in a few short years he was instrumental in restoring the Gospel with its priestly power, organizing a church that has challenged the attention of the world, translating the Book of Mormon, the Pearl of Great Price and giving to man the divine revelations and commandments embodied in the Doctrine and Covenants. He also organized the Relief Society for women, which traces its origin back farther than any other woman's organization now extant. Not only those who have accepted the restored Gospel have been the beneficiaries of his teachings. All over the civilized world the light of truth restored by him has shone, and people have basked in its radiance not realizing their debt to the American Prophet. And so as we think of his life, his teachings, his marvelous work, we thank the Father for sending this Prophet and inspiring him so abundantly in his ministry.
Congratulations
WE congratulate most heartily the Improvement Era on their November issue. We believe this is the finest magazine ever put out in the west. It will be a treasured number to keep for future reference. It will spread information regarding President Grant—his wonderful life and ministry. This number also commemorates the fortieth anniversary of the establishment of this Magazine. It is fitting that one who has been so instrumental in guiding it safely through its troubled days and who has ever stood by it financially and spiritually should have the honor accorded to him of having a number gotten out that gives its entire space to his life.
Change of Address
WE very often get complaints that subscribers are not receiving the Magazine. When the matter is checked up, it is found very often that the person has moved and has not notified the office in time. Sometimes they fail to notify the office at all, and it is only when the postmaster of some place where they have sojourned temporarily tells of their removal, that we are able to again change their address. Much time and waste of postage and of Magazines is caused through this omission. We urge most strongly that all subscribers who desire their address changed give us due notice and if their sojourn is only for a short time in a given place that they will again notify us in time for us to change the address before the Magazine is sent to the wrong place. Give old address as well as new.
"Unemployment Relief in Periods of Depression"
THE Russell Sage Foundation has just issued a volume valuable to all interested in social work—Unemployment Relief In Periods of Depression—"A study of measures adopted in certain American cities, 1857-1922," by Leah H. Feder. It is pointed out that "with each depression emergency measures are embarked upon—and the results generally forgotten. This study recovers and records significant experience in previous depressions for its bearing upon present and future policies." It has taken much time and careful research to obtain the information contained in the volume, for it was found stored away in "widely separated dust-covered files and out-of-print publications." The careful authentic work that is evidenced by each publication of the Russell Sage Foundation is again shown in this volume. It is a source book of information that should give social workers great help in meeting future depressions. Price, $2.50.
"The Soul's Fire" By Jeremiah Stokes
"THE SOUL'S FIRE" is a most dramatic portrayal of the drivings, and persecutions of those who first accepted the restored Gospel. Since the historical events are portrayed without exaggeration, it gives a vivid picture of what it cost to establish the great Latter-day work. The heroes and heroines stand out in their divine and unswerving faith, their wisdom, courage and undying devotions to the great cause. Driven from place to place, robbed of their possessions, they remained true to their convictions. Neither mob fury nor suffering nor death of loved ones turned them away. They knew the work was true, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet and the work he established was of God. A beautiful part of the book is the love story of Ann Northrop who depicts the character of Mrs. Roberts, an English convert, while the experiences of Garry portray the boyhood of Brigham H. Roberts. The book holds its readers' interest from beginning to end. He gets an unforgettable picture of the truly great men and women who not only established a great religious work but also pioneered the West and made its barrenness yield plenty. Price, $2.75, Deseret Book Company, 44 East So. Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Dangerous Toys
PARENTS should be sure that the toys they purchase for their children are safe, and they should remember that it is desirable to give toys that will be educational and inspirational in their nature. The Wright Brothers played with balloons; Edison played with tools, and thus they developed themselves along lines that later made them famous. Guns are dangerous and should not be purchased. A measure was introduced to the League of Nations Disarmament Conference in 1932 that from 1935 on all countries prohibit the manufacture of war-like toys. This was killed in the committee, but would have been a most desirable measure. Merchants buy what the public demands. If this year these dangerous toys and those that are war inspiring rather than peace provoking are not bought, next year the merchants will not stock up with them.
Lesson Department
(For First Week in February)
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 5 THE NEW RELIGION VERSUS THE OLD
Helpful References
In the Bible: Exodus 20:13; Deuteronomy 5:17; Matthew 5:17-18, 21-26. In the Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi 12:17-26; 15:1-10. In the Doctrine and Covenants: 84: 20-27. Talmage: Jesus the Christ, p. 234. Findlay: The Realism of Jesus, Chapter 7.
1. Law of Moses Substituted for the Gospel.
In this and the succeeding lesson we wish to illustrate how the Savior handled and interpreted two of the five basic principles of the law of Moses. It should be kept in mind that Moses, the great Hebrew lawgiver, on leading the tribes of Israel from Egypt had attempted to teach them the law of the gospel and to bring them into the presence of God. The result was unsuccessful because they hardened their hearts. Therefore, the Lord "took Moses out of their midst, and the Holy Priesthood also; and the lesser priesthood continued, which priesthood holdeth the key of the ministering of angels and the preparatory gospel; which gospel is the gospel of repentance and of baptism and the remission of sins, and the law of carnal commandments, which the Lord in his wrath caused to continue with the house of Aaron among the children of Israel until John." (Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 84:25-27.)
2. The Savior Came to Fulfil the Law and the Prophets.
The Savior pointed out to the men of his generation that he had no desire to abrogate the law or the prophets. "I came not to destroy, but to fulfill." (Matthew 5:17.) While preaching to the Nephites, He made a statement that is of singular significance. "Behold, I am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted with my people Israel; therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for I have come to fulfil the law, therefore it hath an end." (3 Nephi 15:5.) The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints proclaims to the world that the Christ in his preexistent state was the one with whom Israel made covenant, and also the one who gave the law. In his earthly ministry among the Jews Christ prefaced His deeper interpretation of the five basal principles of the law by saying: "For I say unto you, that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven." We doubt not that in the literature extant at the time of Christ high ethical principles were taught. The Savior points out, however, that the scribes and Pharisees with whom He was in contact were not living them. His exposition of the law was applicable to the Jews and is also applicable to those now living in the world. Too much of our conduct today smacks of the law of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. In fact, many social investigators of our time would be willing to say that too often it smacks of the law of two eyes for an eye and two teeth for a tooth. Now, what did the Christ mean when he said he came to fulfil the law? We believe He meant to declare its deeper and less obvious significance.
3. The Sacred Nature of Human Personality.
The first great principle underlying the law had relation to the taking of life. The Savior said: "Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment: but I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment." Here, the Christ points out that merely to refrain from slaying is not a sufficient guiding principle. We are to get at the root of the matter by refraining from the unreasoning anger that leads up to slaying. "Jesus is here speaking of our unreasoning antipathies, of our dislike for the people who irritate us merely by going on being themselves. An anger that cannot explain or justify itself is not just the outcome of incompatibility of temperament; it is an offense against personality; for the person to whom we consider ourselves antipathetic has as much right to be himself as we have; it is an outrage upon the soul, as attempted murder is an outrage upon the body; in God's code of justice these misdemeanors are classed together."
The Savior still further expounds the doctrine of the sacred nature of human personality by giving three or four homely illustrations. "Whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council." "Raca" was a term of contempt and probably had the connotation of "wicked" or "worthless." Such words may not be lightly bandied about. They are sharply barbed, and they hurt not the body but the soul. We may conceive of justifiable anger, but upon the man who exhibits scorn against his brother lies the responsibility of proving his case. If we understand the Savior aright, anger against one's brother, unless justified, is contempt of God, because man is a child of God. The man who has anger in his heart is on trial, not the one against whom the spite is directed.
"Whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire." The word translated "Thou fool" in our ordinary versions has as well the meanings of "stupid," or "dull." When men so far lose control of themselves as to allow their anger to be carried over into the realm of personal abuse, they are breaking down the natural ties that ordinarily bind men together. This is an offense that God cannot readily overlook, because men also have a common relation to Him.
The Savior then makes plain, in no uncertain terms, that if men are to find God they are first to find each other. "Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee, leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift." This injunction would seem to imply that we are bound to give our brother, who has some real or imagined grievance against us, a courteous hearing. We are to find with him a common ground for agreement. The spirit of reconciliation is the leaven that will bring peace and happiness into the world.
The Savior adds again, "Agree with thine adversary quickly, whilst thou art in the way with him." Men are here commanded to do everything possible to avoid widening rifts that separate each other. "You find yourself involved in a lawsuit, and are actually on the way to court when you meet your opponent going there too; you ought to be able to discover some way out, while you are walking together the short distance left before you get there. The natural thing for most of us to do, if on that day of all days we saw the man who was causing all the trouble coming up to us, would be to turn down a side-street to avoid him. But obviously this accidental meeting gives us a last chance of avoiding a final breach, and all the vexation of the law's delays."
Men who continue to bear ill-will against their fellows, no matter how right they are at the beginning of a quarrel, usually pay "to the uttermost farthing." The loss of a clear conscience is poor remuneration for the privilege of bearing a "grudge."
Thus the Savior sets up anger side by side with murder, teaches reverence for one's fellows, and ends by showing us the way out—the doctrine of reconciliation.
Questions
1. Why is the Savior's teaching respecting the sacredness of human souls of particular importance to us today?
2. What way has the Lord provided in the Church to adjudicate serious differences between members? Why don't we use these facilities more? If available, consult Keeler's Lesser Priesthood and Church Government, chapters 30-33.
3. What is the Lord's estimate as to the worth of human souls? See Doctrine and Covenants, Section 18:10-16.
Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.)
1. Let the class discuss the practicability and advisability of nations settling their disputes in much the same manner that the Savior commanded individuals to do so. (See Matthew 5:25.)
2. Show that the Savior's teaching respecting the principle of reverence for human personality underlies social advance in every field today. Suggestion: Make inquiries respecting industry, rights of children, war, position of women, education, and politics.
3. Relate a story or incident illustrating the fact that one who continues to bear ill-will, in the end "pays to the uttermost farthing."
4. Show that President Robert M. Hutchins, of the University of Chicago, realized the sacred nature of human personality when he made the following statement to the 1935 graduating class: "'Getting on' is the great American aspiration. And here the demoralizing part comes in: the way to get on is to be 'safe,' to be 'sound,' to be agreeable, to be inoffensive, to have no views on important matters not sanctioned by the majority, by your superiors, or by your group. We are convinced that by knowing the right people, wearing the right clothes, saying the right things, holding the right opinions, and thinking the right thoughts we shall all get on."
Teacher's Topic (For February)
THE PARABLE OF THE FRIEND AT MIDNIGHT (Luke 11:5-10)
"And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves;
"For a friend of mine in his journey is come to me, and I have nothing to set before him?
"And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not: the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee.
"I say unto you, though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him as many as he needeth.
"And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
"For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened."
The three loaves mentioned are probably similar in size and shape to those found at the present day in the East. They are made in the form of small round cakes about the thickness of one's finger and were not cut with a knife but broken. Three of these little loaves were the allowance for one person's meal.
Jesus further says: "If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent?
"Or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion?
"If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?"
The parable belongs to the instruction on prayer and is joined directly to the shorter form of the Lord's prayer. This example as many others was taken from every day life and could be easily understood by all. During the hot season of the year it was customary in the East for people who were going on long journeys to wait until the great heat of the day had passed and then travel far into the night. They often stopped on their way at the home of their friends to rest. Friendship and hospitality demanded that they be offered refreshment, no matter what hour of the night they happened to arrive. And so the parable relates he had not sufficient food in the house and went to borrow from his neighbor.
If we pray constantly, and keep the spirit of prayer in our hearts always we place ourselves in a condition to receive the good gifts the Lord has in store for us. "Prayer is the central and determining force of a man's life." Our prayers must be sincere and marked by patience and humility. Christ said, "Pray always that ye enter not into temptation." Prayers should be simple and direct and we should have faith in their fulfillment. While we pray with faith our patience is perfected and our humility deepened.
"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire Unuttered or expressed; The motion of a hidden fire That trembles in the breast."
Discussion
What was the spirit of prayer as exemplified by Jesus in Gethsemane? Read the Lord's prayer.
Work and Business (For February)
CONVENIENT KITCHEN AND HOUSE LIGHTING
MANY homes have been made to look like new with only a few small changes. You may get that "new house thrill" by creating new convenience and beauty. Start with the vital working parts of which the kitchen is the most important. Ugly and inharmonious surroundings breed discord and inefficiency and tire one's nerves. Every kitchen should radiate cheerfulness. Unsightly worn patterns in the linoleum can play havoc with the loveliest room, but old linoleum matched and patched and the whole floor treated with paint and varnish or waxed can lay the foundation for an interesting room. Cream and green linoleum, bordered with black, is a good combination. Paint is the most practical and the cheapest wall treatment, although the so called "washable papers" are preferred by some. If the room has a sunny exposure, use the cool colors, as green, blue; if on shady side of house use the warm colors, yellow, orange or red. Cream painted walls help to diffuse the light.
Everything that makes the modern kitchen beautiful should make it equally easy to keep clean and convenient to use. No longer need it be a haphazard assorted assemblage of fixtures. Equipment resistant to wear by cracking or chipping, that requires minimum time and effort in caring for it, step-saving devices, plenty of drawers, shelves and storage space should all be considered in the plan. Stainless steel-top tables, sinks, work surfaces at convenient heights, quick-heating electric coils to speed cooking, power mixers, electric dishwashers and many other gadgets serve to make kitchen work easier.
Studies and experiments of the time which the average woman spends in preparing meals and washing dishes show that even though she doesn't do a complete cooking job, she spends at least two hours per day in her kitchen. It is the use of modern appliances which makes possible this great increase in efficiency and saving of time. The electric range and electric refrigerator make it possible to do a very much larger volume of cooking with ease than is possible with old-fashioned kitchen equipment. It is true that a kitchen thus equipped represents a large investment in appliances, but it is an investment that pays dividends. If it pays to use power and machinery to bake bread in a bakery, it pays to use them to bake bread at home.
The grouping of equipment into the work centers to save waste motion and keep different jobs moving along in smooth sequence is important. This depends, as does the size of the kitchen, upon the number in family and kinds of work to be done. Built-in equipment without legs to clean around and floors that are smooth and sanitary are big conveniences. Many sections or parts of equipment may be obtained, then put together as needed, like the old-fashioned bookcases. The stove, refrigerator, sink, cupboards, will fit together to form one working unit. Shelves are adjustable and both drawers and doors are interchangeable. Do not follow the same casual method in buying equipment for kitchen as in other rooms. It is a workshop and scientific manufacturers have seen to it that there is no excuse for having it otherwise. If it is now cumbersome and inconvenient, a comparatively modest sum invested can bring about great improvement.
A great deal of time and energy may be expended in a most convenient kitchen if utensils used require much care. Cleaning and scouring become an important factor in the daily routine, but with proper methods no extra time or work should be necessary. Care begins with cooking. Avoid spilling food on the outside or burning on the inside of utensils or stove. A good sudsy wash soon after utensils are used, with thorough rinsing and drying will mean less scouring and stain removing. Good scouring soaps and powders that don't scratch are on the market and are quick and effective for stained, burned utensils. Aluminum is popular, as it never rusts, doesn't chip or break, is a good conductor of heat and light in weight. When darkened by alkali, it may be cleaned by boiling water and vinegar or acid fruit. Enamelware in white or bright colors is decorative, good conductor of heat and the smooth glaze is resistant to acids and it seldom stains, but chips with too rough usage. Stainless steel is an attractive and practical metal. It is more expensive than other metal but gives years of service without becoming shabby and dented. Fewer good utensils is far better than many gadgets that require more care and storage than they give service.
Good lighting is a requisite for the convenient kitchen. Plenty of light doesn't mean glare. Spotty lights irritate, give headaches and react on nerves. We need two kinds of light —general and special. Every room needs general illumination, ample in quantity and of proper quality, not necessarily light enough in every corner for close work but enough for the ordinary and usual routine of the home. This may be achieved in various ways—direct or indirect. By means of ceiling or wall fixtures the light should be diffused so there are no dark spots. Special light is needed for special places and special tasks which is brighter at a given place than general light. The work-centers in the kitchen, as table, sink, stove, the laundry tubs, the stairs, the basement, the attic, the reading and sewing centers, need this special lighting. Light on both sides of the dressing table mirror or bath room are best and should be of right height to light whole face.
With size to meet family needs and standards, with equipment placed to eliminate waste of time and energy, with work-centers the proper height for worker, with few good and easily cared for utensils, with bright cheery colors in wall, floors or curtains, with lights properly placed and adjusted to relieve strain, the kitchen becomes most restful though the most active room in the home. New equipment and expense are not always necessary to achieve this. Rearrangement and elimination will work wonders for convenience.
Handicrafts For Every Woman, pp. 50-58.
Literature (For Third Week in February)
Lesson V ABRAHAM LINCOLN
WE pass from the childhood to the youth of Abraham Lincoln. When Abe reached seventeen he was six feet. These were the years he was handling the ax. "The inside of his hands took on callous thick as leather." He cleared openings in the timber, cut logs and split firewood. On winter mornings he wiped the frost from the ax-handle, then followed blow after blow on the big tree, which felled he would use for a seat while he ate his dinner of corn bread and fried salt pork. He had strong shoulder muscles and steady wrists. He walked twenty-four miles one day to hear a lawyer make a speech.
Growing from boyhood to manhood he was often alone. His stepmother told him "she didn't mind his bringing dirt into the house on his feet; she could scour the floor; but she asked him to keep his head washed or he'd be rubbing the dirt on her nice whitewashed rafters." His mother said: "'Abe never spoke a cross word to me in his life.' As time went by the stepmother became one of the rich, silent forces in his life."
"He wanted to learn, to know, to live, to reach out." He said to Denis Hanks, "the things I want to know are in books; my best friend is the man who'll get me a book I ain't read." Sometimes his friends would reply, "Well, books ain't as plenty as wildcats in these parts of Indianny."
John Hanks, who worked with Abe, said, "When Abe and I came back to the house from work he used to go to the cupboard, snatch a piece of corn bread, sit down, take a book, cock his legs up high as his head, and read." All the boys read The Kentucky Preceptor, said Hanks, "but Abe picked out questions from it, such as 'Who has the most right to complain, the Indian or the Negro?' And Abe would argue about these things while pulling fodder in the cornfield." It was such things as these that made Dennie Hanks say there was "suthin' peculiarsome" about Abe.
Besides reading the Bible and figuring his way through the arithmetic, he read Aesop's Fables, Pilgrim's Progress, Robinson Crusoe, and The Life of George Washington, by M. L. Weems. In 1825 Robert Owens, a rich Englishman, had made a speech in Congress, saying that he hoped to find a better way for people to live "where work would be honorable yet there would be time for play and learning and where they would share and share alike, each for all and all for each." This scheme heartened the hungry soul of Lincoln. "There's a school with thousands of books," he said, "and fellows that knows everything." The schooling would have cost $100 a year perhaps, but Tom Lincoln had other plans for Abe. He wanted him to take a flatboat down the Mississippi River and trade flour, meal and bacon for cotton, sugar and tobacco. So Abe began cutting oaks to make a boat. Later it glided down the Father of Waters to New Orleans where the trade was made. New Orleans was a new world to him as people from many nations lived before his eyes. That year Indiana University printed its first catalogue and while the institution was to be no part of the young man's life, still nothing could keep him from reading, between the plow handles, The Revised Laws of Indiana, to which had been added the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States. Then, too, from the Louisville Gazette, which came weekly to Gentryville, he learned of the great orator, Henry Clay, of Kentucky, who came from a family of poor farmers. He also learned that the Erie Canal was finished and that it cost seven and a half million dollars.
Tom Lincoln now resolved on another move. Both men and animals had been coming down with the "milk-sick," so he moved to Illinois. But Lincoln carried with him a peddler's stock, which he sold along the road. He wrote back to Gentryville saying he had doubled his money, and incidentally he made his first speech. John Hanks put him on a box to answer a man opposed to improvements of the Sangamon River, and John told the neighbors "Abe beat him to death!"
When he reached Illinois, he helped build the cabin, put in the crops, and split the rails for fences. Many things contributed to hard times in the new state, where for days families lived on parched corn and where some died of cold and others of hunger. The Lincolns had a hard time. When the winter "eased up," they moved a hundred miles to Goose Nest Prairie in Coles County. Once again Abe took produce down the Mississippi. On his journey he saw many notices involving the sale of negro slaves. He saw an auction in New Orleans "where an octoroon girl was sold after being pinched, trotted up and down, and handled so the buyer could be satisfied she was sound of mind and limb." Lincoln was now twenty years old so he decided to go on his own.
"Saying good-bye to his father was easy, but it was not so easy to hug the mother, Sally Bush, and put his long arms around her, and lay his cheek next to hers and say he was going out into the big world to make a place for himself." Soon after he had left his father said to a visitor: "I s'pose Abe is still fooling hisself with eddication. I tried to stop it, but he has got that fool idea in his head, and it can't be got out. Now I ain't got no eddication, but I get along far better'n if I had." And the visitor left saying Thomas Lincoln was "one of the shrewdest ignorant men" he had ever known.
Industrialism was spreading. Cotton mills were the "industrial phenomenon" of the period. Each year tens of millions of pounds were produced. In 1820, cotton goods worth $2,500,000 were produced and in 1831 the total worth was estimated at $15,500,000; at the same time woolen mill output had increased from $1,000,000 to more than $15,000,000. It was a process that shook up culture, religion, and politics in New England and so mixed the currents of its destinies that Daniel Webster wrote: "We are disgraced beyond help or hope; there is a Federal interest, a Democratic interest, a bankrupt interest, an orthodox interest, and a middling interest; but I see no national interest, nor any national feeling in the whole matter." The spinning-wheel was consigned to the attic: "Spinning was to be done in cotton and woolen mills and clothes were to be cheap."
Lincoln found his way to New Salem, a trade center. Denton Offut opened a store and put Lincoln in as clerk in charge. Here Abe gained a reputation for honesty. One story ran "that counting the money a woman paid for goods he discovered she had paid six and a quarter cents more than her bill; so that night he walked six miles to pay it back."
A literary society was formed in New Salem, where Abe made speeches, and he heard that James Rutledge, father of Ann, was saying there was "more than wit and fun in Abe's head; he was already a fine speaker; all he lacked was culture" to enable him to become a distinguished man. Then, too, he had a lucky day. "It was the day that a mover prevailed on him to pay fifty cents for a barrel." Abe merely did it to oblige the man, but in the bottom he found Blackstone's Commentaries on the Laws of England. By accident he was owner of the one famous book that young men studying law should read first. Then Jack Kelso, the poet, who knew Shakespeare and Burns came into his life. Lincoln boarded at the Rutledge Tavern where it was said he never drank nor smoked nor swore.
When the Illinois legislature met at Vandalia in 1834 Abraham Lincoln was one of its members. He was twenty-five years old, holding his first elective office and being paid three dollars a day. He had to borrow the money to purchase the suit he wore, but he was serving his state, and he was also away from Ann Rutledge. It is just about one hundred years ago now that Lincoln lay taking Peruvian bark for chills and fever, when Ann Rutledge, who lay "fever-burned" sent for him. They spent an hour alone together. Two days after she died. Lincoln was back from the Legislature surveying in Sangamon County. In June, 1836, he again announced himself as a candidate for the Legislature, and was reelected. He came out for the enfranchisement of women and for moving the capital from Vandalia to Springfield. At this time the moral fiber of the man is revealed in the statement: "You will never get me to support a measure which I believe to be wrong, although by doing so I may accomplish that which I believe to be right."
Lincoln saw something of the civilization of his time as he rode into Springfield in March, 1837, to begin his law practice. About this time he appears to have proposed to a lady who rejected him, for in melancholy fashion he writes: "I have come to the conclusion never again to think of marrying, and for this reason: I can never be satisfied with anyone who would be blockhead enough to have me."
But in 1840 there came from Kentucky Mary Todd, "plump, beaming, with ready answers. She had smooth soft skin, soft brown hair, and was a center of likes and dislikes," among those who met her. "She was the first aggressively brilliant feminine who waylaid him with resources known to an accomplished and vital woman. To Mary Todd he lost his head." During her first year in Springfield both Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A. Douglas took turns at being entertained in the parlor at the Edwards house, where she lived. The story goes that she was asked which she intended to marry and she replied, "The one that has the best chance of being president."
In 1840 Lincoln and Mary Todd became engaged to be married. "The months passed, Lincoln was busy. He couldn't go to all the parties Mary Todd was going to: she flared with jealousy. And went with other men. They fell out, made up again. The wedding was set for New Year's Day, 1841. The bride was ready and the groom didn't come."
On the day set for the wedding Lincoln again took his seat in the State Legislature, which lasted two months. He made himself believe that he did not love Mary. His friend Speed said he should tell her so. He left to see her saying he would be careful not to say too much; but he was gone two hours and when he returned he said: "When I told Mary I did not love her she burst into tears and said something 'about the deceiver being deceived!' It was too much for me. I found the tears trickling down my own cheeks. I caught her in my arms and kissed her." Speed said "he was a fool and that he had renewed the engagement again." Lincoln replied, "Well, if I'm in again, so be it. It's done, and I shall abide by it."
On November 4, 1842, they were married. Lincoln was thirty-three and his bride was twenty-three. Much has been said about the marriage of Abraham Lincoln and Mary Todd, but Gamaliel Bradford, thought of as an especially keen biographical analyst, thinks they were always fascinated with each other. Four years later, Lincoln, who was now the father of two sons, Robert Todd and Edward Baker, was getting ready to go to Washington. True, there were still some debts from the New Salem Days "when his grocery store winked out into bankruptcy," nevertheless he had managed to buy a house on Eighth and Jackson street a few blocks from the public square. Yes, it was all quite true, Abraham Lincoln, the boy who wore deerskin moccasins and a coonskin cap was a successful lawyer in Springfield, Illinois, and he was going to the nation's capital to be the only Whig congressman from the state of Illinois.
Note: You will find additional material from chapters twelve to chapters eighty-two in "Abraham Lincoln, The Prairie Years," by Carl Sandburg.
Questions
1. S. Marion Tucker, an authority on Drama, says: "The supreme achievement of drama is the creation of character." The highest aspiration of the dramatist "is to form human beings as real and convincing as if nature herself had moulded them." What is true of the drama is in large measure true of the realistic novel, and also of the literary biography because it has adopted the technique of the novel. A biographer mainly interested in presenting facts might be satisfied with writing: Mary Todd, who came from Kentucky to Illinois, in 1840, married Abraham Lincoln in 1842. But a literary biographer does not do it that way. He paints such a picture of Mary Todd that you can see her. He also tells you so much about her that you know her. Turn to chapter fifty-two and read to the class the description there given and decide if Sandburg has been successful with his portrait. What do you like about her? What do you dislike about her? Are you interested in the description of her costume? Do you think she had ambition? Do you think she had insight? Chat about her in any way you feel inclined.
2. C. Alphonso Smith, of the English department of the U. S. Naval Academy merely brings to mind what all students of literature know when he says: "Literature can restore the past to you." It is characteristic of Sandburg's Lincoln that it is reconstructing the Prairie Years for you. Recall how he makes you feel the thrill of building the Cotton and Woolen Industry in the picture he paints. Cite other examples of a restoration of the past through pictures or other means.
3. Literature is always concerned with style. A writer without feeling for style might be content to say, There was something peculiar about Abraham Lincoln, but Sandburg has Dennie Hanks say: There was "suthin' peculiarsome about Abe." Sometimes when Abe asked for books to read his friends replied: "Well, books ain't so plenty as wildcats in Indianny."
4. Did you laugh as you read any part of the book? If so, it was because of the presence of humor. All novels are supposed to possess humor, and as the literary biography is akin to the novel it is that much more complete if it also possesses humor. Have you sometimes felt like weeping as you have read this story? If so, it is because it possesses pathos. Feeling enters largely into all branches of artistic writing and the author is conscious of seeking to affect the feelings of his readers. Can you cite examples of passages, that make especial appeal to the emotions?
5. In what way does Robert Owen's plan resemble plans we hear of today?
6. Under what circumstances, and in what year did Lincoln declare that women should be enfranchised?
7. Name some of the books Lincoln read. Which book is said to have been his favorite book?
Social Service (For Fourth Week in February)
Lesson 4 ADULT EDUCATION
Text: Civic Sociology, by Edward A. Ross; Chapter IX.
AT the heart of the problem of living well together is the task before all adults of adjusting to the social, economic, and spiritual requirements of the day. In a stationary society it would be possible to establish duties and responsibilities which would remain effective indefinitely. But in a changing society such crystallization is not only out of the question but attempts to effect it are dangerous to any kind of progress or development. It is true that the fundamental values and morals of life remain unchanged. Truth, honor, spirituality, and virtue will never cease to be the cornerstones of right living. But customs, manners, and methods of living do not remain the same even from one short period to another in any society which looks forward to growth and progress. However, it is all too easy for adults to evade the responsibility of meeting this changing world with a feeling of self-sufficiency and a satisfied reliance on the past. But yesterday's formula has lost its power to meet the problems of today just as the time will come when today's solution will prove inadequate for the questions of the future. It is the object of this lesson to point out that adults should strive to make an intelligent approach to the present through an understanding of contemporary problems, and that they should sense the responsibility of contributing to the needs of society as the result of such education. Their maturity and wisdom should not be lost to society through failure to do this.
The following specific purposes will be discussed:
1. The great need in the world today of adult education.
2. Intelligent participation in adult education movements.
3. Contributing to community welfare as one result of adult education.
Attention today is being constantly directed toward the changes sweeping over the educational system in all countries. Education for a new social order has taken the schools by storm until school curricula seem to have little resemblance to those of a generation ago. In the first part of the chapter pertaining to this lesson the text cites many of these changes. Attention is specifically called to the increasing equalization of educational opportunity for children, the greater proportion of young people attending schools and colleges, and the greater variety of studies being offered in the effort to train pupils to meet the everyday problems of life.
Parents are indeed pleased to see the constant changes in the school program which bring increased opportunities to their children. Wide fields of endeavor which were formerly considered beneath the dignity or entirely outside the scope of the educational system are now included. Often, they are found to be more closely related to successful living than mere knowledge of the three "R's." But the changes from theoretical and restricted schooling to the inclusion of the crafts, technical and vocational subjects, and more extensive study of manual training and home economics, are creating a real challenge to parents to keep abreast of the times. Mothers must realize that children thrive better on a well-balanced diet, and that knowledge of such a diet comes only with a study of the latest findings along that line. Fathers should understand that the methods of all kinds of mechanical work are constantly being improved and revolutionized. These are the skills of livelihood. They are the basis of our physical needs. But of equal importance to the changes that are constantly taking place in these lines and bearing a very close interrelation to them is another phase of our existence—the art of living together in group life. Of necessity, the science of human relations has undergone simultaneous changes because of the interdependence of the two phases of living. The mechanical changes may be easier to measure, but the social changes are just as marked if we but perceive them. Although technology may seem to have changed the world more for the benefit of the few than the good of all, the unmistakable ideal of social betterment is gradually replacing the past ideals of American freedom which were ruled by the theory of catch as catch can, and may the best man, win regardless of the harm done to others or the evil of exploitation. Human living is now on a plane so entirely different from that of a generation ago that adults must renew their studies in the light of the present. However, despite this fact, many homes are maintained in an atmosphere belonging to the past while the children are being taught the latest social developments in school. Is it any wonder that misunderstandings arise and points of view between parents and children are strained? The challenge of increased educational facilities and enlarged opportunity is bound to conflict with the ideas of adults, unless adulthood keeps in step with the times. Such a conflict LESSON DEPARTMENT is bound to create confusion in the minds of youth. The following quotation supports this point of view: "Unless adults learn to reshape their ideas in relation to the work they are trying to do in providing opportunities for growth for their children, youth, itself, will not be prepared to meet the complexities of the modern world which they must share with adults, and adults must share with youth." (White House Conference, p. 37.) Adults who persistently cling to the traditions, habits of discipline, and obedience to the regulations and customs of a passing period which they acquired in their o&n youthful days are at times quite incapable of meeting youth with any degree of understanding. But they should realize that they must keep in tune with the changes in the social world if they are to continue to hold the respect of young people and to be of constructive service in their guidance. "We cannot bend the ideas of youth back to the old order, nor restrain the advance of a society so swiftly changing. We must make ourselves a creating part of this onward moving stream." In regard to the necessity of adult education leaders are formulating statements of trends and policies of social changes. Three generalizations drawn from the "Charter of the Social Sciences," by Charles A. Beard, point out the burden of our educational practice today. First, the society in which we live is rapidly changing. The old order under which adults were schooled is giving way to new interpretations of life. If adults are to adapt to the new conditions of life, the problem is one demanding constant attention. Its solution requires ability to meet changing situations with a knowledge of scientific facts. The new adult 793 education is planned to provide such knowledge. It has been organized to help people as far as possible to understand these challenging situations so that changes may be made intelligently. The fact must be recognized that the economic individualism of pioneer days is being replaced by different types of social and economic planning, dependent upon collective efforts. According to the principles of democratic governments the wishes of the people cannot be overlooked if they are intelligently defined. The second conditioning factor of life today is the organization of life on a basis of science and machinery. Our civilization may be called technological as distinguished from one founded on agriculture and handcraft. But the present state of economic and social confusion is evidence that some form of social, economic planning is essential to the continued functioning of the newer means of production. Skilled artisans can never be certain that a new machine will not render their craft useless before they have reached middle life. The obligation of all adults to adapt to these new conditions of life also demands constant solution. And here, again, knowledge of scientific facts is necessary. Third: Whatever solution is evolved must be in harmony with the basic principles of human rights and should contribute to the end of political, economic, and social democracy. Unless the present generation continues to cultivate the practice of thinking critically and constructively upon these questions of social reform it will be inadequate in rendering intellgient judgments. But the individuals who decide policies of government as a result of well thought out conclusions in place of popular hearsay are too few indeed. 794 The agencies provided for the enlightenment of adults are constantly increasing. Each is trying to provide a broad intellectual preparation for modern life. A marked tendency is shown for older people to seek opportunities for self-improvement. Public schools conduct evening classes for instruction for those who had limited educational opportunities. Citizenship classes prepare for more intelligent participation in the affairs of government. Night schools, extension courses, and correspondence courses furnish additional training in vocational and allied fields. The extent to which people are availing themselves of these facilities is revealed by the fact that in 1930 approximately 1,000,000 people were registered in night classes in elementary schools, high schools, and vocational schools. Since that time the number has increased remarkably. Extension and correspondence courses offered by universities have so increased the number of available courses that the earnest seeker can now secure instruction in almost any line of learning desired. While much that is offered over the radio is still far from educational it is growing to be an important educational agency. The world's finest music is brought to all the people as part of their everyday life. Aesthetic and cultural opportunities are not stinted. Talks on art are brought to every one. But many people refuse the best that is offered for the more popular forms of entertainment. But the radio would provide greater and greater opportunities for broadening educational experiences if the desire were evidenced. No broadcasting company would dare to sponsor a program that did not meet the popular approval of the average adult audience. The type of movie sponsored is the one where adults render RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE their approval at the box offices. The press is always responsive to its readers. Until adults further cultivate ideals tempered by social welfare and express those ideals in tangible forms the need for further adult education will continue to be one of the most important needs of the hour. To the Latter-day Saint, education is viewed as a continuous process, a part of the great scheme of eternal progression. It begins with birth and continues not only for life, but, we believe in the hereafter. The Prophet, Joseph Smith, has given us a splendid understanding and goal to achieve as shown by the following statements taken from his teachings: "If one man, by his diligence obtains more knowledge than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." "Whatsoever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life will rise with us in the resurrection." "Knowledge saves a man, and in the world of spirits no man can be exalted but by knowledge." '"'A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge." "Tt is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance." "The glory of God is intelligence." (Joseph Smith, The Prophet Teacher, p. 65.) Activities 1. Determine the relative number of adults in your community who are continuing their education by means other than. Attendance at Church organization meetings. 2. Prepare a list of the available classes open to adults in your community. 3. What trend is indicated by the subjects offered and the relative enrollment in the various subjects? "Does the trend indicate a healthy choice for social welfare? Child Guidance Lesson V JEALOUSY FEW emotions are experienced by man which from a social point of view are more important than jealousy, and perhaps no emotion is so dependent upon early environmental conditions for its development. It arouses anger and frequently hatred toward the object of jealousy. It causes the jealous individual to feel disregarded and inferior to his friends and neighbors, it damages his pride, and it lowers his self-respect. This may produce a desire for revenge and retaliation or may cause him to withdraw and hide his true feelings under a mask of indifference. We are all familiar with one or more of our friends or acquaintances who have what we call a jealous disposition. Not only are they jealous in reference to their love and friendships, but also of good fortune which falls to others. Pleasure and happiness can be only temporary for this type of individual. Their satisfaction with life is constantly being interrupted by their attitude toward the achievement and happiness of others. One of the most common situations which stimulates jealousy in the child is the birth of a new baby. This is not surprising when quite suddenly and unexpectedly this child of 3 or 4 finds his mother devoting practically all her time to the intruder. It may be that the child has been through a period of worry and upset. Often the older child is sent away during the mother's confinement. This may be the first time he has ever been away from home, and adults can little appreciate what this may mean to him, even though he ty be with the most well-meaning of relatives. His entire world is in upheaval. How can he know that it will ever come right again? He puzzles his little head over this, is told time and again that he is going back to mother and daddy, but when he gets there he appears to be supplanted. Or it may be that he stays at home, and mother is taken away to the hospital with little or no explanation to him. Again he is faced with an upset world. Why has mother left him? Will she really come home again? Then she comes, but not with undivided attention for him. Mother's love and attention must be shared; small wonder that feelings of hatred for the baby are aroused. However, this attitude toward the new-born baby can invariably be overcome if the older child is confided in and told that he may expect a new little brother or sister. He then awaits its arrival with interest and pleasant anticipation. Handled wisely, what might be a most unpleasant event in his life becomes a real pleasure which will mean companionship and a new playmate, some one to care for and protect. This sense of responsibility will work out to the advantage of both children. If, in the course of events, the older child does become jealous of the baby, never foster this attitude by teasing or encouraging it, or by looking upon it as something that is "funny" or "cunning." The emotions of childhood are far too dangerous to be toyed with in this way. Intelligent parents will find numerous ingenious ways to convince the child that he is still just as much loved and as important a member of 796 the household as he was before the "usurper" arrived. It is simply a matter of giving the older child a little more time and attention and a little assurance that he still holds the affection of those he loves. Often a child will become markedly jealous when the parents show affection for each other or for children outside the family circle. Unfortunately parents not appreciating the gravity of such a demonstration are frequently flattered by the child's resentment. This interesting and unusual display of emotion appeals to them and they term it "cute," making every effort to perpetuate and exaggerate it and even arousing it for show purposes when visitors come in. In one case the daily delight of the father of a little girl of 2 was to incite her to wrath on his return from work by cuddling the baby sister and ignoring the older child. This continued treatment has so warped her outlook that at 5 she stands at odds with the world, disliked by family and playmates, defiant, belligerant, and frequently inaking vicious attacks upon the sisters by whom she feels she has been supplanted. This, of course, is an exaggerated instance, but situations of this sort are far more common than most people suspect. Again, jealousy is aroused in one child by the constant praising and holding up of brother or sister as a model or persistently pointing out shortcomings and defects in the child who is inclined to be jealous. Nothing is more disastrous than playing the merits and abilities of one child against those of another. It causes feelings of bitterness, resentment, inferiority, and inadequacy. No family is big enough to play favorites or show partiality. In order to avoid as far as possible the development of jealousy in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE child it is necessary to deal with that common characteristic of childhood called selfishness. The chlid must learn that he has certain obligations toward his family and later toward the community in which he lives. As early as possible he must begin to think of what he does and what he says in relation to other individuals and how his words and acts affect them. He will be repeatedly told that such and such an attitude in a given time or place is right or wrong. He will live in an environment where he can see that his pleasures and those of others are being considered by each member of the household. Thus, long before he can reason why, he will have acquired certain habits, developed largely through suggestion and imitation. The jealous child is apt to be one who in early life has not had the opportunity of developing interests outside himself. The only child is in a position to become self-centered. This is especially true if this child has been brought up in a crowded section of the city where he is confined to limited quarters with no companionship except that of his mother. He is, to be sure, monarch of all that is within his reach, but his field is far too limited. He has no knowledge nor chance to gain knowledge of the interests and activities of other children. The same holds true in a greater or less degree with a child who, by illness or accident, has been prevented from making early contacts with other children and has had only the companionship of an oversolicitous mother. He, too, becomes impressed with his own importance. Not infrequently one child in a family is especially favored by one parent or the other, being protected not from experiences but from the natural LESSON DEPARTMENT consequences of those experiences. Such children in later life are of the type who fail to recognize superiority of others and are intolerant and resentful toward authority. It is fairly safe to assume that if a child can be taught habits of unselfishness in the home, where his personal attachments are strongest and where he would naturally have more provocation to jealousy, and can learn to meet successfully the situations which develop there, he will encounter little or no difficulty from this emotional handicap when he gets outside. If it so happens that there are no other children in the home, every effort should be made to bring the child into association with children outside, even at the risk of physical dangers in the street and the chance of picking up some of the vocabulary of the alley. The child should be taught to share his toys and playthings, his candy, books, and pennies with other children. In games he must learn to strive for the good of the group and not for personal achievement. If defeated, he must learn to acknowledge better playing and take it with a smile. Children should learn to play many games with fair ability rather than to excel in one particular game. 'There is a great tendency, not only on the part of children but on the part of adults as well, to cling to the things they do exceptionally well and retire from the field of activity where they do not excel. Unselfish conduct should always be rewarded by commendations and occasionally by something of a material nature. There is certainly no disadvantage in the child's learning from experience that, selfishness is not a paying proposition. It is the jealous child who becomes the jealous man or woman. As a 797 child he encounters innumerable difficulties in getting on with his playmates. Because of this he develops a sense of failure and shame which is a tremendous handicap. He feels wronged and neglected; he has missed a "square deal." His selfcenteredness becomes more marked, and he draws away from his playmates and the activities of life thoroughly discouraged; or he may become domineering and pugnacious in an effort to gain attention for himself. Later in life this emotion causes an inability to share in the joys of others and makes it impossible to see others succeed without manifesting open resentment. The jealous person becomes an object of dislike. Often he develops the idea that he is unjustly treated or persecuted, and all too frequently this idea causes uncontrolled resentment and disastrous results. Study your child. Find out why he behaves as he does. Is he aggressive, belligerent and defiant? Is he sullen and resentful, or does he explode in outbursts of temper which clear the atmosphere? It may be that he is shy, quiet, and always a model of good behavior, letting life slip past him without taking an active part. Think the thing over; try to see his reasoning. Remember that the attitude he is showing may be the very opposite of what he really feels. Aggressiveness and defiance may be a mask for feelings of failure and discouragement; passive indifference may cover deeply wounded feelings. On the other hand, the child's conduct may be only the result of limitation and may be patterned after an admired "grown-up" or child with whom he comes in contact. Take time to know your boy or girl; it will prove in later years to be time well spent. Magazine Drive WE are deeply grateful to our Magazine Agents, those who have assisted them and to our subscribers who have so loyally worked together to make this Magazine Drive the greatest in our history. We have gone many thousands over last year's peak. We hope every subscriber will feel that she made a good investment and that each number will give her satisfaction. There are many Agents who have worked very hard and yet have not been able to reach the goal they set out for. To such we say, do not be discouraged. While it is gratifying to get high percentages, if the best possible work has been done, no one could do better than that. We find that some of our Stakes have based their percentage on their active and honorary rolls rather than on their entire roll, and when their work was checked in the office, their percentages were much lower than they figured them. The following ten sisters will be awarded at our April Conference, bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine for having secured the highest percentages of subscriptions. Ward Stake Enroll. No, Sub. % Magazine Agent Washington Br., \ Capitol Dist. Eastern States Mis. 77 212 275 Laura C. Brossard Imbler Union 15 36 240 Mattie Westenskow Basin Big Horn 18 41 225 Lova Kinghorn Worland Big Horn 17 37 218 Clara Gheen Belfry Big Horn 11 22 200 Mary Youst, Cody Big Horn 9 18 200 Ethel Brailsford Santa Barbara Br., Los Angeles Dist. California Mission 16 31 194 Louise Haberlitz Duchesne Duchesne 38 72 189 Minnie Wheeler Baker Union 35 65 186 Nellie Shurtliff Leland Palmyra 41 71 173. Mae Thomas WE call special attention to the remarkable record made by Mrs. Laura Cowley Brossard, President of the Washington Branch of the Eastern States Mission, who with an enrollment of 77 has secured 212 subscriptions, a percentage of 275, which is the highest percentage ever secured and also the largest number of Magazines to go to any one organization and its friends. We congratulate these sisters on their achievements and look forward to seeing them at our April Conference, so as to personally tell them how glad we are of their success. WARDS 100% AND OVER Ward Stake Enroll. No. Sub. % Magazine Agent Penrose Big Horn 11 18 164 Emma Tvedtnes Logan Square Br., Chic. Dist. Northern Sts. Mis. 38 62 163 Caroline Granschow Mapleton Franklin 21 34 162 Cora Knapp Raymond Montpelier 18 29 161 Eleanor Saxton Milwaukee No. Side. Br., Wis. Dist. | Northern Sts. Mis. 46 72 157 Marie Meyer La Grande Ist Uintah 33 51 155 Emma Stringham McGill Nevada 58 90 155 Loretta Bamgartner Glendale. Maricopa 15 23 - 153 Julia S. Kremer Ward Milo Antimony Walnut Park Lehi Ist Arcadia 20th Arlington Ogden 17th Holbrook Muncie Br., No. Ind. Dist. Thayne Provo 4th Tridell Richards Union Idaho Falls 6th Mission Elberta Ogden 13th Provo 6th Idaho Falls 2nd Manavu Central Park Hilliard Linden Marriott Pocatello 2nd 11th Mesa lst Brigham 2nd Hillcrest Tempe Pacheco Tracy Burley lst Clinton Rexburg 2nd Capitol Hill Martinez North Pocatello Racine Branch, Wis. Dist. Lakeshore University Belvedere Flowell Uintah Phoenix 2nd Pleasant View Ashurst Burlington West Bountiful Smoot Beaver Creek Br. Montello Wardboro Heber Phoenix 3rd Richmond Twin Groves MAGAZINE DRIVE Stake North Idaho Falls Garfield Los Angeles Lehi Duchesne Ensign Hollywood Mount Ogden Curlew Northern Sts. Mis. Star Valley Utah Uintah Granite Union Tdaho Falls San Francisco Tintic Ogden Utah Idaho Falls Utah Grant Woodruff Snowflake North Weber Pocatello Ensign Maricopa Box Elder Grant Maricopa Juarez Sacramento Burley Weber Rexburg Salt Lake Oakland Pocatello Northern Sts. Mis. Palmyra Ensign Los Angeles Millard _ Mount Ogden Maricopa Ogden St. Joseph Big Horn South Davis Star Valley North Idaho Falls Mount Ogden Montpelier Snowflake Maricopa Oakland Yellowstone Enroll. No. Sub. % 15 23 153 50 76 152 30 45 150 83 119-143 20 28140 100 140 140 28 39 139 95 32 139 26 36 138 8 11 138 7 51 138 95 130 137 33 45 136 94 126 134 35 47 134 43 56 133 33 45 133 16 21 131 86 112 130 96 125 130 42 54 129 104 134 129 aD 70 127 11 14 127 11 14 = 127 38 48 126 83 105 127 105 132 126 cum ii2 126 84 105 125 76 95 125 32 40 125 9 11 122 9 11 122 134 62 121 53 64 121 102. 123 121 50 60 120 25 30 =120 40 48 120 10 12 120 53 63 118 50 59 118 69 81 117 24 28 117 18 21 117 62 72 116 38 44 116 20 403 115 48 5 115 52 60 115 44 50 114 15 17 113 16 18 113 16 18 113 17 19 112 60 67 112 26 29 Magazine Agent Lila Gildea Mary K. Riddle Sophia Offerman Lenore T. Jones, Inez Peterson Rose D. Gilbert Edna C. Langton Fannie Gordon Mattie Vogel Fern A. Willie Theresa Coffman Elsie F. Roberts Elsie Miller Nellie Merkley Jennie Hardy Rose Kofford Anna Slater Lena Klein Lettie M. Patten Edith Wilson Flora Buggert Hazel Goodwin Marie Bennett Agnes Adamson Naomi Lym Etta C. Rogers Sarah Parry Abby Robinson Beulah Powell Sarah Shumway Sarah H. Horsley Viola Cahoon Lauvon Cone Margaret Cluff Erma Patten Sylvia Barlow Angeline Child Mary E. Hunt Sarah Lamie Audie Johnson Caroline Stewart Florence Boy Maude Bellows Emma S. Teudt Percilla Lundeen Ruth Allen Mae G. Bybee Mary J. Cosby Diana Johns Hazel Bryce May Partridge Etta Telford Nellie Howell Myrtis Leanardson Gertrude Jordan Evva Dalrymple Elva Shelley Thressa Price Blanche Harmon Mrs. Wm. Richards 800 Ward Draper lst Geneva Harlem Branch, Milk River Dist. Homestead Jackson La Grande 2nd Lehi Rigby 2nd Blanding Chester Phoenix Ist Ensign Hayward Riverton 2nd Roberts Balboa Dimond Idaho Falls 3rd Marion Murray lst Oakley 4th Ogden 19th Palmyra Portage Prescott Branch, No. Ariz. Dist. Spencer Alameda Ammon Idaho Falls lst Idaho Falls 4th 19th Slaterville Sutherland Tremonton Unity Brigham 3rd Delta 2nd Evans Branch Hanna Heber 3rd Idaho Falls 5th Mt. Emmons San Jose 16th Wells Alpine Harper McKinley Plano Mesa 3rd Vernal Ist Bountiful 2nd Boise Ist Brigham 5th Center Center Elmhurst RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Stake East Jordan Montpelier North Central States Mis. Sacramento Teton Uintah Maricopa Rigby San Juan Yellowstone Maricopa Ensign Oakland West Jordan Rigby San Francisco Oakland Idaho Falls Cassia Cottonwood Cassia Weber Palmyra Malad California Mission Oquirrh Oakland Idaho Falls. North Idaho Falls North Idaho Falls Salt Lake North Weber Deseret Bear River Burley Box Elder Deseret Box Elder Duchesne Wasatch Idaho Falls Duchesne San Francisco Salt Lake Wells St. Johns Box Elder Wells Rexburg Maricopa Uintah South Davis Boise Box Elder Salt Lake Wasatch Oakland 44 19 18 19 27 44 36 74 156 42 60 86 23 57 23 37 75 25 26 89 26 66 26 61 49 21 20 21 30 49 40 82 172 Enroll. No. Sub. 9% 111 111 111 111 111 111 111 111 110 110 110 109 109 109 109 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 106 106 106 Magazine Agent Florence Sjoblom Rosetta Fluscher Lois Haycock Ruby Altop Helena Hayes Emma Randall Lillie C. Rollins Elizabeth Ossmen Freda Hunt Mattie Winters Kate Campbell Ruby C. Clark Era Del Loomes Myrtle Peterson Idella Christensen Frederikka Duffner Edna Torgerson Laura Hops Hattie Tolman Laura Stauffer Josephine Gorringe Toss W. Kersch Lucille Hansen Rachel R. Gibbs Rose M. Scott Rebecca Herzog Ethyl Cullen Mrs. L. U. Hammer Rhoda Jardine Vella Evans, Mary Miles Elizabeth Crawford Sylvia Knight Millie Jones Belva Laub Juliana G. Nielsen Agnes Stander Trene Little Alice Buxton Emmeline Moon Annie K. Moulton Ila Sams Dicy Lister Edna Wall Lula Gillespie Beatrice Falkner, Annie Ackroyd Jessie Jepson Zilla Harper Olive B. Taylor Alice Warner Esther Robertson Pearl Knight Lena Collier Annie C. Carr Signa Pecora Crysta Woodland Alzina Whitehead Treen Duke | Lavina Smithen Ward Garland Ida. Falls 4th (Br.) Mesa 2nd Sugar Ist Declo Egin Huntington Park Maywood Southgate 12-13th Wapello Bancroft Bountiful lst Elwood Harvard Emigration Hawthorne Afton North Banida Bates Bluebell Bothwell Cedron Centerdale Br. Centerville 2nd Central Chandler Collinston Crescent Diamond Dublan East Garland 18th Farnum Fidelity Fish Haven France Siding Br. Gilbert Gilmer Park Glendale Glines Grace Grovont Gunnison Howell Indianapolis Br., So Ind Dist. Iona Lincoln Littlefield Maeser Malta Manchester Matthews Meeteetse Mesa 4th Montpelier lst MAGAZINE DRIVE Stake Bear River North Idaho Falls Maricopa Rexburg Burley Yellowstone Los Angeles Los Angeles Grant Ensign Blackfoot Idaho South Davis Bear River Liberty Bonneville Granite Star Valley Oneida Teton Duchesne Bear River Teton Bear River South Davis Bannock Maricopa Bear River East Jordan Lethbridge Juarez Bear River Ensign Yellowstone Rigby Bear Lake Yellowstone Maricopa Bonneville Oneida Uintah Bannock Teton Gunnison Bear River Northern Sts. Mis. Big Horn Idaho Falls Moapa Uintah Raft River Los Angeles Los Angeles Big Horn Maricopa Montpelier 85 25 118 57 Enroll. No. Sub. % 801 Magazine Agent Addren Isaacson Ethel Lees Annie L. Brocksome Wilma H. Seidel Irene Pincock Teresa Parke Eva P. Cruser Luella Kendall Margaret H. Brampton Edith Worthington Alma Erickson Margret Hancock Louie A. Call Elizabeth E. Wood Martina Larsen Irene C. Brain Ida von Nordeck Julia Carver Viona Taylor Mira Miles Zuma Murdock Verona Winkler Emma Ellis Paula Zohner Mrs. John Smith Nola Holman Pearl Christensen Faye McGaughey Mrs. Mark Jensen Anna Smith Mrs. E. R. Perry Bernice Coon Mrs. W. E. Adams Iverne Wallace | La Vera Hendrickson Mrs Nickerson Winnie Smith Geneva Peterson Donette Fuller Rachel Watts Mrs. Ray Webster Mrs. E. H. Bell Vilate Hodgkinson Anna King Lucile Moulton Ann Perry, Aurilla 'Wilkinson Hazel Roberts Cleo Hopper Mae Fay Porter Mrs. Eli T. Lee Melvina Reed Marie Leavitt Vilate M. Roberts Naomi Paskett Marie Rohde Elizabeth Bowen Sarah E. Owen Ella Stewart Ethel Jacobsen 802 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Ward Stake Enroll. No. Sub. % Magazine Agent Mt. Glenn Union 10 10 100 Wanda Zaugg Moulton Raft River 13 13 100 Mollie L. Baker Oakland Oakland 57 57 100 Esther Cooley Ogden 18th Mount Ogden 82 82 100 Mettie Burton Palisade Rigby 35 35 100 Mattie Nelson Pella Burley 36 36 100 Lourinda Duke Pine Maricopa 18 18 100 Martha Randall Pioche Moapa 28 28 100 Ora Price Pittsburg Oakland 24 24 100 Catherine O'Brien Pleasant Grove 2nd Timpanogos 48 48 100 Effa Williams Pocatello 6th Pocatello 64 64 100 Frieda Myers Powell Big Horn 9 9 100 Bertha Cozzens Preston 5th Franklin 32 32 100 Zeffie Peterson Rexburg 3rd Rexburg 47 47 100 Emily A. Ricks Salem Palmyra 114 114 100 Christy Sabin Salem Rexburg 61 61 100 Myrtle Wasden Santa Ana Long Beach 47 47 100 Charlotte Lake Sharon Bear Lake 23 23 100 Hazel Long Spanish Fork 2nd Palmyra 89 89 100 Mary Monk Sugar 2nd Rexburg 74 74 100 Florence H. Bean Superior Lyman 30 30 100 Lenora Hansen 23rd Salt Lake 47 47 100 Nancy Fritz Ursine Moapa 8 8 100 Belle Hammond Vernal 2nd Uintah 73 73 100 Clara L. Bartlett Vernon St. Johns 10 10 100 Caddie J. Whiting Washakie* Malad 27 8 100 Margaret Parry West Weber North Weber 49 49 100 Marie Telford Woodland Portneuf 18 18 100 Elsie Bloxhom WARDS 75% AND UP TO 100% San Francisco San Francisco 59 58 98 Gerda Anderson Winder Cottonwood 77 75 97 Annie Cook Ogden 8th Ogden 112 109 97 Alta Paulson La Point Uintah 49 47 96 Grace Lambert Adams Hollywood 89 85 95 Carrie Ainee Fairview Franklin 74 70 95 Harriet Hall Herriman West Jordan 43 41 95 Emma F. Butterfield Malad lst Malad; 65 62 95 Mary Mills Pleasant Green Oquirrh 60 57 95 May Unsworth Burnham Young 33 35 94 Harriet Foutz Lyman Rexburg 33 31 94 Mary M. Robinson Springdale Zion Park 49 52 94 Nora Jolley Anaheim Long Beach 14 13 93 Erthel Thatcher Ogden 21st Ogden 56 52 93 Elizabeth Jacobs Santaquin Ist Nebo 99 92 93 Lizzie Whetear Bayridge New York 12 11 92 Clara Magnussen Clearfield North Davis 49 45 92 Phyllis King Hooper Weber 71 65 92 Florence Naisbitt Edgehill Highland 88 80 91 Gwen W. Jensen Las Vegas Moapa 79 72 91 Ruby Ostensen Logan 11th Logan 92 84 91 Amy Affleck Logandale Moapa 32 29 91 Matie Dotson Burton Wells 77 69 90 Nora Yeager Galesburg Br., No. Til. Dist. Northern Sts. Mis. 10 9 90 Florence Bowers Richfield 2nd Sevier 67 60 90 Elizabeth Magleby Wilmington Long Beach 39 35 90 Lillie M. Hayden Deweyville Bear River 28 25 89 Louise Holdaway Although Washakie Ward, Malad Stake, has 27 enrolled, this is a Lamanite Ward, and there are only 8 who read English, all of whom subscribe for the Magazine, so we feel they deserve a rating of 100%. Ward Huntsville Lincoln Luna Ogden 29th Otto Shelley 2nd South Bountiful eston Boone Br., Iowa Dist. Boulder City Hercules 29th Wilshire Ogden 11th 24th Cedar City 3rd Detroit Br., East Mich. Dist. Evanston Gridley Joseph City Oakley 3rd Redondo Roseville Ucon University Br., Chic. Dist. Ist Garcia Menan Winslow Woodruff Yuba City Burlingame Tanger Independence Paris 2nd River Heights indsor Young Honeyville Leadore Br. Logan 2nd Oakley 2nd Pingree Toronto Br. Toronto Dist. Nd View Yale Abraham Belvedere College Columbus Br. N. Ohio Dist. Huntington Beach North Shore Br. Chic. Dist. Pocatello 5th Vermont Waterloo MAGAZINE DRIVE Stake Ogden Granite St. Johns Ogden Big Horn Shelley South Davis Franklin Northern Sts. Mis. Moapa Oquirrh Salt Lake Hollywood eber Salt Lake Parowan Northern Sts. Mrs. Woodruff Gridley Snowflake Cassia Long Beach Sacramento North Idaho Falls Northern Sts. Mis. Liberty Juarez Rigby Snowflake Malad Gridley San Francisco Oquirrh Rexburg Bear Lake Logan: Timpanogos ogan Box Elder Lost River Logan assia Blackfoot Canadian Mission Salt Lake Burley Bonneville Deseret Wells Logan ' Northern Sts, Mis. Long Beach Northern Sts. Mis. Pocatello Los Angeles Wells Enroll. No, Sub, 82 82 82 803 Magazine Agent Marie Madsen na J. Gardiner Helen L. Thompson Mattie Manning Edith Tolman Maude Edward Thelda Larson Amanda Fredricksen Jennie Holmes Artell E, Chandler Fanny Little atharina P, Riegler ilda Jorgensen Pear] Dransfield Anna Thompson Wealth M. Reeves Ruth S. White Edith Davis Florence Jensen Alta C Westover Lovina Critchfield Iva Cox Nellie Boller Millie Hil] Emma Johnson elva Lott Ida Kartchner Hannah D. Poole Jessie B. Smith Eunice A, Harris Ruth Johnson Ruth Bentley Mrs. Jorgensen Pauline Perry Susan Law Annie Liechty Mary B. Hales Emma Speth Paulie Boothe Mrs. W. E. Dalby Inez Thain Violet Smith Nettie van Orden Mary E. R. Smith Lucy W. Holmes Martha W. Young Ann W. Larsen Chloe M. Jacob Frances Talbert ate Simpson Edith Albiston Nellie Brown Murl Fullmer Cora C. Pickering Beth Orr Seraph W. Allred Ada C. Nisbet 804 Ward Whittier Aberdeen Conda Dingle Holladay Moreland Oasis Osgood Provo 5th Raymond lst 21st Vallejo Westwood Br., Nev. Dist. Wilford Acequia Ashley 14th Holden Leslie Mayfield Overton Pleasant View Rigby lst Sandy 2nd Soda Springs Spanish Fork 5th Upalco Yalecrest Fillmore 2nd Genola Long Beach Lund Nibley Park Nutrioso Ogden 10th Paul Sunset Bloomfield Br. Lovell South Gate Cache Eagar Emerson Firth Good Springs Hamer Lindon Magrath 2nd Paris lst Pratt 27th Garden City Garfield Gila Hurricane So. La Grande Laketown Logan 12th Midvale 2nd Palo Alto St. Charles RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Stake Wells Blackfoot Idaho Montpelier Cottonwood Blackfoot Deseret. North Idaho Falls Utah Taylor Ensign Oakland California Mission Yellowstone Minidoka Uintah Salt Lake Millard Lost River Gunnison Moapa Malad Rigby East Jordan Idaho Palmyra Duchesne Bonneville Millard Nebo Long Beach Nevada Granite St. Johns North Weber Minidoka San Francisco Young Big Horn Los Angeles Teton St. Johns Highland Shelley Moapa North Idaho Falls Timpanogos Taylor Bear Lake Teton Ensign Bear Lake Rigby St. Joseph Zion Park Bonneville Bear Lake Logan East Jordan San Francisco Bear Lake Enroll. No. Sub. % 98 80 82 35 45 81 21 Wy 81 47 38 81 53 43 81 51 63 81 32 26 81 42 34 81 104 84 81 79 64 81 91 74 81 ae 18 $1 35 28 80 30 24 80 54 43 80 80 64 80 20 16 80 60 48 80 60 48 80 35 28 80 92 74 80 59 47 80 50 40 80 76 61 80 15 12 80 75 60 80 63 50 79 39 31 79 145 114 79 33 26 79 101 80 79 24 19 79 122 97 79 42 33 79 42 33 79 7 9 78 84 66 78 60 47 78 13 10 77 95 73 77 129 99 77 55) 27 77 13 10 77 13 10 77 44 57 77 83 64 77 17 13 76 38 50 76 110 84 76 38 29 76 33 25 76 82 62 76 32 25 76 70 53 76 Magazine Agent Cleo Kelson Lillie Stone Ruth Lewis Ettie Nate Lillie Lewis Annie Morrell Florence Williams Blanche Hill May Snow Fannie C. Litchfield Mary H. Jordan Ida Fullen Gladys Storer Myrtle H. Romrell Winnie Osterhout Mrs. Gus Sweatfield Bashua Davis Allie Hunter Ann Fullmer Amelia C. Larson Adelia W. Shurtliff Annie M. Bailey Elizabeth West Mabel Fritz Rosina Hopkins Surelda Riches Lavina Murphy Elizabeth H. Liddle Eloise H. Adams Netta L. Draper Ada M. Johnson Ella Fawcett Emma Armstrong Zina Cecardi Ellen Collins Emily Rich Millie Johnson Harriet Norton Hazel Davis Naomi Whale Grace Higley Elmira Bigelow Annabel Wallace Ada Johnson Mable Kemple Myrtle Rose Nettie Mecham Flora Palmer Catherine Innes Janey Moss Nora Sparks Ella Satterthwaite Alice E, Hadlock Jennie Hubbard Martha J. Hastings Malinda C. Hicken Emma Cheney Thelma Fullmer Nina Rasmussen Lottie Hansen ° Alice Rich Ward Shelton South Weber Berkeley Corning Providence 2nd Spanish Fork 4th Stake Union Maricopa Ensign San Francisco Los Angeles Oakland North Idaho Falls Rigby Granite Idaho Falls Wells Duchesne Oquirrh Burley South Davis Bear River Rexburg Bonneville Cassia Juarez Hollywood Grant Ogden Box Elder Salt Lake Long Beach Pocatello Franklin Utah Timpanogos MAGAZINE DRIVE Stake North Idaho Falls Mount Ogden Oakland Gridley Logan Palmyra STAKES 75% AND OVER Enroll. No. Sub % 172 258 150 692 764 110 776 825 106 266 268. 101 436. 437 100 392 393 100 326 305 94 341 315 92 574 523 91 392 356 91 816 709 87 228 245 85 369 312 85 449 376 84 574 482 - 84 647 535 83 890 745 83 492 413 82 153 126 82 153 126 82 381 307 81 625 502 80 833 707 80 915 711 78 831 652 78 439 337 77 744 573 77 615 466 76 974 737 76 243 326 75 Enroll. No. Sub. % 16 13 46 9 47 79 805 Magazine Agent 76 Jennie Lovell 76 Inez B. Bowman 75 Etta Sparks 75 Jane K. McClellan 75 Rose Kohler 75 Pearl Cloward Magazine Agent Josephine Hanks Zina Dana Rose H. Neeley Grace Tuggle Laura R. Stephens Adrian Gee Emily H. Smith Nora J. Henry Pearl H. Crockett Della Rowberry Amy B. Towler Eliza J. Gilbert May S. Arnold Nellie R. Barlow Josephine W. Naylor Margaret H. Pack Mary E. Hunt Christina V. Wilson Jennie R. Hale Jennie Bowman Marjorie Williams Martha Fagg Cora S. Jenkins Eliza Thompson Clara B. Wright Ethel Spongberg Seretta Hart Jeanette S. Barton Clara N. Giles Helen S. Walker We regret that many stakes have not sent in their reports and that because of this perhaps some wards that may have scored high are not printed on our list of honor. Some wards have sent in their reports and are included even though the stakes were MY SHIPS By Annie Pike Greenwood Stay home, my ships—here in the harbor stay: But one last trip,—till then, stay here with me. You shall not come back wrecked another day; Never again forth-speeded shall you be. Remiss. I waste no tears to find you stripped so bare; Nor weep I that you brought no cargo back. Glad am I that I built you all so fair— My ships were good; in me alone the lack. Dear ships of Youth and Hope and High Desire, Here in the harbor let us rest awhile— A little while, and you shall be my pyre: Flaming, we'll sail, high-heartedly, and smile. BE SURE YOU RECEIVE THE ONE AND ONLY GENUINE UTAH KNIGHT'S SPRING CANYON COAL: "FOUR WAYS BETTER" 1—Starts Quicker. 2—Burns Longer. 3—Less Soot. 4—Less Ash '"ASK YOUR DEALER'? Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices General Board Relief Society Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building = L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS! Le ee For the high school or college graduate, we offer professional training in all commercial subjects. A course here will enable your son or daughter to qualify for the better positions that business has to offer—a position that means financial independence, responsibility, and the opportunity to grow. Write or Call for Full Information L. D. S. Business College 70 No. Main Salt Lake City Wasatch 1812 order your CHRISTMAS CARDS early. There is a definite advantage in making your selection while our stock is complete. You get just the card you want, at the price you want to pay, and you are free to attend to the other many details incidental to the approach of the holidays. Come in NOW. THE DESERET NEWS PRESS PIONEER PRINTERS AND BINDERS OF THE WEST 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine LIFE Insurance, too, is a guiding star—a light that leads the way to a goal of security. The gift of a Beneficial Life insurance policy to your children will teach them to save, and will earn for you their undying gratitude. Consult your local Beneficial agent. If It's a Beneficial Policy It's the Best Insurance You Can Buy BEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 7 GENERAL AGENTS ALLEN CAMERON, 515 Title & TRUST H. M. ROLLINS, LYMAN, Wyo. BLDOG., PHOENIX, ARIZ. THOS L. SMART, 202 WONDER BLDG., R. F. COTTLE, 420 IDAHO BLDG., BOISE, RENO, NEV. L. D. GREENWOOD, 208-11 JENNIE ROGERS ry aed ANGELES, CALIF. MIL RE ee ROY UTLEY, 310 PARK CENTRAL BLDG.. DAVID PETERSEN, 919 FIRST NATIONAL BANK BLDG., OGDEN, UTAH LOS ANGELES, CALIF. THOS. H. ROBINSON, 810 WHITE BLDG., ARCHER WILLEY, 605 CALIFORNIA BLDG., SEATTLE, WASH. ' OAKLAND, CALIF. GEORGE A. ZUNDEL, 4335 SACRAMENTO AVE., CHICO, CALIF. IDAHO J. SORENSEN, 310 PARK CENTRAL BLDG..
