The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JANUARY, 1939. VOL. XXVI - NO. 1
You and more than FORTY THOUSAND other women subscribers are the guests of the Relief Society Magazine each month as you step within our cover-walls. ADVERTISERS, too, are guests —welcome because of the great budget of news and helpful information they bring every month. There are some paying guests whom our Magazine does NOT welcome. We will not try to influence you to your detriment by taking advertising which in our judgment is contrary to the ideals and standards of the Latter-day Saints. Our advertisers are legitimate business organizations paying for the space they use just as they would pay for advertisements in any other high-class medium. They are in to secure business and as long as they can secure a fair amount of trade in proportion to the cost of advertising they will continue to be our paying guests. You can help us make the Magazine a much more valuable advertising medium by giving these advertisers as much business as you consistently can. Take the trouble to let them know you are conscious of their presence in the Magazine and bear in mind that the income from advertising can be a very important factor in keeping the subscription price at its present low level and will materially help sustain the many fine features that you enjoy in the Magazine each month.
The Magazine
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Mothers Know A Vitamin Reserve Helps Make Growing Children HAPPIER... HEALTHIER.
Your FUTURE depends Upon your TRAINING.
Fisher's
Start your business career now at the L. D. S. Business College
We'll Vitamin "D" Bread
Product of American Lady Baking Co.
70 No. Main Salt Lake City
YOUR BOOK STORE
The Deseret Book Company is YOUR book store, established to serve you. It is especially qualified to supply your needs in the following lines:
All lessons and study material for Relief Society classes. Church publications. Supplementary teaching aids for class work. Books for general reading.
Paper, pens, pencils, ink and other supplies. Gifts for all occasions. Personalized Greeting Cards. Visual education and all moving picture equipment.
Get acquainted with our many services. We specialize in serving by mail.
DESERET BOOK COMPANY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah
The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVI JANUARY, 1939 No. 1
Contents
Greetings ................................................ General Presidency of Relief Society 1 Frontispiece—How Beautiful This Snow.................. Christie Lund Coles 2 National Stewardship Convention................ President Louise Y. Robison 3 Alice Louise Reynolds.................................... Jennie B. Knight 5 Eliza R. Snow Poetry Contest: Cycle ................................................ Helen Hinckley Jones 8 Always At Night .................................... Eva Willes Wangsgaard 10 Today I Gathered Roses.............................. Grace Zenor Pratt 11 Romance of Quilting and Quilts........................... Lutie H. Fryer 12 Escape .................................................. Wilford D. Lee 15 Address ................................................ Elder Melvin J. Ballard 18 The First Relief Society Organization in Alaska............ Ann Parkinson Nibley 24 The Needs of the Human Body for Heat and Energy........ Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe 27 New Beginnings.......................................... Grace C. Jacobsen 30 Morning Music of the Immortals........................ Marianne C. Sharp 31 Women We Should Know................................. Ramona W. Cannon 32 Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd..................... Dorothy Clapp Robinson 35 Earthbound ............................................. Celia A. Van Cott 37 Happenings ............................................ Annie Wells Cannon 38 Interesting Verse—"Cornell"............................ Lula Greene Richards 39 Editorials: Confidence .......................................................... 40 Acknowledgment ..................................................... 41 Raffles—Games of Chance—Gambling.................................... 41 Items of Interest....................................................... 42 "Come Join Our Ranks"......................................... Leone G. Layton 45 Notes from the Field......................................... Julia A. F. Lund 46 Lesson Department............................................................ 50
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
GREETINGS
It is good to look forward with hope, to face the new year with thankful hearts, to have faith and dreams, to look forward to all those privileges and responsibilities that go into the making of a life. It is good to have that feeling of security which comes from having family and friends, and it is especially good to be able to count those friends by the thousands as do all who belong to our great Relief Society organization.
It is one of the glories of Relief Society that though among our 75,064 members there is a great variety of environments, there is the greatest unity of spirit. Our manners of speech may be different, we may even be different in certain set ideas, but beneath all that, we are alike in what we feel and are, alike in our ideals, alike in our love, and alike in our desire to serve. In all the widely scattered organizations one feels this essential unity.
What a great blessing it is to face life with a testimony that the Gospel is true, to know that God lives, that there is continuity to life, and that those relationships of family and friends, which make life so wonderful, will continue. The great ideal of Relief Society work is to help us put our relationship to our Father in Heaven and our human relationships on a higher level. As we go to our meetings we but put our market basket on our arm and go forth to obtain spiritual food, the real bread of life, to share with all with whom we associate, thus making us better wives, mothers and neighbors. Our prayer should ever be that we may have deeper insight, keener appreciation, finer sympathies, become so spiritually sensitive that we sense the needs of all, that we may identify ourselves in active sympathy with all who suffer. Thus only may we be worthy of our name Relief Society.
We can begin our work this new year better equipped than before because our understanding of the Gospel has increased, and we more fully realize that "we do not live for the sake of knowing but know for the sake of living." Let us strive as never before to keep our thinking straight and our hearts warm toward all persons. Let our faith be steady, let our love be deep, is our humble prayer for all Relief Society members.
Louise Y. Robison, Amy Brown Lyman, Kate M. Barker, General Presidency of Relief Society.
National Stewardship Convention By President Louise Y. Robison
A CONVENTION of great significance was held in the Stevens' Hotel, Chicago, November 1-2-3, 1938, under the auspices of the National Committee for Religious and Welfare Recovery. The general theme of the convention was "Stewardship in a Democracy." Sub-topics of this vital subject were discussed by many prominent people, all of whom stressed the need for spirituality in developing character. Catholics, Jews and Protestants united in a program for developing greater responsibility of parents in the home, better citizenship and higher spiritual standards.
The National Council of Women, cooperating with its Committee on Human Relations, appointed five delegates from the L. D. S. Relief Society to represent our organization at the convention. Most stirring appeals were made for youth, who, it was claimed, were divorced from spiritual values. The charge was made that parents are remiss in helping children develop character, and that all too often parents allow financial affairs to receive the greater consideration. This was illustrated by the old Jewish legend of Peter. Peter's parents were blessed with a bounteous harvest. Taking Peter with them the parents walked through the field rejoicing over the heavy heads of wheat and planning what comforts could be purchased when the grain was harvested. When the tour was finished they missed their little son—he had wandered away and was lost.
Many young people are lost spiritually through the attitude of a few instructors in high schools and colleges, who, although employed by parents, destroy the souls of students by sarcastic statements, such as, "Religion is the anesthetic of life," or as one professor advised when announcing a party, "those of you who think you have a soul—please park it outside." Parents have a rich opportunity for character education in selecting or supervising the types of books read by young people or the moving pictures seen. These two activities are mighty forces in building or injuring character.
In helping youth to meet life courageously we develop a valuable asset. One speaker said, "No man should deprive his child the development of self-effort. No matter what the financial status, parents should have children assume responsibility." In teaching the three R's, the most important are Reason, Reverence and Responsibility. It is estimated that millions of young people in the United States today, between the ages of seventeen and twenty-four, are without regular employment, many of them without religious training, who are ready to follow any leader offering a solution for their problem. The future of the nation depends upon the type of leadership which may arise. Realizing this grave condition, the appeal was made for the school, the home and the church to unite in a program for Religious Welfare Recovery, for spiritual mobilization to combat the mobilization of evil. We shall never have a nation of peace and justice until we have individual peace and justice founded upon love of man as well as love of God, and taught in the homes and in the schools. "The Mother must know how to interpret the world to the knowledge of children, it is she who builds the bridge of character from the home to the world outside, over which the child must go alone."
A Litany for Youth
"I come to thee, O God, in this litany of worship, "Hear my prayer, O Lord. "For the fathers and founders of my country; for the pioneers who felled the forests, tamed the rivers, tunneled its mountains, tapped the riches of its prairies; for the daring souls who went deep into mines and blocked out great cities; for the saints and prophets who made its laws, set up its system of government, gave their lives for its liberty, founded its schools and churches and homes— "For these, O God, I thank Thee. "Help me to hold sacred my body and all of the powers with which I am endowed; to grow in 'Wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man.' "This I pray, in Jesus' name. "Save me from any tendency to receive much from others and pass nothing on to the future. "Hear my prayer, O Lord. "Lead me to the tasks that are to be done; make me an instrument of thine; help me to prepare to give my best; and may I ever be true to thee, and to humanity. "Accept this commitment of myself."
(From The Future Belongs To You, by Roy A. Burkhart. Copyright, 1939. By permission the Abingdon Press.)
Alice Louise Reynolds By Jennie B. Knight
ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS, a choice and greatly beloved spirit, has gone to her reward, to His presence where is fullness of joy. The Gospel of Jesus Christ was the guiding star of her life. She had a great mind, a tender, understanding and friendly heart. She was gifted, particularly in her chosen field of literature. She was an ardent church worker and leader all her life; an uplifting force in her school and community. Her home was a haven of peace, confidence, culture and hospitality.
Alice Louise Reynolds was born April 1, 1873, in Salt Lake City, the daughter of George Reynolds and Mary Ann Tuddenham Reynolds. Her father, a cultured gentleman, was secretary to four presidents of the Latter-day Saint Church. He was the author of The Story of the Book of Mormon, the Book of Mormon Dictionary and the Concordance of the Book of Mormon, and his daughter was justly proud of his achievements. After her mother's death, when 13 years of age, Alice went to Provo with her sister Millie to attend the Brigham Young Academy. She became a student of Dr. Karl G. Maeser and was often a guest at his home. At the age of 17 she taught school in Salt Lake City and a year later in Nephi. In 1892 she entered the University of Michigan, doing some missionary work during the two years spent there. In 1894 she was appointed instructor of English at the Brigham Young Academy, and with the Class of 1895 received a degree of B. Pd. An enthusiastic supporter of the Brigham Young University she was identified with this school for forty-four years. She was made professor of English Literature in 1911.
Students who have taken her courses in Chaucer, Shakespeare, History of the English Novel, Wordsworth, Tennyson, Browning, and Literature of the Bible are numbered by thousands and are to be found in prominent positions in many of the states of the Union as well as in other lands. Next to her classes she was especially devoted to the building of an adequate library for the B. Y. U. and had the satisfaction of seeing its remarkable growth from a few volumes to its present size. The Alice Louise Reynolds section of the library, established in her honor, has 2,940 volumes, many of these books being her personal contributions, the balance given by her club members and friends. She served on the library committee for thirty-five years and as committee chairman for twenty years. Miss Reynolds was the first woman president of the Alumni Association of her Alma Mater. She was a veritable hostess for the school, having an art all her own in helping the presidents with whom she served in entertaining distinguished guests.
Her efforts in behalf of her Church were untiring. In addition to her school classes in religious education she was a teacher in the Sunday Schools, served the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association for many years as stake counselor, president and board member. She was an efficient member of the General Board of the National Woman's Relief Society, also serving as Associate Editor of the Relief Society Magazine from 1923 to 1928, and as Editor from 1928 to 1930. During this period she attended and participated in Relief Society Conventions in many of the stakes of Zion, gave lectures in the Idaho summer camps, and participated in general and ward Relief Society conferences. For eight years she wrote the literary lessons used by this organization. She also prepared lessons for the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association as well as for the General Sunday School Union Board. Because of her very sympathetic, generous nature, she was often called upon to speak at funerals, to assist in writing letters of condolence, resolutions of respect and appreciation to the bereaved. In 1934 she collaborated with our beloved Harrison R. Merrill in compiling one hundred sermonettes by Dr. George H. Brimhall which were published in a volume entitled Long and Short Range Arrows. She was writing the history of the Brigham Young University and of her own life, both of which were unfinished at the time of her passing. She was active in political affairs of both state and nation and was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in San Francisco in 1920, taking an active part in it. She attended the National Convention at Houston, Texas, in company with her beloved co-worker, Inez K. Allen, whose recent passing we also mourn.
Miss Reynolds was an extensive traveler and deeply interested in world affairs. She made four trips to Europe in the interest of additional education and enlarged friendships. While there she took a number of courses at European universities. She had many distinguished friends both at home and abroad. During her last visit to London in 1937 she was most happy in being the guest of her life-long friends, Apostle Richard R. and Amy Brown Lyman. Much as she enjoyed her early visit to Vienna and other wonderful cities of the continent, her last European trip was very precious to her. It was made soon after the coronation of King George VI of England, and during the Centenary of the introduction of the Gospel of Jesus Christ by the Latter-day Saints into England. President Heber J. Grant presided at this celebration and Miss Reynolds was an enthusiastic participant. Many delightful and enlightening hours have been enjoyed by members of churches, schools, clubs and home groups listening to her accounts of her trips abroad.
She had a keen interest in women's work. In 1922 she was presented with a wrist watch by Utah women in appreciation of her work and ability. This she very highly prized. She was a charter member of the B. Y. U. Women's Organization, the Sorosis and Nelkie Reading Clubs. Dear to her heart were the twelve Alice Louise Reynolds Clubs which were organized by groups of her students and friends, for the purpose of study and cultural development and for the cementing of friendships. Since 1932 these groups have celebrated her birthday with receptions, banquets or programs. She was always gratefully appreciative of these events. She radiated the Gospel light wherever she went and was a charter member of the Yeasharah Club, which is an organization of lady missionaries.
A devoted daughter and solicitous sister she took great delight in any success or joy that came to the various members of the large family of which she was a part. Her grief at their trials and sorrows was intense. No effort on her part was ever too great if it could bring sunshine to their hearts and homes, and she always had their devotion and love. Her home was a home of interest and hospitality. Here were many treasures, valuable topics of conversation. She had collected paintings, pieces of sculpture, beautiful china, and a rare collection of autographed books, which she said was her hobby. These volumes will, as requested by her, be placed in her section of the Heber J. Grant Library.
Alice Louise Reynolds will always hold a choice place in the hearts of her friends. One of her close friends, counselor Kate M. Barker, wrote of her, "Hers was a choice spirit trained in logical thinking, gifted with exceptional power of written and oral expression, with a wonderful breadth of appreciation—a great mind and a great heart coupled with unaffected simplicity and tenderness which made her appreciated by old and young." We all miss her greatly but are thankful for her life, that she was our friend and co-worker, and feel assured that she was "Borne in a moment at the heart's last beat To realms more perfect than she dared to dream."
Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest
Cycle (A Sonnet Sequence) By Helen Hinckley Jones (Awarded First Prize, Eliza R. Snow Poetry Contest)
The Blossoming
Persephone returns. Her gossamer Flung light on every spring-warmed branch to dry Breathes fragrance delicate, and paints a blur Of loveliness against the rifted sky. Beside the gate the lilacs burst to flower, The roses riot golden in the lane, In ecstasy the orchard waits the hour When apple blossoms are in bloom again. And when the misty blossoms' opening Has made a fairy ceiling for our room, We children take our dolls out to the swing And play at keeping house. We love the bloom Of apple trees. We sense that mystic thing That we, like apples, blossom in the spring.
The Ripening
Demeter's pregnant breath in ray-shot haze Clings warmly where the thicket berries turn From green to dripping purple. And the days Pass slowly, rich in miracle. The burn Of sun is golden on the apricot And ruddy amber on the pear. The stems Release the rose-dipped peach; and in the lot The juice-crisp apples are Aladdin's gems. Then, when the long day sleeps and fruited limbs Stand black against moon-whitened skies, we stroll Down to the frayed old swing. My memory skims The years since first I felt the orchard's soul. And now I know beneath the apple tree The fruitful days have also come for me.
The Waiting
Cold Boreas blows. His chilly finger lays Upon earth's pulse. Her warm heart scarce can beat Against the frigid pressure. Now he plays A dirge-like tune through naked trees whose feet Are banked with rotted fruit and dying leaves. Then comes the snow. In mockery of spring Bare branches bow beneath sharp snow and sheaves Of ice fruit, in a dreary blossoming. But still the orchard calls to me, and I Must stand again beneath the apple tree; I think I hear the snow-bowed branches sigh— It's hard for mothers to wait patiently— "Where are my seeds, and will they wake and grow?" My seed is safe, and it will live I know. Oh apple mother, spent with wondering, All earth will waken in the warmth of spring.
Always At Night (A Sonnet Sequence) By Eva Willes Wangsgaard (Awarded Second Prize, Eliza R. Snow Poetry Contest)
I Fear
The night hung low around the Saints in camp Circled by plains; the purple quiet broken Only by stars and the oxen's hunger champ— These and the weight of brooding words unspoken. Virginia wept beside her leaden spouse, Sickened by smells of camp fire smoke and labor, Spent with the longing for her father's house Back on the sunrise trail beside a neighbor. The right the unborn have to growth and room Crowded her aching heart till life was banded By dread, unending weariness, and gloom Bought at the price the wilderness demanded. Always at night her longing thoughts turned back, Torn from all peace by a lengthening wagon track.
II Faith Restored
"A wagon train is headed east at dawn. Jim will not come. He is no man for turning. Well, let him trek. Morning will find me gone; Love has grown thin on too much fear and yearning." Her mind made up, she rose, aware of grief More felt than heard, and found a widow weeping— Back on the trail like any autumn leaf Locked in the earth, this friend's last child lay sleeping— Virginia coaxed, "These wilds can be recrossed. Come. All is gone." The widow's faith rose flaming, "Who dares say all? Can God's own Cause be lost? No! Zion waits, and deserts want reclaiming." The young wife flushed, and fear was conquered there While she knelt shamed and heard her friend in prayer.
III The Widow's Prayer
"I do not ask them back—that cannot be— My sons Thou didst take home when fever swept; Nor do I ask for him who cherished me Till Thou didst call.... How quietly they slept! But if in dreams their eyes return and shine, Let them bring joy and not this tearing storm; If dreams shall place his hand again in mine, Lend me the strength to feel it kind and warm. This grace I ask is not for me alone— Though empty years to woman's heart are long— For strength is garnered not from flesh and bone, But from the spirit fed by joy and song. I would have all their strength within my hand That thus through me they build the Promised Land."
Today I Gathered Roses By Grace Zenor Pratt (Awarded Third Prize, Eliza R. Snow Poetry Contest)
Today I gathered choicest roses, one by one, weeping— White roses, pure, long stemmed and fragrant To offer her who loved all nature so—, And all the while I wondered could she know— Could she but feel this deep regret and pain Of mine, when I recall the unkind things My thoughtless lips had spoken yesterday: How I had smiled at her poor ways, her house so poorly kept; I had been blind... And 'twas for this I wept. That shy brief way of hers I could not understand— And now her lips are silent, I shall never know How great are silent ones who live and suffer so. I could not know that yesterday would be her last, When she passed by and I so coolly spoke— I might have made a moment's passing cheer Had I the silence broke and spoke to her... Today I gathered choicest roses, one by one, weeping— To lay them at her feet— Tenderly, reverently, now that she is dead, And yet my penance seems so incomplete...
Romance of Quilting and Quilts By Lutie H. Fryer Assistant Professor—University of Utah
The intimate things of life, those that surround us as we grow up, become so much a part of everyday existence that we never think of their beginnings. If we saw them for the first time perhaps we would feel curious about their origin, but as it is, to us they never began. They just are. Such is the case of quilts.
Quilt making as a homecraft art has played no small part in the growth and development of civilization in its march across the ages. In America from the earliest colonial times to the present quilts were a necessary part of pioneer homemaking, then as a product of awakened desire for beauty in the home, and now this twentieth century revival is an appreciation of that art, which of all the time-honored household arts has withstood the machine age, and has by no means reached the climax.
As known today, the quilt is the result of combining two kinds of needlework, both of very ancient origin, but widely different in character. Patchwork is the art of piecing together fabrics of various kinds and colors; it was used by the Egyptians for their clothes, wall decoration, and furniture. Quilting is the method of fastening together layers of cloth to secure firmly the "filling". We find that knights of the middle ages wore quilted jackets under their heavy armor to protect their bodies. Such a garment was called a "jamberson". Before the ages of tapestry, the great halls were hung with quilted pictures. At the entrances, too, there was a similar hanging, because the great oaken doors, that were barricades in case of attacks, could not be opened and shut as the members of the household came and went. We still see evidences of these door curtains in some of the older churches in Europe where the metal or wooden doors are far too heavy to open each time someone enters. Later the quilted hangings were replaced by embroidered pictures and they in turn by tapestries, but quilting still held its own for bed clothes and curtains. From 1545 to almost 1620, quilting was used on some of the finest costumes; many of the skirts were quilted and embroidered in gold, and studded with pearls and other gems. In museums there are many beautiful examples of quilted petticoats that were worn during the 18th Century. Sometimes the overskirt hid the petticoat almost entirely except for a narrow panel down the front; at other times it showed beneath panniers of handsome brocade.
The quilt as we know it in America was in the beginning a strictly utilitarian article, born of the necessity of providing warm covers for beds and hangings for doors and windows to help keep out the cold winter and was so intimately connected with the everyday life of the colonies that no record of it exists. Within the four walls of the crude log cabins there was little thought of adornment or art, and yet the artistic longing, latent or inherited, in every woman where her home is concerned, unconsciously expressed itself in her quilts.
Under the general title of "Patchwork" we may consider three different kinds of quilts: First, the pieced quilt, showing the pieced patch set together in various ways and quilted in designs. Nearly all quilts made in America prior to 1750 were pieced quilts. Second, the appliqued, patched, or "laid-on" quilt, usually in floral design and considered by some as more elegant than the humble "pieced" variety. Applique for quilt-making came into favor about the middle of the eighteenth century and reached its climax about 1850. With the late revival of patchwork it has reached a perfection of artistic color combination and needlecraft far superior to anything made in earlier times. Third, the quilted counterpane which is usually white, producing a decorative value by use of padded or corded quilting in elaborate design.
The pieced quilt, made of pieces of fabric cut after a pattern and sewed together to form a block or repeat, was familiar to most households where economy was a necessity, as it was created of scraps of material not otherwise used. The precious scraps of printed cottons, so rare and costly in that day, were highly treasured for quilt blocks. The applique quilt is apt to be a more artistic expression of the quilter's craft, in that it is created out of new or whole cloth. It offers greater freedom for the expression of the designer's artistic nature. History tells us very little about the patchwork quilt prior to 1750, but between 1750 and 1850 many quilts were pieced and patched and many are now the cherished possessions of great-granddaughters of the original makers. All the old favorite quilt patches had interesting generic names. These names are intriguing. Religion, occupations, politics, nature in its various phases, and their meager social activities all contributed their quota to the quilt names of colonial days. Rose of Sharon, Star of Bethlehem, Anvil, Ship's Wheel, Carpenter's Wheel, Churn Dash, Water Mill, Whig Rose, Lincoln's Platform, Democrat Rose, Sun Dial, Autumn Leaf, Garden Maze, Ocean Wave, and Eight Hands Around are a few well chosen familiar names. Volumes could be written on the "Quilting Bee" and the part it played in the social life in pioneer days. Not having the modern conveniences for exchanging choice bits of gossip, the quilting bee afforded an excellent means of broadcasting the latest events, such as engagements, births, styles for women, etc. Here patterns were exchanged freely.
The quilt's place in art is an important one, as the making of patchwork quilts is one of the most picturesque of all the folk-arts. It is the only homecraft that has withstood the machine age. Much of the beauty expressed by our architects, poets and artists of today had its first fling in these humble creations in the hands of our pioneer mothers. Bed-quilts, so essential to comfort, made them the most important form of needlework prior to about 1750. Alice Morse Earl, in Home Life in Colonial Days, says: "The feminine love of color, the longing for decoration, as well as pride in needlecraft, found riotous expression in quiltmaking. Women eagerly exchanged patterns with one another; they talked over the designs and admired pretty bits of calico and pondered what combinations to make, with far more zest than women discuss art or examine art specimens today."
History repeats itself and today the old-fashioned quilt is the newfashioned quilt, and the old patterns are as much at home among modern furnishings as they were among Queen Anne or Victorian furniture. One of the most modern touches in the present-day bedroom is a lovely old patchwork quilt of grandmother's, the priceless relic of bygone days. But women of today make a study of their bedrooms before selecting their quilts, so that the color-harmony and the pattern will be most suitable. Today a quilt may form a perfect symphony in one room and be a discord in another. In the colonial bedroom, where the bed was the principal piece of furniture, the quilt was the central motif, the object of first consideration both in pattern and coloring. The other decorations were of minor importance, hence there was no thought of matching the quilt to any particular color scheme. Some of the loveliest examples of quilts were made during the Victorian era; they are an inspiration for quilt makers of today. The patterns are beautiful, especially when made up in soft, blended hues.
So many lovely old quilts have come to light the past few years, some with gay colors and others that have mellowed into soft tints and shades that make us want to touch them to see if they are real. They are growing old gracefully. If they could talk they would tell us interesting stories of romance, travel or old-time garden parties when our grandmothers were young. Of course, we probably always will have those quilts that live in seclusion, that never know a ray of sunshine or a breath of fresh air, unless they are on display for a few hours, then back into hiding. Quilts have always seemed so human that one wonders if they do not feel neglected when they are hidden away most of the time. It is gratifying to know that many rare old quilts are being used today instead of being packed away where no one can enjoy them; and whether they be red and green or made of softer hues they find enthusiastic friends wherever they may be found.
Today the country is "quilt-conscious" and the making of quilts in the home has become astonishingly popular. Interest centers around authentic antique designs or modern ones that have definite artistic merit. A quotation from Florence Bedell of the University of Colorado may help us to appreciate quilts: "If you wish to collect something, and every one should collect something, quilts will make a most interesting and beautiful collection. Of course, association means much, so one from your own ancestors will be most valuable to you. With our present 'renaissance of old furniture and houschold articles,' the value of quilts is going up year by year. A few years ago a quilt made of pieces of dresses of Presidents' wives was offered for sale in Colorado for $25,000. If you cannot own such highly prized quilts, you can at least enjoy reading and studying about them so that when the opportunity comes you can look at a quilt with more appreciation."
Time adds significance to every quilt, whether you make it yourself or receive it as a gift. Enjoy it as you would any art treasure. With an artistic setting a quilt of gay colors is akin to a choice mosaic or a costly cameo of rare beauty.
Escape By Wilford D. Lee
ELSIE MANNING lifted her pencil from the paper and reread the lines which she had just written. The words reflected back into her soul the subtle emotion which she had tried to put into them. An excited flush warmed her lean cheeks, and sent a flow through her work-hardened body.
Water lilies floating on a limpid pool, Moon-lit silver glancing brilliantly, The breath of night's long hush, A sighing breeze That sweeps the moon-glanced basin to the rim, And the water lilies dip and sway...... Like the breeze, emotion sweeps my aching Breathes softly from the depths of longing And thoughts a dancing in the white lilies on a moon-lit stream....
The far-away tinkle of tug chains broke into her reverie, shattering the spell which the woman had woven about herself. As the tinkling became clearer, she became acutely aware of the immediate time and place, of the staggering heat of the little shanty with its unpainted walls and bare floor. The only polished piece of furniture in the room was the little writing desk. It was made of satiny walnut and seemed to be an incongruous intrusion upon the bare furnishings of the room. The desk was a present from her maternal grandmother. Each day it recalled to her mind the two magic, Alice-in-Wonderland years when she had lived with that lovely old lady in the big house and had been her sole companion. She arose and with a soft cloth removed the film of dust that had gathered on it, then turned to her other work. She whipped the potatoes to a white froth, cut the large slices of bread, filled the granite cups with water, and. Then stepping outside she returned the heavy canvas water sack to its nail.
Heat waves shimmered across the rolling landscape as four horses, streaked with sweat and dirt, moved toward the house in a cloud of dust. Elsie hurried to the cistern to pump water before Frank had stopped the team. As he released the horses one by one, they hurried to the watering trough. One horse, an evil-faced bay, veered toward a little poplar tree, and reached out to nip off a mouthful of the leaves, the only green for miles about. The woman shouted at him, catching up a stick to drive him off. She remained guard over the little tree until all the horses had passed.
When Frank came to the house from feeding his team, Elsie had a big basin of water waiting for him on a bench just outside the door. His face was a dirt-colored mask through which his eyes and teeth flashed startlingly.
"How much water is there left in the cistern?" he asked, rolling up his sleeves.
"It's getting pretty low," she replied. "You'll have to haul tomorrow. Is John through with the tank?"
The man turned and looked off to the west where a little shanty not unlike their own was set against a ragged semicircle of trees. "That looks like the tank there by his cistern now," he observed. "Did you notice how many trips he made this morning?"
"This is only his second," his wife replied. "He usually makes three."
"That double tree must have broke," he scowled, blowing the water over his face and rubbing a rough hand over his neck. "We couldn't find a very good stick for it last week."
"Will you haul tomorrow then?" she asked.
"I guess I'll have to."
After dinner, Frank went out and looked at the car which stood by the side of the house. The rear tire was down, so he pumped it up. The top was gone, and the body, behind the front seat, was cut away and made into the semblance of a truck body. As he was backing the car around the woman screamed. He jammed on an ineffective brake, but he could not stop until he had bent the little tree over and scraped off some bark from the trunk. He scowled as he jerked the machine forward and swung away. When he had gone, Elsie took a piece of cloth and bound the bark back into place.
When the dishes were done, the woman took two ten-pound lard pails, an old magazine, some paper, and the now empty water bag from its nail and started east along the dimly marked road. Soon she came to the rim of a canyon, a deep gorge cut through the flat earth. The creek looked cool and inviting as she stood there contemplating the pleasant scene. With sure step she started down the slope. At the sound of her coming two boys, one about ten and the other twelve, came out from the shade of a clump of bushes to wave to her. As she came closer, they caught up their buckets of berries to show her how many they had picked.
"We found a lot today, Mother," the older boy exulted. "There's a patch of service berry bushes down by that old mine just loaded with berries."
"And I found some currants, too, Ma," said Willie proudly. "I put them on the bottom of the bucket. Gee, they're good!"
The mother smiled. "I'll bet you ate more than you put in the pail, didn't you?" she asked, brushing the boy's long hair back out of his eyes.
They moved out of the hot sun into the shade of the bushes. Jack, the older boy, glanced down at the papers his mother was carrying. "Are you writing another story, Mom?" he asked.
She smiled a little sadly. "Another... And another... Another...."
"Gee, you've wrote lots of 'em, ain't you, Mom?" Willie observed. "What's the matter, don't they like 'em?"
"No, they don't seem to."
"Gosh, we do. That is, some of 'em,—the funny ones."
"It is hard to write a funny story here," she told them.
The boys emptied pails and then went off in search of more berries. The mother found a shady spot and opened the Writer's Journal, much thumbed and in many places heavily underlined. One passage she re-read:
"Most amateur writers love to describe that which they have never seen, reveling in those scenes and situations which they have never experienced. Not until they are capable of describing that which is about them and weaving their own real-life situations into their literature will they be successful."
She turned further and re-read a full-page advertisement:
"Magazine offers a prize of $100 for the best short story on an agricultural theme.... It must be bright in its viewpoint, depicting real life accomplishment.... Second prize $50 and a third prize of $25.... Manuscripts must be in by July First...."
It was now over a month since she had sent in her manuscript, but as yet she had heard nothing from it. The hope that filled her soul ebbed or waned as she speculated upon the chances of winning the coveted prize. Did the delay mean that they were seriously considering her manuscript, or did it mean that it was lying stacked with thousands of others awaiting the attention of a negligent clerk.... With a sigh she shut the magazine and took up her pencil. All through the hot afternoon she scribbled industriously. Her face, now lighted by the enthusiasm for her toil, reflected with versatile utterance the gamut of emotions through which her nimble mind ran. When the sun sank below the rim of the canyon, she called to the boys, "We will have to hurry now, or Father will be in before we get home."
When they arrived at the house, the father was not there; the horses, which had not been hitched up at all that afternoon, nickered quietly for water as the boys came by the cistern. The boys unharnessed the horses, then fed and watered them while their mother chopped awkwardly at a crooked stick of quaking asp and made a fire. It was not until the setting sun had tinged the whole landscape with a wash of rose light that they saw the old car coming over the horizon.
When the man arrived, he was in a savage mood. She could tell that from the way he banged the battered old door of the car.
"Jack," he snapped at the boy who was playing by the shed, "water and feed the horses. Haven't I told you that when I'm gone..."
"They're all watered and fed," the woman told him quietly, "and we are waiting for supper."
He stamped around to the front of the house, took off his dust-covered jacket and hat, and rolled up his sleeves. "John smashed that double tree," he growled, splashing into the water. "Had to go clear to town after a new one."
"How did you pay for it?" she inquired.
"Didn't. Had to run my face," he mumbled. "Can't John pay for it? He broke it."
"He hasn't got any more than we have. He couldn't buy anything, you know that." He sloshed the basin of dirty water into the bucket beside the bench. She made no reply.
When he came in she asked, "Did you get the mail?"
For some reason he gave a short cynical laugh. "Yes, I got it."
Before her husband and the boys were through with their supper, the woman left the table and stepped out into the starlit night. How bright the stars were! How silent and far away... And promising. The mail... A strange excitement animated her as she made her way toward the car. An enthralling intuition quickened her breath and set her heart pounding. She took a deep breath.... Why had Frank laughed that way? Her hand explored the cold leather seat bottom of the car. It touched the sheaf of letters and papers scattered about. She gathered them up and felt again....
Her heart sank. There it was, a large flat envelope—her manuscript. She took it up, and pressing it close to her bosom, drew in a long quivering sigh. Escape? No wonder Frank had laughed cynically. She had tried to escape? She had hoped... She had prayed... She had worked... Reached out an arm, a pulsating, quivering hand in the hope that it might find anchorage somewhere, that she might draw herself—all of them—out of this....
For a long time she stood there quivering in the darkness. She gazed again at the stars... So far away... So inscrutable. Why did ambition rise in her like hot blood only to be chilled forever by blinding disappointment! Her throat was tight. Idly she moved in front of the car. The dim light from the window shone on the radiator. A large butterfly, with its wings frayed and singed, was caught in the honeycombed grill. Her eyes were wet with tears as she plucked the butterfly out of its torture and held it on her work-stained hand. "The wheel of fortune! A poor, beautiful thing broken across the ridge of modern civilization!" she murmured.... The butterfly fluttered to the earth, a lovely piece of beauty, ravished and broken. It seemed that something within her, too, had died. Was it merely hope or was it soul itself!
She walked into the house and laid the mail beside her plate. "Well, I see that it came back," her husband scoffed. The "I-told-you-so" was so obvious that she turned upon him with a flash of anger.
"You... You..." Oh, why had she ever confided in him her hope.
"Aw, don't get sore. It's all right, I guess, only..."
"Only what?" She breathed deeply and blinked back the tears.
"Well... I don't mind little luxuries once in a while if we can afford 'em but postage and paper for those things..."
"I've sold three poems. I have eight dollars... Or I did have. I'm using that for my postage."
"Eight dollars!" He sat bolt upright. She bit her lip. The exultation died within her. Why had she told him! That double tree! She could see the light growing in his eyes. She would not have that money tomorrow. How far they had come since they were married! How far apart.... But in a moment she caught herself. She could not blame him. This life... It did things to some people, queer things that made them small inside....
Unnoticed by Frank she slipped outside. She must fight it out here and now. Could she ever escape this drab, disheartening existence? If not, how was she to content herself? Should she keep on writing—for herself—and live in a dream world of her own creating, unsatisfactory and pathetic as that was?
That story... About herself. The obvious foolishness of it all smote her. Presumptuous for her to think that she could write in competition with thousands of others, well educated, experienced, well trained. Bitterness welled up in her. She dropped upon the earth beneath the little tree and wept.
When the weeping had passed, she felt better. Something of the bitterness of life had flowed out of her with the tears. Was she like a butterfly, senseless, save for a few instincts implanted within her by some higher power? Was she like a tree, fixed and rooted, that could not move nor act for itself? They were insensible to this mystic beauty about them, although they were a part of it.
She suddenly realized, as if she had just acquired new eyes, that all this was beautiful! She could understand and feel.... The appreciation of beauty.... That was it! Everywhere about her she could feel it and know its vitalizing power in life. She leaped to her feet. The drab of her day-self was gone. How Frank would have marvelled had he seen her now! Vibrant, pulsating, alive, magnificent! But he slept audibly in the lean-to.
The faintly-felt images came flooding into her being, growing stronger as they became more understandable. She knew! Now she understood. Life was a mystic experience to be lived, within. She suddenly realized that she had been indulging in entirely too much self-pity. She had a mind... Keen, alive, penetrating. She would live in that mind, for that mind, to perpetuate it, to give it new life in the souls of others. What did it matter if they did come back, those stories of hers? She would write them again... And again... And again! There was joy! The joy of creation! At least on paper she could make people do as she wanted them to. She would speak through her characters, for she had something to say.
This last story.... There in the moonlight she went over it line by line in her mind, then looked at it as a whole. It was a sad thing, sadness unrelieved by any hope. The woman was herself. The land was this land. The life she had depicted was her life. Her fertile mentality stirred itself under the inspiration of her new vision. She must give the story life and hope, that was what it lacked. With renewed vigor, she hurried into the house and lit the lamp. Almost joyfully she ripped open the big brown envelope and withdrew the sheets. To her surprise, instead of the usual printed rejection slip she found a typewritten letter. She took it up in her trembling fingers and read:
"Dear Mrs. Manning:
"We are sorry that your story did not win the prize in our contest. It was not the type of thing we wanted. But it is so well written that with a few changes we will buy it at our usual rates. Would you change your title from 'Chained' to 'Escape' and rework your ending so that your woman—she is an extremely interesting character—gives us some ray of hope?
"Sincerely yours, "The Editors."
The strength left her limbs, and she sank down on a chair by the table. Burying her head in her arms, she wept almost hysterically. When she raised her head, there was a smile upon her lips and a light of holiness in her eyes. She had escaped!
Address Elder Melvin J. Ballard (Relief Society Conference, October, 1938)
The Relief Society won my first love and is the organization of the Church to which I first belonged, because my mother was a Relief Society president when I was born, and she served as such for thirty years; so I was trained in the Relief Society.
Speaking for the Authorities of the Church here today, I have been asked to discuss the place of the Relief Society in the Welfare Program. I am very sure that you know your place, but it sometimes is good to go back to fundamentals and restate them, then upon that basis measure what is being done, and look forward to the future. I am going to read a few extracts from the first address which the Prophet gave on the occasion of the organization of the Relief Society. Among other things he said:
"This charitable Society is according to your natures, it is natural for females to have feelings of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious. If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates.... This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls.... And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence, shall flow down from this time."
In illustrating the objects of the Society the Prophet also said: "That the Society of sisters might provoke the brethren to good works, in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants; to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community, and save the elders the trouble of rebuking; that they may give their time to other duties, etc., in their public teachings."
In our great Welfare movement the Presidency of the Church kept well in mind the assignment that had been made to the Relief Society in the beginning; and the Welfare movement does not contemplate taking away from the sisters their assignment. I am quoting from a statement of the First Presidency in April, 1936, when this work was inaugurated: "Upon ward teachers and the Relief Society must rest the prime responsibility for discovering and appraising the wants of the needy in the ward. These must be administered through the regular organizations of the Church."
Some of you may have, therefore, felt that because the brethren were called into the Welfare program that your privileges were trampled upon and that you were relieved of your responsibility. Now if anyone has that notion I would like to set her right, because the auxiliary organizations have been called from ancient times until this time, and in revelations the Lord refers to them as helpers in government to the Priesthood. In fundamentals I am sure we are all agreed that the responsibility of going forward in this Church rests upon the Priesthood, that divine authority which God has seen fit to give unto the brethren. Someone must hold this responsibility. Of course a woman does not hold the Priesthood, but there are no blessings, privileges, nor exaltation given to husbands who hold the Priesthood that will not come to wives in just as full measure if they are faithful. The man holds the key that unlocks the door to privileges and blessings, but the Lord has also placed a responsibility upon the sisters to provoke the brethren to magnify their callings. You have been willing to do this, you have enabled men to become bishops, stake presidents, and high councilmen, and give most of their time to the Church. You are making sure that he who holds the key that shall unlock the door to your exaltation shall not lose that key; and he must magnify his calling or he will lose it. There is no power, no influence in this Church greater than that which the sisters hold, and we could not do without them.
But sisters, the reason the brethren called this Welfare organization into existence was not to tell you that you had failed, nor was it to tell you that they were going to take it over now. A climax of unemployment and relief had been reached—we had made a survey of the Church that startled us. Due to the depression, the long period of unemployment, and the great losses that had come to people, we found—including men, women and children—80,000 members of this Church in a perilous situation. We said, "This is too big a job to put entirely upon the Relief Society; the brethren now must rally to this task,"—hence this Welfare organization. You come in as a part of it, from the general committee where Sister Robison and her associates sit with us from week to week, to the stakes and the wards—you are a part of it. We have called upon the quorums of the Priesthood, who, after all, are to solve the problem. These shepherds—the High Priests, Seventies and Elders—should assume the responsibility of looking after their flock. They should be a group affiliated with the Relief Society, to strengthen the hands of the sisters, to provide food, shelter and clothing for those in need. If we have, therefore, emphasized the new assistants to you in this organization it has been because we measured the size of the job, and felt it was too big to put the entire load upon your shoulders, able as you are. We knew also that we could not do this work without you. You have a very conspicuous place.
The welfare problem developed as the result of circumstances that occurred during what we called the depression, and it is not going to disappear in a moment. It was not a thing that we could take care of in a year or two years; we never anticipated that, and unfortunately we were misquoted, because we did not declare that within a year we would take everyone off government relief. We say to those who have any type of government work, "Stay with it until you can better yourselves." Our great task is to win people voluntarily to leave public relief work as soon as they can. Why? Because we know as well as we know that we live, that the great expenses of the last several years must stop or this country cannot carry the load. Indebtedness has reached over thirty-nine billions of dollars. I do not think that the Government is in any danger of bankruptcy; I would not have you think that, but it cannot go on indefinitely. Suppose it should suddenly cease! I am not criticizing the expenditures that have been made. I know this, that unless there had been vast sums of money expended to care for the hungry in this country we would have had revolution long before this. Probably it may have been spent unwisely, but the motives were to stave off what would ultimately have caused trouble. I care not how good you are, if you are deprived of food you feel the pangs of hunger, and if you hear the cry of distress on the part of your children and those depending upon you, and there is an abundance in the land and you cannot get it by your own effort honorably, you will be tempted to help yourself.
I was in Cleveland last May attending a convention of the Boy Scouts of America. There were 87,000 people on relief in that great city, and no money with which to obtain food for them, nor would there be until July. I heard men stand up in that great throng of unemployed people and say, "Let us go down to the warehouse or store and help ourselves." I saw women go from door to door with baskets on their arms, asking for food. We know this is a serious problem which must be solved. Some have the opinion that the Government has an inexhaustible store, and if they can just get from the Government it is all right. Every dollar the Government expends—either the city, state or national government—must be secured from the taxes of the people. Should taxes be put so high that people cannot pay them then property will be taken over. Let that go on and it would not be many years before we would be in a state of communism.
I believe that the greatest contribution that can be made through our Welfare program is to change the attitude of people toward relief. There came a situation where it seemed as if everyone were trying to get relief. It is a good deal like the quotation: "Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As, to be hated, needs but to be seen; Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace." When relief and relief work were offered we did not embrace it at first, but we grew familiar with it, we saw others embrace it, we pitied ourselves and then many embraced it. I am appealing to you to continue to stimulate every man and woman, young or old, to be independent, and it is our business to help him to be independent.
You sometimes hear an altogether too frequent criticism against the President of this Church because of the appeals he has made to people to be independent. There is a great misunderstanding concerning the Old Age Assistance, and I speak of this because we are embarrassed that nearly half the people in the State over 65 years of age—and the same is true of Idaho—are on Old Age Assistance. Why are they there? Because many people call it a pension until the feeling has grown and developed that it is a thing people are entitled to whether they need it or not. Many have qualified. Some disposed of their property to their children in order to qualify. It used to be that children had to say why they did not take care of their parents; now they are excused. It used to be that a person deeded his property to the State, and had a life right to it, but after death it was sold by the State. Now if they have less than $3,000 assessed valuation they may keep it all. Now do not understand that the President of this Church would deprive any aged brother or sister of food, shelter or clothing. There is no more generous heart in this world than President Grant's toward the suffering and destitute, and particularly aged people. We say that every aged man or woman who has paid his tithing and supported this Church ought not to have to go to public relief; we ought to take care of him; he has a claim upon this Church. For those who have never supported the Church and have no claim other than our sympathies, we have paid taxes to help in their care, but we do feel that with them, too, we can do a fine piece of missionary work in winning their loyalty to the Church. The man or woman who has never supported the Church, whether he be young or old, has no claim upon us, but those who will repent and support the Church and be loyal to it, then certainly they have a claim upon us.
Now brothers and sisters, teach people to have the spirit of independence. It ought to be a reflection upon any son or daughter who is able to take care of a father and mother to let them accept Old Age Assistance. Old Age Assistance should not be regarded as a pension. Pensions are now being set up under the Security Act of the Government, by which the employee gives a portion of what he receives as salary and the business he works for contributes a similar amount, and this sets up a fund which, in times of old age or lack of work, may be drawn upon. Old Age Assistance has no such fund, it is secured through the sales tax or other taxes, and if it should be suddenly cut off many people would be without that aid and help so important to them. Our appeal is to encourage every family to look after its father and mother if possible, and not make them subjects of public charity. We would not say that those whose children will not support them, and who have no income, should not have Old Age Assistance. They are entitled to it if they cannot get help from any other source.
In order to help people to be independent we have a plan to build apartments around some of our temples where aged people may go and work on the records of people who are supporting them, and find joy in a service that earns them the food they eat and the shelter that is theirs. We would like to see this work extended until we can take care of thousands.
God bless you sisters for what you have done—a noble work. You are entitled to far more credit than the brethren. Although we put the burden upon the brethren you must go hand in hand with them; they are trying to help you carry your great assignment. This Welfare program is the greatest thing before the Church. We must not fail, we will not fail; but we will not fully succeed unless every man and woman does his utmost to assist in the solution of the problem. God bless you and give you the vision to see the future, the courage to dare to go forward and influence the hearts of men and women to yield to our program, to accept of our cooperation, and to find security indeed in the Church in the Lord's own way, that will endure when troublesome times shall come.
The First Relief Society Organization in Alaska By Ann Parkinson Nibley
Before the Russians, English, Spanish, French, or Americans came to Alaska it was the country of the Indian and the Eskimo, and although today it is the white man's country, both in numbers and influence, the background of native customs and handicraft is apparent everywhere. In Ketchikan one has opportunity to see and study the weirdly carved, brightly colored totem poles, grotesque reminders of bygone days, reminders of the rich native lore which is woven so definitely into Alaska's history. "These hand-carved family trees were at no time regarded by the Alaskan Indians as idols of worship; instead, they represent the coats of arms of tribes and clans and serve to preserve and transmit ancient legends and traditions among a race with no written language." "Totemism is recorded history, genealogy, legend, and art. The genealogical pole is usually erected directly in front of its owner's house and, as the name indicates, gives the genealogy of the family within. The wife's totem crowns the top, next the husband's, and so on down. Any native passing by and seeing the pole can tell at a glance the clan of the mother, which is the ruling one of the house. From this he will know whether or not he would be welcome to enter and stay there. If the ruling family of the house is not of his totem he passes on." The Eskimos, so often thought to be native to all Alaska, are a distinct race and are seen in their native habitats only along the Bering Sea and within the Arctic Circle.
The waters of Alaska's Inside Passage, smooth as a lake, are the greatest fishing waters in the world. Northward from Juneau, across the Gulf of Alaska, as if guarding the coast line, stands the highest coastal mountain range in the world. The gigantic Fairweather mountains and Mt. St. Elias, over 18,000 feet high, are visible for miles. Boats stop at Columbia Glacier, known as the world's largest glacier visited by ocean-going steamers. This stupendous moving ice river is three miles wide where it enters the sea, extending thirty miles back into the mountains. One reads that "glaciers should not be associated with an intensely cold climate, but with continuous warm, moisture-laden winds and clouds, and high elevation, so high that the winter snows of centuries will not be entirely removed by the summer sun."
Seward, "The Gateway City," 1,856 miles from Seattle, named in honor of William H. Seward, who as Secretary of State negotiated for the purchase of Alaska from Russia for a sum of $7,200,000 is a picturesque little city, sheltered by mountain ranges 3,000 to 7,000 feet high, and located on beautiful Resurrection Bay, so named by Baranof, its discoverer, who sailed into its peaceful waters on Easter morning. From Seward the Government Railroad carries one inland 480 miles to Fairbanks. En route is Anchorage, a busy little city resting on a beautiful plateau above the waters of historic Cook's Inlet. Here several Latter-day Saints have located. Leaving Anchorage the train enters the fertile Matanuska valley, famed for its Government colonization project. One of the grandest sights in the entire world is Alaska's Mt. McKinley, the "monarch of the North American mountains." Measured in height above its immediate base Mt. McKinley is the highest peak in the world. In their native worship, the Indians called it "Mt. Denali."
Fairbanks is Alaska's "Golden Heart". Here one may have the unique experience of seeing the "Midnight Sun". We are apt to forget that within our own country's confines this wonder may be seen. In the vicinity of Fairbanks the midsummer nights are darkless, and one is tempted to continue throughout the night, sight-seeing and in activities normally associated with only daytime hours. One can see by the thickly wooded mountains, the tall green grass, wild fruits, and the immense size of the flowers, such as pansies and nasturtiums, that the sun shines overtime and must spend many sleepless nights. One can also see how easy it would be for the citizens of Fairbanks to play their annual baseball game at midnight on the 21st of June. Here on the longest day of the year sunset and sunrise are almost simultaneous, and each occurs not in the east nor west but in the north. It is during the months of May and June that this midnight sun is at its best, dipping behind the horizon for only a few hours out of the twenty-four, and seeming to pause there, just out of sight, painting the sky in soft pastels, lighting the entire countryside in the diffused rays of its reflection.
Fairbanks is an intensely interesting city with a population of 2,500 people. It has all the marks of a frontier town, still it is a city with modern, comfortable homes, many private greenhouses, up-to-date stores, and fine schools. The University of Alaska, the northernmost institution of higher education in the world, is located here. The people seem even more air-minded than they are in the States, or "outside" as Alaskans say. It is also the center of a large and active gold-producing district. Although the summer weather is warm and delightful, in winter the temperature goes down to from 50 to 65 degrees below zero. The people prepare for low temperatures by dressing warmly and building comfortable houses, many of them with double windows and doors. Fires are kept constantly burning in barns and vegetable cellars.
On the evening of July 7, 1938, President Preston Nibley and I, together with seven others, met with a group of Latter-day Saints living in this far-off territory. Three days were spent in Fairbanks among charming, cultured people. Sunday, July 10, will always be a memorable day for Latter-day Saints in Fairbanks, Alaska. Gathered together at the home of Brother and Sister Erastus Peterson, a Sunday School was held with between 25 and 30 persons attending. After Sunday School Brother Lorin T. Oldroyd was set apart to preside over the activities of the Saints in the territory of Alaska, and a branch presidency for Fairbanks was organized. Dr. Murray Shields, head of the Department of Business Administration at the University of Alaska, was made president with Erastus Peterson first counselor and L. O. Tolman second counselor. The first Relief Society in Alaska was organized with Nettie May Baker Oldroyd as president, Cornelia Staker Peterson, first counselor, and Helen Broch Shields second counselor. Sister Alethia Tolman, baptized that afternoon, was chosen to act as secretary. With the exception of Sister Tolman these sisters have had years of experience in Relief Society and Mutual work, having held positions in both ward and stake organizations. These women are capable, well known and highly respected in the community and will accomplish much good. Our Relief Society sisters here are unusually fine cooks. Can you imagine sitting down to a meal in the "heart of Alaska" of fresh lake trout, king salmon, caught in nearby streams, Alaskan grown potatoes, prepared Vienna style, creamed Alaskan grown peas, hot rolls, light as a feather, with sweet butter made at the Experimental Farm, spring salad of crisp lettuce, ripe tomatoes, cucumbers, green onions, garnished with green peppers and parsley—all grown in Fairbanks—jelly made from wild currants, and blue berries gathered from the mountains, perfect lemon pie and delicious strawberries grown on the campus of the University of Alaska, with rich thick cream separated on the Experimental farm? When one considers that bread is twenty-five cents a loaf, lettuce thirty-five cents a head, milk twenty-five cents a quart and other commodities just as high, one doesn't wonder that much time and care is spent in wholesome home cooking.
The climax of the visit to Fairbanks, according to President Nibley, came with a public meeting held in the Masonic Temple Sunday night. Over one hundred and twenty visitors and investigators came to the meeting, among them President Bunnell of the Alaska University. Testimonies of the truth of the Gospel were borne to an attentive and sympathetic audience. Sister Bowen, formerly Margaret Anderson, well known as a soloist with the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir, sang three beautiful songs, which led the editor of the newspaper to comment the following day that she was the "finest singer that had ever visited Fairbanks." Our Saints and friends in this faraway land of friendly, delightful people, unaffected by too close contact with the more crowded centers of civilization, are very dear to us. We are thankful in our hearts that we have been privileged to visit with them and organize the first Branch of the Church and the first Relief Society in the Great Territory of Alaska.
The Needs of the Human Body for Heat and Energy By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe—University of Utah
There are six important phases of nutrition which will be considered in a series of articles as follows: the heat and energy value of foods; proteins; fats, starches and sugars; mineral salts; vitamins, and finally the balanced diet, as it involves all of the preceding divisions. As stated in a previous article, the three important general uses of food in the body are to supply heat and energy, to build body tissue and to control the various activities that go on in the body in order to maintain life.
Heat and Energy Value of Foods. The body requires heat in order to maintain a normal temperature of 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit. At this temperature the various processes of the body go on more efficiently. Any excess heat is eliminated from the body. In addition to the heat requirement necessary to maintain normal temperature of the body, energy or the power to do work is also needed. All of this heat and energy comes from the food one eats. The original source of food energy is the sun. As the plant grows, energy is bound up in it and remains there until the plant is eaten, digested, and burned. As the food is burned the energy and heat which were bound up in the plant are released for body use. Animals and human beings do not have the power to form foods, as the plants do, from the elements and inorganic material in the air, soil and water, but must eat the foods that have been formed by the growing plants.
Means of Measuring the Heat and Energy Value of Foods. The body is not restricted to the use of any one foodstuff for heat and energy. The starches, sugars, fats and proteins are all burned in the body and yield heat and energy. Certain foods yield much more heat and energy than others. In order to determine the relative fuel values of the various foods it is necessary to have a common measure. This common measure is called the "calorie" and expresses the energy value in terms of heat units. One must realize, however, that the body is not a heat engine such as mechanical engines in which heat is the source of the work. In the body heat is rather the result of the internal and external work which the body does. The energy is the power by means of which the body does its work. It is difficult to understand the significance of a calorie, but we say it is the amount of heat required to raise four pounds (about four pints) of water one degree Fahrenheit. One thinks of the calorie only as a means of comparing the energy value of foods. As one is accustomed to measure quantities in ounces, pounds, inches, yards, pints, etc., so must one measure the heat and energy value of foods in calories.
The Needs of the Body for Heat and Energy. 1. The body needs heat in order to maintain the normal body temperature. The infant requires heat to keep its body warm. Warm, lightweight clothing is used to keep in the body heat. A limited amount of food will furnish all the heat and energy needed. As the child grows older and becomes more active, he will require more food to meet his needs. Adults do not need additional food to maintain normal temperature because an active person is really producing more heat than the body needs and feels uncomfortably warm until the blood cools off. This "cooling off" is made possible by the evaporation of the moisture, or perspiration, on the surface of the body. 2. The body needs energy for work. There are two general types of work, internal and external. The internal work is going on constantly as long as life lasts. The heart is beating; the lungs are breathing; the muscles of the stomach and intestinal walls are expanding and contracting; the liver, kidneys and many secreting glands are constantly performing their important functions. One of the greatest needs for energy is in maintaining the muscles in a state of tone so that they are always ready to do work. One is not conscious of this vast amount of work that is going on all the time in our bodies. A large amount of food is required just to meet the needs of the internal work. The external work, or the work done by the body of which one is conscious, requires by far the greatest amount of energy. Every movement of the body, sitting or standing, walking around, working with one's hands, etc., requires energy in addition to that required for the internal body work. The amount of energy needed depends upon the kind and amount of external work done. Sitting down sewing requires a certain amount of energy, while the same person doing heavy housework requires much more. This means that the greater the amount of work done and the harder the work the greater the amount of food that must be eaten to supply the required energy. 3. Energy is also needed for growth and repair. The adult needs food for use in keeping the body in a state of repair. The body cells are constantly wearing out and being replaced with new ones. A small additional amount of energy is required for this purpose. Growing children need energy not only to repair worn-out cells but to build new cells for growth. Rapidly growing children may be storing, in growth, as much as 12 to 15 per cent of the energy value of the food eaten. The pregnant woman requires a very small additional amount of energy for building new tissue, but this need is generally overestimated. It is more necessary that a pregnant woman look well to the kind of food she eats rather than to increase the amount. The diet of a woman in this condition should consist largely of milk, eggs, fruit, whole cereals, vegetables and meat sparingly. Such foods will furnish the vitamins and minerals that are necessary. The calories will usually be sufficient. Too often pregnant women put on excessive weight. The lactating mother will need additional calories, equal in amount to the milk she secretes, as well as the energy required to secrete it.
Sources of Food Energy. All food except water and the mineral salts yield energy when burned in the body. Different foods yield different amounts. The food groups yielding energy are classified as carbohydrates, fats and proteins. 1. Carbohydrates as a Source of Heat and Energy. The carbohydrates are the chief source of energy. This group comprises all of the sugars and starches. The sugars and starches are built up by the growing plants. Many of the sugars, called simple sugars, are ready for the blood stream and are not acted upon by the digestive juices. Such sugars occur generally throughout the vegetable kingdom. The sugar that we use on our tables is manufactured from the juice of beets or sugar cane. Brown sugar is the same as white sugar except that a small amount of the "mother liquor" is still in it. In other words some of the water and coloring matter has been left in the sugar. It has not been purified and bleached. Sugars are readily soluble and are easily digested. When they are burned in the body they yield carbon dioxide, a very weak acid, which is eliminated by the body through the lungs, and water which is also eliminated by the kidneys and by the skin. So sugars are completely burned and in burning give up the energy that was enclosed in them when they were formed by the growing plant. In a similar manner starches are formed by the growing plants. Starches differ from simple sugars in that they are insoluble in water and must be acted upon by the digestive juices and changed to simple sugars, glucose, before they can be burned in the body. So all sugars, except the simple sugars, and all starches must be changed by the digestive juices to simple sugar before they can be used by the body. Such foods are our best sources of energy because they burn without leaving any waste products. From one-half to two-thirds of our total food calories should come from sugars and starches. The best sources of carbohydrate foods are sugar and starch. White or brown sugar, honey, syrup, molasses, dried fruits, raisins, figs, dates, and all fresh fruits are carbohydrate foods. The best sources of starch are cereals, bread, crackers, cakes, cookies, macaroni and spaghetti, and all root and tuber vegetables, potatoes, Irish and sweet, beans, corn, carrots, peas, squash, etc. All of these foods are rich in calorie value. 2. Fats are derived from both the vegetable and animal foods. It is the chief form in which fuel is stored in the body. Fatty tissue is stored between and around the vital organs and in a layer under the skin. This fat is used for fuel if the diet does not furnish sufficient calories to meet the needs of the body. The most successful way of reducing one's weight is by reducing the caloric value of the diet, thus giving the body a chance to burn some of its fatty tissue. Fatty foods are much more concentrated than carbohydrates or proteins. When burned in the body, they yield two and one-half times more energy per given weight. The best sources of fatty foods are cream, butter, animal and vegetable oils such as olive oil, corn or Mazola oil, cotton seed oil or Wesson oil, lard, snowdrift and meat fats. 3. Proteins as a Source of Heat and Energy. Heat and energy are also produced when protein foods are burned in the body. Only one-half of the protein food burned is used to produce heat and energy, so we do not think of the protein foods as good sources of energy. For this reason we do not eat nearly as much of this type of food as we do of the carbohydrates and fats. There are, however, many important uses for protein foods in the body. The best sources of protein foods are cheese of all kinds, meats of all kinds, poultry, fish, eggs, milk, nuts, peas and beans.
The Effects of Undereating and Overeating. How can one tell whether he is eating too much or too little or just the right amount to meet the body's need for energy? If one eats more food than is needed by the body, one will put on weight. The opposite is true if one eats too little, the weight grows less. Neither condition is good. A growing child should gain weight consistently until he is fully grown. The weight should then remain constant over a long period of years if just the right amount of food is eaten. An insufficient amount of food to supply the body's need for energy may lead to underweight with its accompanying evils: nervousness, irritability, loss of appetite, indigestion, listlessness and lowered vitality. An excess of food will result in overweight and may lead to general inefficiency, lack of ambition and inconvenience. It may also result in diseases of various kinds.
New Beginnings
Every morn is a new beginning, A fresh start in the battle of life, A sweet invitation to conquer The ills of the storm and the strife.
Yesterday's errors are over and gone; Yesterday's heartaches, sorrows and pain Are healed by the balm of the quiet night And will never come back again.
Each new year, a door to the future, The key in the keeping of all, A room full of wonderful treasures Adorning its luminous wall.
The old year with its failures and losses Fades away like the mists of the sea, All its wrongs, its tears and unkindness Are lost in the swell of eternity.
—Grace M. Candland.
Morning Music of the Immortals By Marianne C. Sharp
Don't you come with me to a meeting of the Women's National Radio Committee? It is held in a small room high up in Steinway Hall on 57th Street in New York City. Seated in chairs around the room are women representing national organizations. Among them is a representative of our own Relief Society. The meeting is called to order by the chairman and from then on for about two hours all the discussions turn to the point, "How can women raise the level of radio?" We take up in turn children's programs, abandoned programs, music, commentators, proposed programs, etc. We learn with regret that one splendid program is to leave the air because its sponsors did not receive enough fan mail. An encouraging note, however, is struck when we hear that a famous symphony hour is to continue—primarily because it was voted the most popular in its field in the yearly poll conducted among women by the Women's National Radio Committee. Through it all runs the theme that we, the women of our country, have a great opportunity to raise the level of radio and that we are letting it go by. It seems true that the people who enjoy the best type of broadcasts are not the ones who write in commending a program, and thus a wrong picture is drawn for sponsors and radio stations alike. The women of our Church could exercise a great influence in remedying this condition. It is reported that a Utah man, high in radio circles, remarked the other day, "Utah doesn't want symphonies, it wants swing." Is this true?
It has been found that women listen to a radio as they go about doing their work in the morning. Their best hours are from eight to eleven, varying with individual circumstances. At least two local stations in New York City have taken advantage of this fact. One offers a "Master Work Hour" from nine to ten each morning. The other one has recently increased its hours of fine music. From eight to nine is a "Symphonic Hour," and from nine to ten is the "Composer's Hour" and each day a different composer is presented at which time a short synopsis of his life is given, followed by the playing of some of his compositions. We know that radio stations must make money, but we believe they will find their morning advertising more effective when good music is offered. Of this we are sure, but all our belief and desires will get us nowhere unless we make our desires known. The only way to change the present deplorable condition is for the women to write in and tell the stations that they really prefer a symphony to tunes that are here today and gone tomorrow. Ask also that when a sustaining program is broadcast it be one of a high type. As a Church we seek after every goodly thing. Certainly fine music is one of these. Shall we do our part that our souls, as well as our ears, may be stirred by music of the immortals? Let us all write our local stations and tell them in no uncertain terms that we women do want—Morning Music of the Immortals.
Women We Should Know
Florence Jepperson Madsen—Doctor of Music By Ramona W. Cannon
Florence Jepperson Madsen has played and sung almost since she could speak. She remembers when she used to stand by the family organ, treading with one foot and reaching above her head to keys she could not see, to play the lead while she sang the alto of familiar songs. This spontaneous self-expression became even more interesting when admiring visitors began to leave her quarters and fifty-cent pieces for the entertainment. At five the little girl was making regular public appearances. Her first truly professional performance occurred at the age of eight. She and two brothers played the organ, violin, and bass all afternoon for a children's dance at a private residence. They proudly marched home with their recompense—a pound of butter—value twenty cents.
The Jepperson family would make a most interesting study in heredity. The father and mother had extraordinary musical talent. It must have been a dominant characteristic in both because all six children inherited it, the grandchildren likewise. The father was a landscape painter as well—was in fact known as Utah's pioneer artist. Several of the children inherited this versatility. Florence herself has about forty good paintings to her credit, which she has done in periods of recreation. In both parents love of music equalled the talents they possessed. The mother, Minnie Johnson Jepperson, was known as Provo's contralto singer. She had no training but a voice which retained its exquisite, melting quality into advanced age. The father, Samuel H. Jepperson, crossed the plains at three years of age, and lived at a period when conditions forever demanded the practical—breadwinning, shelter, manual labor. But he hungered for a violin. At last came his opportunity. In exchange for several loads of logs he could have a violin. So at thirteen he went, alone and barefoot, into the canyon. He had to manage the team, make his way through the prickly, tangled thickets which scratched his bare flesh, cut and load the logs without help, keep an alert eye and ear for the snakes which infested the region, and spend lonely nights praying for protection from the ferocity of Indians and wild beasts. He obtained the coveted instrument and learned to play it and also the clarinet. He made musical instruments, taught music, organized bands and orchestras throughout the state, and developed an orchestra among his own family. As they sent their sweet harmonies into the outer air, crowds assembled around the house to listen. This orchestra could play the organ, trombone, bass tuba, clarinet, oboe, violin, guitar, and string bass. Without wealth the family yet lived a life rich in beauty, accomplishment, and associations with great and talented spirits. Mr. Taggart, the New York artist who painted portraits of the Twelve Apostles, was a close friend and did portraits of Mr. and Mrs. Jepperson as a token of esteem. Dr. Winship, the educator, was another friend. By means of cooperation and sacrifice all the children received musical educations. The encouragement of the art and poetry of life meant more to the family than the acquiring of food, clothing and household furniture. "Father desired things for us," says Florence, "but Mother saw that they happened."
Florence for two years before entering Brigham Young University assisted Professor J. R. Boshard in his duties as music supervisor in the Provo schools. After receiving a diploma from the Provo college, she went to the New England Conservatory of Music where, after supporting herself entirely through her student days, she was graduated with high honors. She remained in Boston for thirteen years. From the time of her arrival there, she was a church, concert, and oratorio singer, and for eight years she was head of the vocal department in Lasell Seminary, one of the choice girls' colleges of America. She provided a brother's four years' eastern training in art and music, and two years' musical training for her sister. Besides this she helped many Utahns; she was in fact commonly referred to as the fairy godmother of the Utah students. Unexpectedly a strange incident occurred in her life. An intimate friend, a convert to the Church, who had studied with her in the Conservatory was left a widow with three young children and her health poor. With forebodings in her heart, she asked Florence to promise to take her three children and rear them in case of her own death. Florence attempted to reassure her, but she was insistent and Florence gave the promise.
Soon afterwards Florence came back to Utah to become professor and head of the music department of the Brigham Young University. Dr. Chadwick, President of the Conservatory, had urged her to remain in Boston where she was making a great success; he predicted a brilliant future for her. But her heart longed for her own people, and she felt an urge to give the best of her high attainments to Utahns and her Church. Two years later, in March, she received a telegram that her friend had died, expressing the wish that Florence take her children. She obtained leave and arrived to sing at her friend's funeral. Remaining away from her college work for three months, she obtained custody of the children, for whom no financial provision had been made. This occurred in June, and in August she married Franklin Madsen, also a member of the music department of the Brigham Young University, a teacher of the theoretical subjects and an unusually capable music conductor. Under these conditions, Florence did not expect to advance further in her own career. But her husband recognizing her great talents insisted that she go on. With his help and cooperation she has since marriage taken the following degrees: B. A. from the Brigham Young University; Bachelor of Music, Master of Music, Doctor of Music and Doctor of Music Education from Chicago and Boston institutions. These are rare degrees infrequently attained.
During the 1929 and 1930 seasons Mrs. Madsen conducted the music of the famous California Mission Play. The night of its three thousandth performance Madame Schumann-Heink was guest soloist. Calvin Coolidge was present and congratulated Mrs. Madsen, referring to the evening as the occasion he would longest remember of his Western trip. One summer she conducted four musical plays by J. S. McGroarty, author of the Mission Play. These were presented in a tent stretched over nine live oak trees with a seating capacity of twenty-five hundred. The lighting and scenic effects were most beautiful. Mrs. Madsen arranged or rearranged most of the music and composed some of it, notably the "Indian Love Lament," for which her sister Marguerite had written the words. Two years ago the Madsens drove to Boston to hear the Lament sung by a ladies' chorus of 165, accompanied by the full Boston Symphony orchestra. Florence, upon being discovered there, was enthusiastically applauded.
Last year the Madsens were loaned by the Brigham Young University to the Church Music Committee to launch its very laudable music project in the five stakes of southern California. They loved this experience, and it met with enthusiastic response. Both the Madsens are members of the faculty of the National Summer School Conference on School Music Materials for supervisors and teachers of music, where they give two weeks of intensive training during the summer. Mrs. Madsen organized the first oratorio society in the state during war time and turned the proceeds over to the soldiers. She is mentioned in the "Who's Who in Women of America." She is very successful with composition work, and has published six ladies' choruses and two anthems for mixed voices. One of these is Brother George H. Brimhall's, "Oh, May I Know the Lord As Friend." Another soon to appear has used as its text words from the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Sometimes in our zeal for duty in regard to the Gospel we forget its beauty. Florence Madsen preaches religion through beauty, bringing people closer to an understanding of the "measureless riches of the Gospel of Christ." Through music our hearts are softened and our spirits uplifted and opened to the outflowing goodness of God. Artists like Mrs. Madsen are rare. They must have first the natural gift, then tenacity of purpose, an inexhaustible capacity for work, intellectual, emotional and spiritual depth and understanding. When we have them in our midst, let us honor them.
"'Tis fine to travel broadly, To sip earth's nectar clear; 'Tis fine to meet in friendship Those whom we hold most dear; Then life is full of sunshine, Hearts revel in love's call; But joy of service rendered Is the best gift of all."
—H. Asa Fowler.
Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
Chapter Ten
The Doctor went into Tim's room just ahead of me. I dropped to my knees by the bed and laid my face against the one on the pillow.
"Tim. Tim. Oh, thank goodness you were not killed!"
He put his one good arm about me. The other was in bandages.
"Don't worry," the Doctor's calm, level voice kept me from bursting into sobs. "He'll be out in a week."
"I should have taken the wheel," Tim explained. "I knew when we left Arliss that Don had been drinking and that we had a bad stretch of road. I did suggest it, but he would not listen. Was he hurt?"
"Some," the Doctor answered. "But he will be out in three or four days. It always happens that way. We just brought the girl from the operating room. I promised to let you know how she was."
"Salle!" I cried, springing to my feet. "I must go to her at once."
"She is still under the anesthetic. Her mother is with her. You had better wait until tomorrow. We will know then whether she is going to live."
He went out. Tim groaned, and I clung to him in terror. Salle, so full of life and ambition!
"If she dies I shall always consider myself responsible," Tim muttered from between set lips. "I was the oldest and should have knocked out that worthless pup if necessary. It was a needless accident."
Another thought occurred to me, and I clung to his good arm. "Tim, if anything had happened to you I would not have known where you were."
"I thought of all that while I lay under that car waiting for help. I decided if I got out alive several things would be different. One is—no more secrets."
"I should not have been suspicious, Tim. It was all my fault. And I shouldn't have let my work come between us. I will give it up tomorrow."
"Not on your life. But your work did have something to do with it. I was mighty proud when you were put in president, but I knew some expense would be involved; you would need some one to look after the children more often, and there might be other expenses that couldn't be helped."
"So you thought you would take on extra work and not let me know."
"I thought if you knew you would object. I know now I should have told you what I was doing. To trust is all right, but sometimes our sense of trust is strained too far. Subterfuge always breeds occasions for doubt."
"And I couldn't understand why you wouldn't go places—when you were so tired."
"Some of that was plain laziness. I'd rather stay home. Then I was asked to put another's affairs in shape."
"Diane's?"
He looked at me sharply. "You know about her?"
I nodded. "She died tonight."
He started to rise but fell back with a groan. His face went gray, not alone with pain. Later he said:
"She was a grand kid but headstrong; like her father, Mrs. Grow said. She had some land she wanted to dispose of, so we planned on putting Holman and Peters out there. They both like to farm, and Bishop thought it would be the best."
"He knew what you were doing?"
"Yes. We were working it out together. But never again will I go away without telling you."
I clung to him in silent thankfulness. He was my own, my Tim after all.
A few days later I called to see Don. Mrs. Grow sat beside her boy. On one side of his bed was Nedra Williams. She held one of his hands in both hers, and her face fairly shone with the joy of love and conquest. Don, too, looked at me, but he was self-conscious.
"Mrs. Maylord," he began, "Ned and I—"
"Don't bother to explain," I told them. "It is written all over your faces and I am so happy for you."
I meant the last more than they would guess.
"Do you think—that Salle will mind?"
"Not nearly as much as if she had married you and then found you loved Nedra."
After spending a few moments with Don I left. Mrs. Grow went down the long hall with me.
"I am glad," she said quietly, "that he has gone back to Nedra. He would not have been happy with Salle nor she with him. Nedra is his kind and will make him a grand wife. But I love Salle so much."
"Will you go in with me to see her?"
"Not now. Losing her and Diane at the same time has been hard. I shall be a lonely woman. I shall see her in another day or two. Just now I will go to see Mr. Holman. Peters left the hospital yesterday."
"I am glad they weren't hurt badly."
Her face blanched, and I wished I could recall the words. Quickly I said, "After all, the accident has been a good thing all around. It has straightened out several tangles. Don probably won't drink again—and it brought him and Nedra together. You will soon love her. Come to our meetings. It will give you an interest in something."
She looked at me a moment and then said quietly, "I believe I will. If I can get a fraction of the satisfaction from it that you get, it will be worth while."
Rejoicing in the way things were clearing up I went into Salle's room. I found her in tears.
"Why, Salle, what is it?"
"Nothing," between sobs.
"You must not excite yourself. Doctor says you are going to be all right. It is only a matter of time."
"I—I know it."
"Then why cry?"
"Nedra Williams was in here a while ago—"
I brought her up sharply. "Don't tell me, Salle Richards, that you are crying over Don. Were you in love with him after all?"
There was such dismay and incredulity in my voice she started to laugh, a half-crying, hysterical laugh.
"Would it have been that terrible? Of course I wasn't. But it is—I don't know what is the matter with me. I am always doing the wrong thing. And his mother hasn't been in to see me. I thought she liked me. She did send me some flowers—so did the Mutual officers."
"Didn't you know?"
"Know what?" she asked quickly.
"She has been away. She was in to see you, but you were unconscious. She will come later."
"Where has she been?"
Salle's voice had gone deadly quiet.
"Taking Diane—home."
"Oh," that was all, but it told of a wound on the girl's heart that would be long in healing.
There came a sudden sharp knock, but before I could reach it, the door was flung open and Kent Evans stood before us. His glance went immediately to the girl on the bed.
"Salle," in two strides he was beside her. "Salle, Darling. I just heard. I have been away."
With a happy little cry Salle surrendered herself to him. I closed the door hastily.
Tim went home that day, and as I rode beside him I found my thoughts going back over the year's work. I thought of the Holmans, the Peters family, Salle, and the mystery that had surrounded the Grow home—that hadn't been a mystery after all. I thought of the way Gloria had sung "Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd" on my first official visit to her. "Are there any of us who are not wandering sheep?" I asked myself. But so dear are we to the Kind Shepherd that he leads us all into returning paths of security and service.
The End
Earthbound By Celia A. Van Cott
I love this world! I do not want to know When last I see the sunset mold the hill In aureole of gold, or the fluffy frill Of pearled clouds afloat in the crimson glow Of a dawning sky. I do not want to know Which day will be my last. I want to thrill With each new dawn, with birds enraptured trill, Or the beauty of the soft, white falling snow.
My spirit's strong with earthly beauty, God, So deep in love with greening field and sky, With seasons' interwoven harmony; My spirit's rooted in this human sod. It would be hard, O God, to say goodbye, To know the last of life's sweet melody!
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
Our perfect rainbow of today comes when the sweetness of our yesterdays blends with the hopes of our tomorrows.
Amanda Knight Hall is the name of the women's dormitory of the Brigham Young University at Provo, Utah. It is most appropriate that the benefactions of this estimable and cultured woman, Amanda McEwan Knight, should be thus recognized. Almost from the inception of the University to the time of her death Mrs. Knight was a liberal donor and patron to this excellent school of learning.
Edith N. Rodgers, Jennie Sumner, Mary T. Norton and Caroline O'Day are the only women representatives in the new Congress. Only 93 women in the whole United States came out for election to office in 1938.
Queen Maud of Norway, who died last November, was greatly loved and deeply mourned. She was the last survivor of the family of Edward VII and Alexandra of England.
Frances Rich, noted sculptress, forgot to put her name on her first monumental piece—a memorial to the Army and Navy nurses—unveiled in Arlington National Cemetery last November, but her mother, Irene Rich, screen and radio actress, took her daughter back to Washington by plane to cut her name in the stone.
Flora Clay, stewardess, played a heroine's role in a crash over the Pacific. After helping every one out of the fuselage she swam ashore but was swept back into the sea by a careening plane wing.
Lavell Christensen, 16, of Utah, was awarded a $200 scholarship at the 4-H congress at Chicago. Irene Brown of Illinois entered a young steer which she bought for $60. He was pronounced champion and sold for $3,785.50.
Alice Louise Reynolds, writer, educator and organizer, of Provo, Utah, died last month. Miss Reynolds was known nationally and internationally as an authority on English literature and for her fine judgment concerning books. She will be mourned by hundreds of friends.
Wilhelmina Rogers, 104, and Caroline Angerbauer, 93, of Utah, celebrated birthdays recently, while Mere Whaanga, 90, traveled 8,000 miles from New Zealand to spend her last days in salubrious Utah.
Pearl Buck has gone to Sweden to receive the award for literature—The Nobel Prize. She is the first American woman to have this honor.
Virginia Woolf's "Three Guineas," Sheila Kaye-Smith's "The Valiant Woman," Margaret Ayers Barnes' "Wisdom's Gate" and "Thrice A Stranger" by Vera Brittain are among the glamorous books of this last year.
Interesting Verse
Among the interesting and talented women who have served the Relief Society organization the names of Lula Greene Richards, Emmeline B. Wells, and Cornelia H. Horne Clayton stand out with prominence. Blessed with unusual literary ability Sisters Richards and Wells served the organization as the first Editor and Assistant Editor respectively of the Woman's Exponent, which was founded in 1872, a quarter of a century after the pioneers landed in Salt Lake Valley. Sister Horne, gifted with business ability, served as its first business manager from December 1, 1875 to July 15, 1877, when she resigned to become the bride of James Leroy Clayton. Their association on the Exponent brought to these women a deep appreciation and sincere love for each other. At the wedding feast prepared for Miss Horne the following poem, written by Lula Richards, was read by Emmeline Wells. After the reading of the poem President John Taylor, who was one of the guests, pronounced it "the choicest of the many valuable and beautiful tributes offered on the sacred and joyful occasion." Sister Richards is the only one of the three still living. Her physical and mental vigor are unusual. Ninety years of age next April she still serves the Relief Society organization.
"Corneel" By Lula Greene Richards (November 29, 1875)
Corneel, Dear Girl: This is thy day of days! From maidenhood's fair path you step Aside. Henceforth in woman's higher, mightier ways Thy walk in life must be—thou art a bride.
In bringing wishes tender, true and kind, As sounds to such scenes should ever ring, No superfluities, however refined, I'd offer, nor one vain, unlikely thing.
It is not vain to wish that fruits and flowers May crown thy lot instead of thorns and weeds; That which we plant and cultivate is ours, Else life were vain, and all good thoughts and deeds.
May faith's bright star illumine all thy path, Love's sweetest blossoms 'round thy heart entwine; And all the wealth which truth and virtue hath For their firm votaries be forever thine.
May he to whom thou givest all in trust, Who fondly, proudly claims thee as his own Prove only nobler, purer and more just Than thy warm hopes or brightest dreams have shown.
Many might deem this wish not worth the while, For 'tis proverbial man never proves As free from folly, selfishness and guile As is believed by woman when she loves. I will admit that cases may be rare In which man falls not short, yet one I've known— But Ill not tell it here, 'twould seem unfair To talk of love today except thine own. God bless thee! This time-honored, sacred phrase Can best express the interest which I feel For ue on this, thy brightest day of ays— God keep thee ever blest, beloved Cormeel. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Fatleth LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN - KATE M. BARKER  JULIA A. F. LUND - Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Ida P. Beal Amy Whipple Evans Belle S. Spafford Rosannah C. Irvine Editor Manager Assistant Manager THE GENERAL BOARD Nettie D. Bradford Marcia K. Howells Emeline Nebeker Janet M. Thompson RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE President First Counselor: - - Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jengen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow Belle S. Spafford Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vol. XXVI JANUARY, 1939 No. 1 EDITORIAL——Confidence THE year 1938 is ended. All that it gave of joy and sorrow, of satisfaction and remorse is now relegated to the past. With the new year comes a feeling of new beginnings, of a fresh start in the battle of life. Hope, which "swells eternal in the human breast," bids the new year to be a better year than yesteryear, and reason says to each of us, "This year you are older and wiser, the experiences of the past qualify you to meet whatever the new year may eons than you have met any year heretofore." But in reality many of us face the future with anxiety. We lie awake nights dreading possible calamities of the morrow. Not knowing what the future holds for us we stand before it afraid. — The pace of civilization today is swift. Progress, involving change, seems to keynote man's existence and brings a thousand disturbances that gnaw at patience, upset poise, and work one into a state of nervous uncertainty. Life today calls for such power of adjustment that it leaves many of us feeling innately inadequate to cope with it successfully. If the New Year could give to every Relief Society woman one gift I would say let it be the gift of confidence, that feeling of adequacy to meet whatever the future may hold. Let her recapture the confidence of her youth. Youth has its sorrows, its obstacles to overcome, its adjustments to make, but its thoughts and ideas have not fallen into ruts; it has not been intimidated by life. Facing the future with confidence actually rendcrs one more capable of utilizing the ability which he actually possesses to the greatest advantage. It leads to well directed action and, unafraid to dedicate one's life to the purposes which challenge, personal development is increased. Confidence is something which we may give to one another. It is one of the most contagious things in the world. A confident person readily transmits to his associates the same attitude. One individual sincerely believing in another is like a stimulating tonic, increasing that person's belief in himself and thus enlarging his power to do. Confidence is nourished by success, and as success breeds confidence so confidence in turn breeds success. In approaching the future the average adult needs to view life from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY – 4 the vantage point established for us by the Gospel. We need to take a long-range view, seeing its place in the eternal program. We need to get a fresh vision of what we ourselves could do if we would do all that we can do. We need to live every day courageously and "let virtue garnish our thoughts unceasingly; then shall our confidence wax strong." (Doc. & Cov. 121:45.) Though 1939 may bring cloudy and misty days alternating with clear and sunny ones let us go forward and partake of whatever the New Year has to offer, unafraid. CUcknowledgment ONE of the delightful customs coming down through the years is the expressions of good will from one to another. This is always associated with Christmas and the New Year. It is a tangible evidence of the spirit of the time. The Presidency and General Board have received many such beautiful messages andare deeply grateful. 'They reciprocate fully the love and good will of every 'sister and of the organizations. They answer every kind thought with a prayer for success and peace to be with all. Raffles-- Games of Chance-- Gambling From the December issue of the circular "Progress of the Church," published by the Presiding Bishopric we quote the following: "The rapid increase of practicall all forms of gambling, makes it advisable to again call the attention of stake and ward Church leaders to the evils of this practice. "Any game, device, plan or scheme which has as its object the inducement to try to get something for nothing, or to win a reward at the expense of others, is definitely objectionable and should be discouraged. "Members of wards should be urged to refrain from engaging in such activities under whatever guise. The instructions given by Church authorities in the past regarding the use of any such dative or plan in Church socials or gatherings are again called to the attention of stake and ward leaders. The use of such devices or schemes is definitely out of place in Church gatherings and should not be permitted." We appreciate the clarity with which the Presiding Bishopric have expressed the stand of the Church in regard to these practices and urge all Relief Society organizations to observe the above instructions. Items— OF INTEREST Poem Contest IN this number of the pe Society Magazine appear the poems ee those awarded the first three places in the annual poem contest conducted by the General Board. There were 124 poems entered in this year's contest and the committee feel to congratulate the many contributors on the general excellence of their contributions, with the hope that they will continue to write and send in their manuscripts. While it is a fact that all cannot win, this need not deter one from making the effort, and continued work leads at least towards the goal of success. This year the first prize was awarded to Helen Hinckley Jones of Beaver, Utah, for her elegiac poem, "Cycle". Second prize was awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard of Ogden, Utah, for her lovely poem, "Always At Night," and Third prize to Grace Zenor Pratt of Colonia Dublan, Mexico, for her _heart-touching verses, ""Today I Gathered Roses". The judges this year were Professor Harold F. Folland of the English Department, University of Utah, Maud Beeley Jacob, writer and literary critic, and Marcia K. Howells of the General Board of Relief Society. Weare most grateful to the judges for their patient consideration and professional judgment. We thank all who contributed in any way. To the success of the contest, and the successful authors have the sincere congratulations of the committee. Annie Wells Cannon, Julia A. F. Lund, Rosannah C. Irvine, Ida P. Beal, Rae B. Barker. New Features of the Magazine for 1939 IN line with the policy of the Relief Society to publish a superior Magazine a number of new features are inaugurated with the January issue. We are the first magazine to our knowledge to use new Green-White paper called "Nature's Tint." This special paper eliminates glares, saves the eyes and makes reading easier. In view of the fact that the Magazine is used many times during the month in lesson work and visiting teaching, and not always under the most favorable lighting conditions, we feel this special "'eye-ease" paper will be greatly appreciated by our subscribers. Weare also using a new "Electra" type face, which is more legible and modern than the type we have used previously. We are informed that we are using the only font of this particular type in the Intermountain territory. The January issue also inaugurates a new cover design which we believe will add to the general attractiveness of the Magazine. The general lay-out of the Maga- zine is being improved by the use of distinctive title heads and department names, and we are expecting to increase the number of illustrations. The content of the Magazine will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 43 receive the same careful attention which has always characterized its selection. This, together with the improved physical make-up, should give to our subscribers a magazine of quality. Oh OS Angeles A DRAMATIC feature of the Los Angeles Stake Relief Society Conference on November 5 and 6 was the announcement that the stake had reached the final goal set for it in the Membership Campaign. It had increased its membership 33!4% and had thus achieved "keystone success" in one season. The membership of the stake in 1937 was 540. The quota set was 200 new members by 1942. The Campaign was inaugurated in the wards September 6, and by November 5, 6, 235 new members had been enrolled, making the present membership 775. The announcement of the final results was made in a large special Relief Society meeting, attended by the stake presidency and a number of invited guests. The meeting was semi-social in nature, with a program of beautiful musical numbers and short speeches. At the close of the meeting delicious refreshments were served. The President, Sister Blanche Stake Scores Hoglund, paid a sincere tribute to the efficient and energetic stake coordinator, Sister Bessie Redding, who had planned and led the Campaign, and her able assistants, the ward coordinators, for their arduous work and signal success. At a proper moment each of the coordinators was called to the platform and presented with a corsage of gardenias. The plans for the Membership Campaign were presented, thoroughly discussed and copies distributed in the membership department of the Union meeting held in August. On September 6 they were introduced in the ward meetings. Definite tules were adopted and uniformly carried out. Prospective members were made thoroughly familiar with the privileges and responsibilities of membership and were not enrolled until they had attended three regular meetings. The new members are all enthusiastically interested in the work of the organization. 1938 Index The 1938 index is now ready. Those desiring their magazines bound through this office may have cloth binding, including index, for $1.50, and leather binding, including index, for $2.00. The price of the index is: single copy mailed, 100; 3 copies mailed, 25c; when bought at office 5c per copy. 44 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE New Serial HE February issue of the Magazine brings to our readers a new serial, The Shining Heart, by Sibyl Spande Bowen. Read about old Philander Maddox, rich, eccentric, naive. Become acquainted with Brilliant Alaska Carey whose absorbing life interest is the charming and gifted Nell. Follow the actions of Robert Lathrop, resented by Nell, "For one thing," she said, 'because a man has no business wearing ties as beautiful as those worm by Mr. Lathrop." Enjoy the homely life-philosophy of practical and unromantic Fred; benefit by acquaintance with sophisticated Miss Donavan. The Shining Heart is a story of real-life people whose ambitions and frustrations, selfishness and generosities, dislikes and loves, lead the reader with absorbing interest through a story carrying a delightful element of mystery, centered in a Chinese chest and a shining heart. Sibyl Spande Bowen needs no introduction to our readers, having been a contributor to local magazines for the past 15 years. Her work in the field of fiction is of unusual merit, recently receiving national recognition. HH Magazine Drive "THE Magazine Honor Roll published in the December issue omitted the American Fork First Ward, Alpine Stake. This ward has an enrollment of 82, with 62 subscriptions, giving them a percentage of 76. The Rapid City, South Dakota Branch and the Grand Island, Nebraska Branch should have been listed Western States Mission instead of North Central States Mission. The Lebanon Ward should have been listed Mt. Graham Stake instead of St. Joseph Stake. The Manavu Ward, Utah Stake has an enrollment of 104, with 108 subscriptions, giving them a percentage of 104, instead of 104 enrolled, 84 subscriptions, giving them a percentage of 81 as listed on the December Honor Roll. The Archer Ward of Rexburg Stake was given credit instead of Burton Ward which has an enrollment of 35, with 30 subscriptions, giving them a percentage of 86. Cate "The measure of our civilization is not good roads, or patks, or public buildings but the homes of our people."—Thomas Mann. “Come Join Our Ranks" By Leone G. Layton AS partakers of the spirit and A blessings of Relief Society membership we are all anxious to pass this privilege on to others. There is a real need in our communities for Relief Society and the opportunities for growth that it presents to its members. Those who are actively participating in its program, who have a vision of the organization as a whole, are proud to say, "I am a member of the Relief Society." ' We like to meet people who are sure of their values. As we value anything, so is our enthusiasm communicated to others. No salesman can convince us of the excellency of his product until he has first convinced himself. He may have a flowing sales talk, be letter-perfect in its delivery, but if a lack of conviction of the value of his product is sensed, one does not buy. Others are prone to accept the value we place upon our possessions. You may have a treasured keepsake that has no appeal for me, but as I sense the value you place upon it, I find myself unconsciously accepting it at its worth to you. We want to like what others like, whose opinions we regard. We hear someone say that a certain book has a wonderful message, that everyone who is up with the times is conversant with it; we read of a review to be given and drop our tasks to find the values in the highly rated book. Do we all understand and like it? No, but someone has said it was worth while. We all want to get out of life all the good that others find in it, so we follow those who are convinced that they have found values. Two women may give out exactly the same invitation to, "Join with us in our organization and receive its benefits" in exactly the same words, yet there is response to one and not the other. Why? One lives Relief Society. She is filled with the spirit of it; it has become Eng of her life; she sees not duty, ut privilege in all that it presents to her. The other?' The sister who does enlistment work feeling that it is impossible to get new members, who dutifully tenders each invitation but doesn't feel in her soul the real benefits which will come to the sister she is inviting, cannot be as successful as the one who senses Relief Society values in full and presents them enthusiastically. All humanity is seeking greater life satisfaction. All are searching for the things that will bring into their lives the greatest sense of accomplishment, the greatest happiness. Our organization can do this, Our Prophet said, "This charitable society is according to your natures. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." Do you know of any other organization which holds out such promise to its members? Only as we value our organization can we make it attractive to others. There is no substitute for enthusiastic conviction in enlistment work. If we are filled with the vision and spirit of Relief Society it will radiate from us. If through enthusiastic service we ate obtaining the blessings promised by the Prophet, then we can say, "Come, join our ranks," in such a manner as to make others desire that which we have received. Wlotes. FROM THE FIELD 4 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary VERY delightful and profitable beginning for the New A Year is to reflect for a moment upon some of the fine accomplishments of the past. We regret that we cannot publish all of the outstanding achievements of the Relief Society organizations during the past year. Eastern States Mission AN outstanding meeting held at Palmyra is reported by the President: "The Relief Society organizations "The roll call showcd a large attendance of Relief Society members, representing every Branch in the Mission. General President Louise Y. Robison addressed the audience. Her words were received with interest and enthusiasm and have stimulated fruitful works. As the sisters left for their homes many of them expressed a determination to attack their work with renewed zeal. They were truly filled with the spirit of their calling. All of the members were given the long-awaited privilege of greeting Sister Robison personally, SINGING MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS, EASTERN STATES MISSION of the Mission were given a special place on the Palmyra conference program. The period was devoted entirely to Relief Society work. This is in line with a policy to recognize each of the auxiliaries in these conferences. The experience of this session fully justifies the policy. And to each she gave encouragement in their several undertakings. All felt the influence of her gracious friendliness and her unaffected humility. "Nearly a hundred mothers and pelt sua joined in the choruses specially prepared during months of practice in the branches. It was regarded as a high privilege to hold this notable Relief Society meeting in the Sacred Grove, and the Singing Mothers and their daughters, attired in white, presented a beautiful picture on this holy ground." Mount Ogden Stake Music is recognized everywhere as one of the most potent of civilizing influences and certainl one of the most inspiring in its effect. Good music like any art is a treasure not for the chosen few but one that all may enjoy. Though one works with his hands in the shops or in the fields, his soul may reach the heights through music. An outstanding musical program was given in the Weber College RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 47 also helped the people to realize that the Mothers' Chorus in each ward plays an important part in the program of the Relief Society. Althea B. Zinn was the director; Fern Clark, the organist, and Lydia Burrows the reader.. Teton Stake NAANY stakes used vacation time for social activity in keeping alive the spirit of Relief Society. 'The Teton Stake Relief Society Board entertained all the ward executive officers, the stake presidency and a number of special guests at a dinner, after which a delightful program of appropriate numbers was rendered. Every one enjoyed the "get together" party where a spirit of unity, interest and love prevailed. SINGING MOTHERS, Auditorium by the Singing Mothers of Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society. The theme was the story of the life of the Savior, portrayed in music: His Birth, His Ministry on Earth, His Crucifixion, His Resurrection, and His Ascension into Heaven. The knowledge and inspiration gained by the chorus members has been taken into the wards and has helped to raise the standard of music in the ward organizations. It has MT. OGDEN STAKE Bannock Stake N this stake the lesson work has aroused great interest. This is especially true of the Theology and Visiting Teacher work, as well as the Home Reading project. A play, written by Sister Elsie Hubbard, portraying the spirit of the work, was successfully produced in the ward conferences held throughout the stake. 48 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Pocatello Stake "THE great enthusiasm that has been aroused far and wide by the Singing Mothers in the Relief Society is very gratifying. In addition to the other fine work which the Pocatello Stake ls doing the above picture tells its own story. Interest taining information and pamphlets from the Extension Division of the Agricultural College. The first lesson on nutrition was the Daily Food Supply. In conducting this lesson, fresh vegetables and fruits were used, and ribbons of various lengths and colors were SINGING MOTHERS, in membership, in the study program, and in all other activities is stimulated by the cultural opportunity offered women through the chorus work. Highland Stake SINCE the subject of nutrition is of such importance in keeping the body in perfect condition the Highland Stake welcomed the suggested study "Food Selection and Preparation" for discussion in the Work and Business department. With the earnest support of executive officers, both in the stake and wards, each month a simple discussion of nutrition has been presented, together with sewing, handicraft and quilting. Stake leaders obtained information from pamphlets suggested in - the July Magazine and were also very graciously assisted by Miss Elna Miller of the A. C. And Sister Ivy Hall, County Home Agent, in obtaining information and pamphlets from the Extension Division of the Agricultural College. The first lesson on nutrition was the Daily Food Supply. In conducting this lesson, fresh vegetables and fruits were used, and ribbons of various lengths and colors were POCATELLO STAKE attached to denote the content of the vitamins and minerals. The accompanying picture shows how this was illustrated with the use of a blackboard. Fruits and vegetables were attached to the blackboard, left to right, as follows: peas, string beans, onion, tomato, orange, parsley, carrot, potato, pepper, beet, cauliflower, cabbage, spinach, celery, and corn. The food elements and their values were listed as follows: Vitamin A—Yellow ribbon Vitamin C—Blue ribbon Calcium—White ribbon Iron—Red ribbon Phosphorus—Green ribbon Protein—Purple ribbon Calories—Brown ribbon A—Avoids colds B—Be not nervous C—Correct connective tissue D—Dental and bone E—Enlarges families F—Lost G—Growth. Calories are units of measurements for determining the amount of heat and energy obtained from food. Vitamins are substances in food which make it possible to properly nourish every part of the body. To inspire friendly interest and participation in the course a dramatization was presented. One of the older sisters was chosen as a bride to show that all ages might benefit by these lessons on nutrition. —— EDGEHILL WARD, At the begininng of the class the "Wedding March" was played; the bride entered, marched to the front of the room carrying an attractive bouquet of cauliflower, parsley, radishes, brussel sprouts and cranberries. She recited a clever jingle on food values, after which the audience sang the following original verses to the tune of "In Our Lovely Deseret". RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 49 THE VITAMIN SONG There are foods we like to eat That are mighty hard to beat They contain all vitamins from A to G. If you want to keep in step Eat the foods that give you pep, Serve the ones that have been planned For you and me. Chorus Come, come, come each second Tuesday, Bring another friend with you. We are sure, that you'll agree Vitamins from A to G Can be found in recipes both old and new. HIGHLAND STAKE A prize is being given to the sister contributing the best verse each month, which will be added to the song. The same program is being carried out in various ways in each ward in the stake. Each month a chart, "The Day's Food Supply," which lists the proper kinds and amounts of food necessary for an adequate day's supply, is kept before the members. IN LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Lesson 7 PETER THE FISHERMAN HELPFUL REFERENCES James E. Talmage — Jesus the Christ, pp. 218 f., 197-199, 691 f. A. B. Bruce—The Training of the Twelve. Consult index under the heading of Peter. Gustaf Dalman—Sacred Sites and Ways, pp. 121-183. (Macmillan Co., New York, 1935). This book contains a wealth of reliable and stimulating material on the topography of the Gospels. Will be of great value to close students of the New Testament. C. E. Macartney—Of Them He Chose Twelve, pp. 108-121. OUR Interest in the Apostle Peter. The Gospels and the Acts tell us more about Peter than about any other member of the Twelve. Our interest in him is very keen for that reason if no other. Enough is said about Peter to give us a reasonably clear picture of the man,—his strong points and weaknesses are admirably pictured in the New Testament writings. 'The sheer humanity of Peter makes a strong appeal to the average individual. He has a winsome personality that commands the love of all who read the accounts of his life and work. Latter-day Saints and Catholics probably hold him in higher esteem than do most other Christian peoples because of their special views on priesthood and Church organization. We asa people do not believe that Peter was overshadowed by Paul and John in ancient Church circles. To the contrary. Peter was the leader of the Church following Christ's death and highly respected as such. That this was so seems to be attested by the fact that the Gospels and Acts devote so much space to him as compared to the other apostles. We can quite understand the situation by reference to our own day. The President of the Church wields great influence wherever he goes. Consequently newspapers and magazines devote much space to him in their columns. Accounts of his travels and sermons are fully chronicled. The special attention paid by our Lord to Peter and the fact that the latter was promised the "keys of the kingdom of heaven" are also strong evidences in favor of his primacy in the ancient Church. The work of Peter in this dispensation is an added reason for our interest in him. SIMON PETER'S Early Life.— We do not know many details of Peter's early life, but fortunately research has disclosed to us much of interest respecting Galilee (the probable place of his birth) in New Testament times. The apostle was the son of a man by the name of Jona (Matt. 16:17) who may have been a fisherman by trade. It would be quite natural therefore for Jona's sons, Peter and Andrew, to follow in his footsteps. But even if Jona was not a fisherman it would have been easy for Peter and Andrew to pick up the trade from other men because Bethsaida, the little village in which they lived, was a fishing center on the northeast shore of the Sea of Galilee. Dr. Gustaf Dalman points out that Galilee was "eminently conducive to the development of a unique type of Jew." Josephus writes of the courage and pugnacity of the Galileans. The Galilee fishermen were a humble but hardy group of men, and it is significant that so many of the Master's Twelve came from their ranks. As a boy Peter probably learned Greek as a matter of course for it was frequently used and had a wide sphere of influence in Galilee. His native language was Aramaic, and a knowledge of Latin would come to him through his contact with the Romans. We have already pointed out in a previous lesson that Peter's brother, Andrew, had a genuine Greek name. Professor Dalman says, "It is very probable that the brother of Andrew, Simon, was not called in the family circle by the Hebrew form Shim'on, but by the Hellenised (Greek) form, Simon, a form which together with Shim'on, is also found in Jewish literature. Even his second name, Petros, in its Greek form, is not rare there." When entering into young manhood Peter and Andrew seem to have formed a partnership with each other in the fishing industry. Then as business grew Peter and his brother entered into a partnership with James and John, the sons of Zebedee, for the purpose of enlarging their opportunities and profit. Such it is reasonable for us to conjecture. Business seems to have been profitable for the Gospels indicate that they owned their boats and hired other fishermen to help them. (Mark 1:16-20; Luke 5:7, 10.) Peter and his immediate colleagues were therefore substantial business men in the community in which they lived.
The Life of a Fisherman.—The Sea of Galilee still contains many varieties of fish, and the fisherman still carries on his trade as of yore. The net still remains the favorite means with which to catch fish. There are two types of nets, the casting net and the drag net. Occasionally fishing was done by means of hooks attached to lines. This practice is reflected in the advice of the Master to Peter: "Go thou to the sea and cast a hook, and take up the fish that first cometh up and when thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalt find a piece of money." (Matt. 17:27)
After fishing it was necessary to wash the nets. (Luke 5:2) They were then spread out on poles near the shore to dry. It will be recalled that Peter was standing unclothed in his boat when he recognized the Risen Lord. (John 21:7) Little or no clothing was worn while fishing in order to be able at a moment's notice to dive into the water and free the net from rocks and debris as it was brought to shore. When Peter recognized his Master he drew on his short shirt in order that he might not appear before him unclothed. Dr. Dalman says, "It has been thought strange that Peter should don what was probably a wet garment. Sven Hedin, however, states that when sailing on the lake in July, with an air temperature of 87.7° Fahr. and the water 84.1°, he found it very pleasant to pour water over his clothes and let them dry in the wind." It is not at all unlikely that in Peter's day the art, not now used, of salting or drying fish was practised. This is deduced from the fact that the Greek name of the city of Magdala was Tarichaeae (preservation of fish by salting or drying). Magdala is said to have had a population of 40,000 people and 230 fishing boats. This city's position on important roads was of great consequence to the fishing trade. At times business visits were probably made to this place by members of the firm of Peter, Andrew, James, and John. The town had an unsavory reputation. Most of the fishing of these future apostles was probably in the waters of the Sea of Galilee between Bethsaida and Capernaum.
The Galilee District—The districts around the western, northern, and southern shores of the Sea of Galilee must have been very beautiful anciently according to the testimony of Josephus and others. Fruit-trees, palms, fig-trees, olives, walnut-trees, the vine, and citron abounded as well as forests in some districts. It is not as beautiful today. However, there are lovely spots to be found even now as the writer can attest. The winters are extremely mild and the hills and shores seem almost everywhere green. Even in February and March roses and other flowers can be plucked. The summers are very hot and one escapes to the hills and mountains for relief. Probably Peter and his companions occasionally did that. Plantations of oranges and bananas, groves of eucalyptus trees, numerous palms and cypresses, as well as date trees are now to be seen in certain districts around the Sea of Galilee. In time the Galilee district will probably be comparable to what it was anciently. The most important towns on the Sea of Galilee were Magdala, Tiberias, Chorazin, Capernaum, and Bethsaida. We have already said something about Magdala in connection with the fishing industry. Probably most of its inhabitants were non-Jews and entertained themselves in the Greek fashion. Josephus mentions the fact that a hippodrome was in the city. Magdala was the most important town on the western shore of Galilee until Herod Antipas built Tiberias. The town had a very bad reputation as we have already indicated. The more nationalistic type of Jew would generally avoid the town because of its high non-Jewish population. Capernaum had a greater Jewish population and was frequently visited by Peter and his colleagues and by their Lord and Master. (John 1:44, 2:12; Mark 1:16-31; Matt. 8:5, 14; Luke 4:31, 38). Some of these passages seem to indicate that Peter and some of his friends had moved from Bethsaida to Capernaum because of matrimonial circumstances. Bethsaida had a very mixed population. It was much frequented by foreigners, and Greek culture must have been prominent. These circumstances may partly account for the confidence certain Greeks had in Philip (John 12:20-22) who possibly was acquainted with them and their customs. The spiritual tone of Bethsaida must not have been high for the Christ pronounced a woe over it. The same must be said of Capernaum and Chorazin. (See Matt. 11:20-23; Luke 10:13-15) Perhaps we are justified in saying that most of the Galilee region was anything but spiritual and many centers of population were sinks of iniquity. Peter and the other future apostles were representative of a little group who might be termed the "salt of the earth" in their respective communities.
Peter Marries.—Peter probably married young as do most Orientals. The marriage would be arranged by his parents or a go-between according to the usual customs prevailing. (Cf. Gen. 24) The settlement would include a satisfactory dowry and the exchange of gifts. It is even possible that Peter never saw his bride until the day of his marriage. The actual wedding ceremony may have lasted several days depending upon the financial status of the families. The women gathered at the home of the bride and the men at the home of Peter. We unfortunately do not know the name of Peter's bride nor the family she came from. On the great day of the wedding the bride, who had waited in her own home until night, and the groom were brought together. "The hours of waiting for the coming of the groom seem to drag slowly along, and the women and girls who are waiting with her often drop off to sleep. Suddenly those who are watching see the lights of torches and lanterns in the distance, and the shrill wedding cry is raised, amid the shouts of 'There he is! The bridegroom is coming!' Then all is confusion and excitement the bridesmaids trim their lamps (Matt. 25:5-7), and go forth a short distance to meet the groom. The intimate friends enter the house of the bride, while the others wait outside. After a time the entire party returns to the house of the groom. Soon the bride and groom retire to another room; the friend of the groom, who has been one of those who helped to arrange the marriage, waits until the groom appears at the door to announce his satisfaction and happiness in his bride, and then his joy is full (John 3:29)." The above quotation for all practical purposes may be considered a description of Peter's marriage. Peter must have found it more convenient at a later time to live in Capernaum than at Bethsaida. Possibly his mother-in-law had lost her husband. At any rate the Gospels seem to disclose the fact that she was being taken care of in Peter's home at the time our Lord cured her of fever. (Mark 1:29-34; Matt. 8:14-17; Luke 4:38-41).
Questions and Problems (Deal only with as many as time permits)
1. Give all the reasons you can why we are interested in Peter.
2. In the case of Joseph Smith the Lord chose a young boy. In the case of the ancient apostles he seems to have chosen full grown men. Explain the difference as best you can.
3. A large foreign population lived in Galilee. What possible effects, good or bad, would this have upon the development of the ancient apostles?
4. Palestinian parents arranged the marriages of their children. What would you say are the good points and defects of this system?

Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 7
Cast The Beam From Thine Own Eye
"Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote that is in thy brother's eye."—Luke 6:37-42.
If a modern psychologist should give this same advice he would say that one must gain first an objective attitude of himself and then he will be sufficiently able to avoid his own shortcomings to help others. The objective attitude is the ability to stand off and look at oneself objectively; to note just what is wrong with oneself and what to expect. In doing so one becomes better able to solve his own personality problems. Actually each of us have limitations and capacities, an objective estimate of which is essential to the fullest development of character and personality. We have "beams" in our eyes, the presence of which we are sometimes quite unconscious. Our jealousies, prejudices, fears, angers, etc., bias our behavior and deter desirable personality development. We may not always be able to prevent these feelings from occurring, but we can develop the ability to weigh them objectively in order that we may estimate their true importance and deal with them constructively. No one need fear an accurate estimate of himself. Removing the "beam" from one's own eye makes social adjustment more efficient for both self and neighbor. The highest development of personality demands a responsibility to our fellowmen. Jesus does not deny that "motes" need to be cast out from our brother's eye, but He does insist that clear vision is essential to doing it well. He warns against adverse criticism which looks for the evil in people and seeing it tears the character to pieces. The tendency to see the "mote" in the eye of our brother, to criticise and even gossip about it, is all too common. Dr. Ernest M. Ligon, psychologist of Union College, says this is a method by which one endeavors to compensate for his own feelings of inferiority. He directs attention from his own "beams" to the "motes" of another. Jesus ably illustrates these truths in the parable of the unmerciful servant recorded in Matthew 18:21-33.
Discussion
1. Explain how seeing the "beam" in our own eye enables us to deal more justly with the "mote" in a brother's eye.
2. Explain why an objective view of oneself does not cause inferiority complex.
3. Explain the word gossip. What is its effect upon personality?
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs planned by the ward.

Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 7
Lorna Doone, a Story of Exmoor
Lorna Doone, by Richard Doddridge Blackmore, was written in 1869, at the peak of the Victorian period, but its author, describing scenes and activities of the seventeenth century during the reign of King James II of England, uses the style of that period. It is an important novel belonging to the list of classics of our language even though Blackmore is considered a minor novelist. Edwin L. Miller, writing in his book English Literature, says: "The book (Lorna Doone) in short, should be read by everybody." Miller says further: "Its plot is good; its style has the pleasing flavor of its age, that of James II; it is saturated with the joy of open air adventure; and John Ridd, its hero, is imperishable."
Miller is but one of many critics who have acclaimed Lorna Doone one of the best romances in the English language. It is a delightful tale, told in the first person, in a half-archaic style that is unusually pleasing. Blackmore throws around his characters an aura that makes them appear as beautiful etchings done in tempera on old parchment. John Ridd, the stalwart Exmoor youth, early in the story takes his place in the center of the stage and scarcely leaves it until the last line has been devoured. John has almost superhuman strength, a delightful sense of humor, a naive way of saying things to make the reader feel that he is gently boasting in a most modest manner. Lorna Doone, on account of her beauty, which John constantly reveals to us—beauty of face and form and figure as well as of spirit—is one of the most loved heroines in fiction. Blackmore was astute when he entitled his book Lorna Doone rather than John Ridd, for by so doing he centered the interest upon the heroine whereas the hero is really the center of all action.
The story may appear to be a bit long to the casual reader. That weight of length has been brought upon us by the speed of our modern world. When the book was written there was plenty of time for long books because books were fewer in number and much more inaccessible than they are at the present time. The story is founded upon the legends of the Doones, a fierce band of robbers who once inhabited Exmoor. However, the romance is scarcely a historical novel in the sense that Sir Walter Scott's The Talisman is historical. The Doones may have actually lived, but the scenes in which they figure in the book are, in all probability, pure fiction. Long says of this tale of young love: "The story abounds in romantic scenes and incidents; its descriptions of natural scenery are unsurpassed, the rhythmic language is at times almost equal to poetry, and the whole tone of the book is wholesome and refreshing. Altogether it would be hard to find a more delightful romance in any language, and it well deserves the place it has won as one of the classics of our literature." It has been said that Lorna Doone "to a Devonshire man is as good as clotted cream". Helen Rex Keller in her "Reader's Digest of Books" says: "... It is Blackmore's special pride that as a native 'he has satisfied natives with their home scenery, people, life, and language'." She continues, "Even without so swift a succession of exciting incidents the unhackneyed style, abounding in fresh simile, with its poetic appreciation of 'the fairest county in England' combined with homely realism, would make it delightful reading. Much as Hardy acquaints us with Wessex, Blackmore impresses Exmoor upon us, with a comprehensive 'Englishness' of setting and character. It is out-of-door England, with swift streams, treacherous bogs, dangerous cliffs, and free winds across the moors."
Lorna Doone begins with John Ridd, a husky boy at school just beginning to show promise of the powerful man he was to become. Told in the first person, it soon establishes a feeling of verisimilitude which carries the reader into the reality of the story. Early in the book big John Ridd meets the charming little girl who is to become the heroine of the story. From that moment forward, even though he does not learn her name during their accidental meeting, the story is given direction and the pleasing outcome is inevitable, for no one of the temperament of John Ridd could very well become the hero of a tragedy. The second meeting between Lorna Doone and John Ridd is delightfully told. John goes fishing to capture loaches for his mother, and in following the stream he comes into the Doone country, a sort of fairy place at the head of a great waterfall, in the hidden valley formed by precipitous peaks. The charm of Blackmore's style is to be found throughout the narrative but scarcely in bolder relief than in the following passage which also suggests hidden meanings, suggestive qualities which abound in the books that really live. John is walking along through his lovely Exmoor when he is thrilled, as we all are at times, by a sudden inspiration of beauty, something akin to revelation more than to observation. "It is all very pretty to see the trees big with their hopes of another year, though dumb as yet on the subject, and the waters murmuring gaiety, and the banks spread out with comfort; but a boy takes none of this to heart, unless he be meant for a poet, and he would liefer have a good apple, or even a bad one, if he stole it."
John Ridd meanders along through his lovely countryside and finally climbs the roaring stream into Doone glen. There he falls and we find this bit of description of Lorna Doone: "When I came to myself again, my hands were full of young grass and mould, and a little girl kneeling at my side was rubbing my forehead tenderly, with a dock-leaf and a handkerchief. 'Oh, I am so glad,' she whispered, softly, as I opened my eyes and looked at her; 'now you will be better, won't you?' I had never heard so sweet a sound as came from between her bright red lips, while there she knelt and gazed at me; neither had I ever seen anything so beautiful as the large dark eyes intent upon me, full of pity and wonder. And then, my nature being slow, and perhaps, for that matter, heavy, I wandered with my hazy eyes down the black shower of her hair, as to my jaded gaze it seemed, and where it fell on the turf, among it (like an early star) was the first primrose of the season. And since that day, I think of her, through all the rough storms of my life, when I see an early primrose. Perhaps she liked my countenance, and indeed I know she did, because she said so afterwards; although at the time she was too young to know what made her take to me. Not that I had any beauty, or ever pretended to have any, only a solid, healthy face, which many girls have laughed at."
From that point forward, the story moves steadily on with the strength of big and brave John Ridd a comfort and shield to his own people as well as to the girl whose lot it was to live among the fierce Doones. The plot concerns itself chiefly with the rescuing of Lorna from the Doones and marrying her, but of course, in the telling, as a good novelist should, Blackmore weaves in many of the happenings in England at that particular time. Such procedure gives the story a genuineness that makes it sound like factual history. Some of the great descriptions in the book, as Keller points out, are John Ridd's rescuing of Lorna from Doone Glen, "the attempted murder in the church, the final duel with Carver Doone, and others,"—these, Keller says, "stand out as great and glowing pictures." Descriptions such as those mentioned present pictures of the hero and heroine in colors that will live, they are so full of quaint declarations which give the slant of the big fellow's mind. I shall cite one such scene: John is in the Doone valley bent upon rescuing Lorna, eager to be unseen and unheard when this bit of description follows: "And then I crossed, with more care, and to the door of Lorna's house, and made the sign, and listened, after taking my snow-shoes off. But no one came, as I expected, neither could I espy a light. And I seemed to hear a faint low sound, like the moaning of the snow-wind. Then I knocked again more loudly, with a knocking at my heart, and receiving no answer, set all my power at once against the door; in a few moments it flew inwards, and I glided along the passage with my feet still slippery. There in Lorna's room I saw, by the moonlight flowing in, a sight which drove me beyond my sense. Lorna was behind a chair, crouching in a corner. In the middle of the room lay Gwenny Carfax, stupid, yet with one hand clutching the ankle of a struggling man. Another man stood above my Lorna, trying to draw the chair away. In a moment I had him round the waist, and he went out of the window with a mighty crash of glass; luckily for him the window had no bars, like some of them. Then I took the other man by the neck; and he could not plead for mercy. I bore him out of the house as lightly as I would bear a baby, yet squeezing his throat a little more than I fain would do to an infant. By the bright moonlight I saw that I carried Marwood de Wichehalse. For his father's sake I spared him, and because he had been my school fellow; but with every muscle of my body strung with indignation, I cast him, like a skittle, from me into a snow drift, which closed over him. Then I looked for the other fellow, tossed through Lorna's window, and found him lying stunned and bleeding, neither able to groan yet. Charleworth Doone, if his gushing blood did not much mislead me."
That passage would, of course, be hard to accept had not Blackmore carefully built up a character for John Ridd that would make the conquering of two men seem easy and the throwing of them through windows and into snow-drifts ordinary, indeed. Scarcely in literature is to be found a sterner picture than that of the mighty Ridd meeting the mighty Carver Doone. Ridd is following the fleeing Carver. Being unarmed, the mighty John "rising from my horse's back although I had no stirrups, I caught a limb, and tore it (like a wheat-awn) from the socket. Men show the rent even now, with wonder; none with more wonder than myself."
The pursued Doone stops at the edge of the bog where John Ridd uses his oak limb to good effect. He strikes the Doone horse knocking him to the ground. Then we have a picture of a struggle that is classic: "I stretched forth my left hand, as I do to a weaker antagonist, and I let him have the hug of me. But in this I was too generous; having forgotten my pistol wound, and the cracking of one of my short lower ribs. Carver Doone caught me round the waist, with such a grip as never yet had been laid upon me. I heard my rib go, I grasped his arm, and tore the muscle out of it (as the string comes out of an orange); then I took him by the throat, which is not allowed in wrestling; but he had snatched at mine; and now was no time of dalliance. In vain he tugged and strained and writhed, dashed his bleeding fist into my face, and flung himself on me, with gnashing jaws. Beneath the iron of my strength—for God that day was with me—I had him helpless in two minutes, and his fiery eyes lolled out."
Those were strong and mighty men. Surely nowhere in fiction, even in the great stories of Richard the Lion-hearted, by Sir Walter Scott himself, is there to be found a stronger or braver hero. John Ridd, true to his simple character, closes his narrative with: "Of Lorna, of my lifelong darling, of my more and more loved wife I will not talk; for it is not seemly that a man should exalt his pride. Year by year, her beauty grows, with the growth of goodness, kindness, and true happiness—above all with love. For change, she makes a joke of this and plays with it, and laughs at it; and then, when my slow nature marvels, back she comes to the earnest thing. And if I wish to pay her out for something very dreadful—as may happen once or twice, when we become too gladsome—I bring her to forgotten sadness, and to me for cure of it, by the two words 'Lorna Doone'."
That is the last paragraph in this book of six hundred forty-six pages, each filled with beautiful descriptions, fine characterizations, splendid bits of smart conversation, and a delightful and ever-present humor. Big John Ridd is a quaint chap, powerful beyond measure, though, according to his own words, a bit slow in the head. The narrative, however, denies the latter.
Suggestions
1. Read The Advance of the English Novel, Chapter 5.
2. Become a little acquainted with the times of King Charles II, King James II, and Queen Anne. You may do this by reading in a history book or the encyclopedia.
3. List the principal characters in Lorna Doone and characterize each.
4. Outline very briefly the plot of the story.
5. Have passages of importance or interest in the book marked for reading. These should advance the plot, reveal character, or they should reveal the style of the author. A few examples: Ridd's fight at school—reveals his courage; his meeting with Lorna Doone—from chapter 8; from chapter 26—as revealing John's powers of repartee; from chapter 27—as revealing John's love; etc.
6. Find and read what you can of Blackmore.

Social Science
Lesson 7
MARITAL ADJUSTMENT
Modern Conditions Make Marital Adjustment a Difficult One. Of all the adjustments, whether educational, vocational, religious, or social, perhaps marriage is the most difficult. It is highly emotional, intimate and constant. No other relationship throws such a strain on one's capacity for good adjustment, and no other reveals so clearly weaknesses of personality and character. Modern conditions have tended to make marriage increasingly difficult. The youths of today find themselves forced to postpone marriage at a time when they find themselves physically capable of mating. Mental, educational and economic preparation for marriage is delayed years beyond sexual maturity. We have not stressed the value of early marriages so much in recent years, as we have become more eager for higher education for many of our youths. Missions are often added to the program of our young people, and marriage usually must be postponed until this entire program has been completed. After education and missions, our youths find great difficulty establishing themselves economically, more so perhaps than in former days when the children grew up to take a natural share in the lands and live stock. Many of the youths of earlier days were able to take over their share and support themselves and family by age twenty. Today we have become accustomed to a standard of living which is difficult to reach and maintain when the young people marry early and have large families. Many of our young people migrate to the cities where large family groups are likely to have more of a struggle to exist than was the case on the farm where children were somewhat of an economic asset and where much was produced in the home toward their maintenance. Moreover, in recent years, women have become more prominent in industry and public life; and perhaps with the broadening of their interests, they have had a tendency to look upon the home not so much as an exclusive career. Many of our young women have achieved ability in supporting themselves before entering marriage, and on that account they find certain difficulties in coming to feel financially dependent upon their husbands.
With the spread of birth control propaganda, sex has largely been separated from reproduction for many people. Marriage too often has become established solely upon a sexual foundation, a foundation upon which the winds and rains of passion and irresponsibility beat and soon cause a great fall of the marriage structure. Fortunately, the Latter-day Saint community has resisted many serious changes and we find the home and family still our strongest social organization. Certainly in the home lies the strength of the Church and the nation. We have not loosened our standards, and we still hold to a virtuous home as the highest goal young people may have. The question comes to our minds as to whether romance loses its flavor if we make too much of a study of it. This is a real possibility, although it need not be the case. To the average person, love is considered to be quite separate from good judgment. It is an instinctive reaction which asks for no reasons as to why it functions as it does. Many matings are based purely on romantic attraction with little consideration as to the hereditary background or intelligence of the loved one. Likewise, it is thought that information can be mixed with as little success as the image of clay and iron of which the scriptures speak. However, with the progress of education and the extending of scientific knowledge of sex and personality, we may rightly hope that attitudes based on information and intelligent understanding of sex and mating will gradually shape our aesthetic taste and finally come to have considerable control over our selection of mates and over our romantic lives in general. Some recent authorities on the psychology of sex have emphasized sexual compatibility as the basis of all successful marriages. Because the sexual side of marriage had so seldom entered into polite discussion, there was a trend of thought which swung to the other extreme of explaining everything in human conduct on a sexual basis. However, more conservative thought on the subject today is recognizing that, while sexual adjustments are important, marital happiness rests upon a much broader foundation. Indifference and boredom are the end results of a marriage that does not include intellectual comradeship, personality traits in the two persons which blend without too much friction (including all of the personal peculiarities of both parties), social life which is mutually satisfying, and some unfolding, creative aim in which both parties take part. Romance may be much broader than sex; it may include all of the cooperative adventures that make life interesting and worth living.
Personality Strain Calls for Constant Revision of Habits and Attitudes. Romantic love is "touchy", i.e., it may be destroyed by the many lingering irritations which may arise in the course of adjusting two lives to the task of living together. When we think of the unkindness we show in the home toward those who mean the most to us, there is little wonder that so many marriages are destroyed, either in spirit or in fact. We wouldn't think of insulting our neighbors as we do the members of our own family. Perhaps the reason for much of our bad behavior toward each other in the home is that we are able to set up our own rules of conduct there without much criticism from the outside, since the home is relatively private. In no other relationship are the flaws in our personality and character revealed so clearly as in marriage. Nowhere else are such exacting demands made upon us, and in no other relationship are we required to give and take so much. In our personal wishes, we must always take account of the welfare and wishes of others, and personal enjoyments must in many cases give way to those that suit others in the family. Personal associates who are obnoxious to the other party to the marriage must be dropped in preference for those who are acceptable to everyone. Of course, all of these adjustments cause the most severe strain on one's personality and are likely to reveal in a short time both parties' greatest weaknesses. Disagreeable dispositions appear first; if the strain is prolonged and severe, then appear weaknesses of character, such as dishonesty, infidelity, alcoholism, and desertion. That differences of opinion and conflicting habits and attitudes will appear should be expected, and even welcomed if they can be properly met. Happy couples usually establish some court between themselves to which they can take their difficulties and make good-humored and intelligent adjustments promptly before deep emotions are stirred up to blind their judgment. Among the most difficult kinds of adjustments required are those between the partners to the marriage and the relatives on both sides. This is particularly difficult when the couple are forced to live with either of the families. When people marry, they must exercise considerably more independence of judgment and action than was the case when they lived under the shelter of their parents' homes. Unless married people are thrown on their own resources, both financial and intellectual, they are likely to remain immature and to have greater difficulty making their own decisions and their own way when they finally must. Furthermore, troubles between the couple are usually made worse by those who listen to them. Romance often helps to solve difficulties, but those who are not parties to the romance are likely to carry feelings longer and keep stirred up unpleasant subjects which would otherwise be forgotten. However, it would probably be unwise for married people to attempt to sever all contacts with their previous homes, friends, interests, and hobbies. Contacts outside the home are probably necessary to give one a proper view of life and human understanding. Marriages may go sour simply because of the attempt of one party or the other to break off all contacts outside the home. For the most wholesome personality development, mingling with many people is important. Professor Lewis M. Terman, of Stanford University, published in 1935 the results of a study in which he administered a variety of personality tests to a large group of happily married people, divorced couples, and unhappily married couples. His results indicate some personality qualities which contribute to the disruption of marriage and others which seem to be the basis of happy marriages. He summarizes his results as follows: "Outstanding traits of the happily married, both husbands and wives, include emotional stability, social adaptability, uplift interests, and a tendency to conservatism, the men showing more tolerance and sympathy than the women. The unhappily give most evidence of neurotic and introvertive tendencies, intolerant attitudes, and volitional inadequacy." (Johnson W. B., and Terman, L. M. "Personality Characteristics of Happily Married and Unhappily Married, and Divorced Persons," page 311. For complete article, see Character and Personality, 1935, Vol. 3, pp. 290-311.)
Training for Marriage Begins in the Cradle. Most of the causes of difficulties in marital adjustment have their beginning in childhood. To train our children to be good husbands or wives we should begin in their infancy. Failure in marriage is most often explained by the development of inadequate social habits—respect for the rights and interests of others, tolerance, honesty, good humor, sociability, and a general high level of moral and religious life. These qualities are acquired in the course of growth, if the educational and social influences are right. Temper tantrums are planted in the cradle and often bear fruit in the divorce court. Any two people entering marriage bring into the bargain all of the effects of good or bad training from infancy up. Little defects of personality can often be corrected when they conflict with the personality of another in the intimate relations of marriage; but often the parties are either unwilling or unable to make corrections in their habits of dealing with people, which they have practiced all their lives. Chronic irritations of this kind frequently make marriage so disagreeable that, if separation is not resorted to, the lives of both parties are permanently blighted. The woman whose parents have given her every advantage is often defeated when she must meet the hard realities of keeping house and limiting her spending. The romance of marriage suddenly changes into a continual round of unpleasant duties, such as dish-washing, floor-mopping, mending, and budget keeping. However, if a sense of responsibility has been developed in the young girl as she grows up, it is much easier for her to lighten the load of these tasks by fitting them into the personal ideal of making an efficient and happy household. The husband, on the other hand, who as he has grown up has developed responsibility for meeting certain of his duties about the home and who has already learned something of earning his own way and caring for his own property will find marriage a much easier adjustment than the one who has had over-solicitous parents who have done all of his thinking and provided for all of his financial needs. One psychologist, G. W. Crane, has presented some evidence from census records to show that the order in which children come into the family has something to do with their chances of being divorced. He found that boys who were "only children" have a divorce hazard about five times as great as their number in the population would justify, and "only girls" about four times as great. Children who are born in the middle of the family, i.e., those with at least one older and one younger brother or sister, have the lowest divorce hazard. Children who have been ill more than average are likely to have personality difficulties which make happy marriage difficult. In fact, any of those circumstances which are likely to contribute to behavior difficulties in children are likely to affect the happiness of a marriage. Particularly straining on a marriage are those extremely strong parent-child fixations which prevent the young people from truly growing up and finding their rightful place in the adult world. HILDREN Are Often the Best Protection of a Happy Marriage. After the romantic period of a marriage has passed, the need becomes important for acquiring some unfolding, creative aim which can be shared by both husband and wife. Some couples take up hobbies, such as landscape gardening or art collections, which frequently aid in holding them together. Others: become mutually absorbed in making a living through a business enterprise. To Latter-day Saints, one of the best fields for mutual endeavor is in the Church program. Unquestionably a devout religious faith which is shared by both parties without serious disagreement as to details is one of the best safeguards against drifting apart. However, the most common and most satisfactory bond that can be made is the rearing of a family. There is no other undertaking in which the interests of a couple can be so mutually enjoyed. Home duties and making a living, both of which may have naturally distasteful elements, at once become lightened and directed toward a common goal when the first child comes. Better behavior toward each other becomes more necessary on the part of the parents, since the example they set begins to affect the lives of their children. Good conduct between the parents at home is then carried into the school and community through the good behavior of the children, and public opinion enters the family picture. There is no worse preparation for marriage than for one to have parents who have separated after failure to make the necessary adjustRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 63 ments themselves. Children who are moved from one parent to the other acquire conflicting ideals with resulting confusion and strain which reflect in difficulties in school, and which often lead them into the juvenile court as children, and into the divorce court as adults. PIRITUALITY in the Home Is One of Its Greatest Safeguards. Marriage is something much more to Latter-day Saints than an earthly contract for the satisfying of emotional needs. It bears deep signifcance as to our welfare in the hereafter. To bring children into the world and properly care for them is asked of us by the Lord. Our responsibility then becomes doubly serious. When we think of our relationships in marriage as being a preparation for greater opportunity to live happily together in the hereafter, we are impelled to redouble our efforts to make a success of our relationship on earth. Problems For Discussion 1. Show why marriages which are built on a purely romantic basis are likely to be unsatisfactory. Enumerate some other important factors in marital adjustment. 2. What would you say is the place of children in preserving marital happiness? How can differences over children disrupt a marriage? 3. Discuss how a common religious faith may contribute to the permanence of a marriage. 4. Show how marriage brings out all of the defects and virtues of personality and character. 5. When and how do we learn to be good husbands or wives? 6. Discuss the spiritual significance of marriage. Show how this should make marriage more permanent, 64 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE &ducation for Family Life FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Lesson 4 Growing Up Emotionally By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.) SUCCESSFUL family life depends so much upon the attainment of emotional maturity that it is worth while to devote an entire lesson to the subject. Some of the evidences of emotional maturity (e. G., attainment of selfknowledge, self-control, and unselfishness) were mentioned in Lesson No. 2. This lesson will deal more particularly with the development of the love-life. Using that term very broadly to refer to human relationships, it is evident that the love-life develops normally through a number of successive stages: I. The infant loves only himself. He is entirely self-centered, 100 per cent selfish. He is concerned solely with the satisfaction of his own needs and desires (not to say the gratification of his whims); he does not care how much he inconveniences anyone else, so long as he can have his own way. If he does not get his own way, he will have a tantrum and try to compel attention in that fashion. II. Shortly, however, the child broadens out his love-life to include his parents and in particular his mother (or her substitute). She occupies a relation to him that no one else holds. His love-life turns on an axis suspended between himself and her. She is very largely the object of worship and the source of authority. III. Soon the love-life expands again. It is important to note that this development is not a process of leaving something behind, as the caterpillar leaves the cocoon behind to emerge as a butterfly. It is merely a matter of expanding the horizon. It is like throwing a stone into a pond. The circles become larger and larger, but the center, where the stone lit, is always there. That center is you. You never cease to love yourself——if you do, you are insane, literally! But as time goes on you expand the area of your love-life until you occupy a much smaller part of it than you did when a baby. In the pre-adolescent period the child begins to emancipate himself from exclusive dependence on his mother; to develop more interests outside of the home; to begin to adopt the standards and values of those of his own age and sex (the "gang'', whether this be male or female). Formerly, whatever his mother said was so; now what his mother says is wrong if the gang thinks otherwise. At this stage he is learning how to get along with his equals (his parents may give him the best of it, or the worst of it, but can never treat him as a real equal). This is a particularly important stage in development, because he is being socialized. IV. In the high school period, he begins to take more interest in the other sex. At first this is a generalized interest. The girl is interested in all boys, just because they are boys and she wants to learn what boys are like. But little by little, attention is focused for longer and longer periods of time on one person of the other sex, until by a process of trial and error each learns lis own nature and that of the other sex and finally. V. The adult level of mate-selection is reached, in which each picks a partner for life-long, unique companionship, the establishment of a home, and the founding of a new family. This is the normal process, but unfortunately, development of the individual may be arrested at any stage. Many an adult has really not passed beyond the infantile stage of self-love, of wanting to be waited on and having a tantrum if he does not get his own way. Many an adult is still tied to his mother's apron strings—he has never been weaned, emotionally. (This is a common cause, among men and to a less extent among women, of failure to marty.) Many an adult has not passed beyond the Boy Scout level, emotionally. Still more have remained at an adolescent level, in which any girl is about as attractive as any other (or vice versa) and a love-life can not long be maintained at an adult level—hence broken homes and broken lives. Fundamentally, the failure to go on at the normal time from one stage to the next is due to fear. “The child attached to his mother is afraid to go out with the gang— they won't treat him as well as his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 65 mother does, so he stays where he is comfortable. 'The boy who is getting along well with the gang, is afraid to go out with girls. He knows how to deal with the gang, but he finds that the girls don't admire his accomplishments which the gang thinks are smart—they laugh at him. The boy who is getting along pretty well with a lot of girls is afraid to risk himself in a situation (i.e., marriage) where he has to hold one girl's affection all his life. That seems a big undertaking; he feels safer to stay at the level of a playboy where he can merely "love "em and leave 'em." Boys are a little more likely to be arrested in development at the mother-love stage, girls at the gang stage. A girl who has been taught, more or less unconsciously by her own mother, that "men aren't all that they ought to be" and that a girl's safety and happiness depends on keeping at a safe distance from them, will naturally have trouble in making the swing of interest over from her own sex to the othcr sex. If at the same time she lacks normal social life and plenty of informal associations with boys, it will be easy for her to go through life always afraid of boys and repelling them either by a morbid "hands off" attitude or on the contrary, if she is trying to overcome this fear by aggressiveness and becomes a little desperate, by pursuing them too openly. It is necessary to go through all the stages, if one is to grow up. None of them can be skipped. Jim, for instance, never learned to get along with other boys: he missed the gang stage. At college he wants to get along well with girls and he should be having some romantic friendships with them. But this is lmpossible because he has never learned to get along with his own 66 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE equals (the function of the gang stage) and therefore never can deal with girls as equals. He has in his make-up only two kinds of love, namely, self-love and mother-love; therefore that is all he can offer the girls, and that is not what they want! Since the tendency to grow up emotionally is inherent, all that is necessary is to give it a chance. This means merely that the young people at each stage must (a) be free from fears, inhibitions, frustrations; (b) that they must have opportunity for a normal! Social life, appropriate to their age; and (c) they must have before them all the time the normal patterns appropriate to the next stage, so they will be able to go ahead. While every one of these stages is important, in actual practice the adolescent stage seems to be the "last resting place" of a large proportion of the population. This is due to the fact that some parents do not themselves have any adult patterns to furnish the children; they themselves have never grown up. In the next place, the children often have too little association with their own parents, especially in cities. Schools and colleges have not always recognized the problem and given young people help in growing through the adolescent stage. Finally, most of the patterns of the modern world, which surround our children from morning until night, are infarttile or, at the best, adolescent patterns, provided by the movies, the popular songs of the day, the newspapers and magazines, the billboards, and other educational agencies. Take the matter of married happiness as an illustration. The newspapers are constantly mentioning marriages, but not because they are happy. They are always telling of unhappy marriages—of the broken homes of wealthy, important, or conspicuous people. Married happiness is rarely a theme of the movies, of popular songs, of fiction, or of the "funny papers": they are always presenting the opposite. Is it not almost inevitable, unless parents, church, and other serious interests make a much greater effort to counteract all this, that young people should grow up with the unconscious belief that married happiness is rare, that most of the prominent, wealthy, admirable, and intelligent people of the world fail in marriage; that it's just a gamble— but after all we might as well try it because a license costs only $2 and if we don't like it we can quit at any time! To succeed in marriage and parenthood, therefore, emotional maturity is almost indispensable. 'The attainment of this ought to be one of the principal concerns of modern life. Questions and Problems 1. Suggest two or three changes that you think should be made in the social life of many high school students, in order to promote their normal emotional development. 2. Describe briefly some case from history, in which an intelligent man or woman was characterized by marked emotional immaturity. 3. A recent writer says that if parents are embarrassed by the sex questions of their children, it shows that the parents are not emotionally mature. How do you explain this? 4. A girl who is a freshman in college is not interested in boys; says that in comparison with her own father they all seem too frivolous, insincere — not worth while. How would you counsel her, in order to give her a better perspective? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 67 Literature for the Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Lesson 6 ANNA K. G. WIDTSOE (A Norwegian Lady) ANNA KARINE GAARDEN (WIDTSOE) was born June 4, 1849, in the famous fishing village of Titran, on the island of Froya, the outermost island, off the coast of Norway. She came of goodly parents -and lived in easy circumstances under her father's roof. From her earliest childhood she manifested unusual intelligence and power. She was active, with a sensitive spirit that responded quickly to human needs or to the manifestations of nature. Indeed, her character was early nurtured and moulded by the contrasts of nature and constant battle with the ocean on her native island. She was trained well in her childhood. Every day there was work to be done by the family and the men employed by the father in his fishing outfit. The seasons brought their own tasks—candle making, soap making, putting up fruit, carding and spinning wool, weaving cloth and, with the aid of a tailor, measuring, cutting and sewing the clothes for the family. In these tasks Anna and her sister, Petroline, were required to take part. Thus, they grew in usefulness and understanding. In the home.-also it was the custom, whenever possible, to hold a family gathering every evening, at which hymns were sung, a chapter from the Bible read, selections from musical instruments given and selections from history and literature read or recited. If the mail had arrived, these evenings also included recitals of the news of the day. It was a valuable type of education. The outermost island was not isolated, for, during the fishing season, thousands of men_ gathered from all parts of Norway and other countries of Europe to participate in the profits of the fishermen. The village had a cosmopolitan character. Many men of influence sat at the table of the Gaarden family. This was all educational for Anna and her sister. Anna's father, the government pilot, often took her with him on his trips to distant places; consequently she gained early a wide expetience with conditions prevailing in the world. When she was twelve years of age her beloved mother suddenly passed away. The father, who never remarried, placed the burden of household responsibility upon Anna, guided and directed by her old nurse, Ingeborg Mikkelsen. Soon after Anna's mother died, a new school teacher came to Titran, a black-haired, blue-eyed, deepvoiced, athletic young man, who soon, because of his intelligent helpfulness, became the idol of the people of the village. He comforted the sick, built up the depressed, helped the families with their legal affairs, provided a community house with literature and lectures for the thousands of fishermen who gathered on the island in the fishing season. This young school teacher, John A. Widtsoe by name, determined that some day he should 68 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE marry Anna Gaarden, who attracted him both for her beauty and her intelligence. Anna had many suitors, but decided to give her life into the hands of the schoolmaster, and when a little past twenty-one years of age, married him. The years that followed were very happy. Soon after the marriage the schoolmaster obtained a teaching position in one of the large cities of the mainland; thus she forsook permanently the island of her youth. Seven years after her marriage came the catastrophe that completely changed the current of her life: One day the schoolmaster took sick in the school room, was brought home ill, and three days thereafter, died. The young widow could not understand why the Lord permitted such a thing to happen. She and her two boys needed the husband and father. She fought intense spiritual battles at the time, but came out victorious, with a greater trust and faith in God than she ever had before. The Bible became her constant companion. For a while she taught domestic art in the school in which her husband had taught, but soon settled in the city of Trondhjem, the home of her husband, where she set up business as a dressmaker. One day she took a pair of her son John's shoes to a shoemaker. When she was about to leave the shoemaker said to her, "Madam, I have something better to give you than soles for your son's shoes." Astonished, she asked him what he, a shoemaker, could offer her better than shoemaker's service. He declared solemnly that he could teach her how to win happiness on earth and in the life to come; he could tell her whence she came, why she was on earth, and where she was going after death. The shoemaker was a Mormon convert who in this fashion was bearing testimony to his customer.; When she discovered that the shoemaker, Olaus Johnson, was a Mormon, she was horrified. However, when John's shoes were returned, a Mormon tract was found in each one of them. To her astonishment she found that the assertions made by the tracts were substantiated by Holy Writ. She ventured to attend a meeting of the little branch in Trondhiem. The Elders began to labor with her; she fought valiantly, for she did not wish to become a Mormon. She sat up throughout the nights seeking arguments with which to vanquish the Elders, but she was always vanquished. 'After two years, she became definitely convinced that the despised Mormons possessed the true gospel of the Lord, Jesus Christ. She asked for an early baptism. On April 1, 1881, the ice was broken on the fjord and she was baptized in ice-cold water. She bore the testimony throughout her life that never before or since was she filled with such genial warmth. She began to tell relatives and friends of the pearl of great price that she had found. The usual thing happened—her friends turned away from her, her relatives would hardly speak to her. In despair she went back to the island whence she had come and where with tender heart she had for many years as the daughter of a well-to-do family distributed charity to all who were in need. Yet when she returned as a Mormon, every door was closed against her. She could not find a bed or a meal among relatives and former friends. Thoroughly disillusioned she con- tinued her daily work in Trondhjem, and made plans for emigration to Utah. Tickets were secured; she sold part of what was left of her husband's library, collected the remnants of her property, and with her two boys set sail to join the Latterday Saints in the valleys of the mountains. She arrived in Utah in 1883 and settled in Logan. There she set up her dressmaking shop and began to earn a meager living under conditions very different than those she had known throughout most of her life. Her native country had a soft and easy climate, high mountains covered with green forests, sunlit summers, darkened winters; here the mountains were barren, the climate dry. Nevertheless, she loved the country to which she had come, for here she was with her people, and here she could sit under the voices of the Priesthood of Alinighty God The early days in Zion were not easy, and here in a strange land with few friends the path at times seemed thorny. 'There were weeks when the little family had little or nothing to eat, and her foolish pride kept her from seeking assistance from those who had ample. There were long nights through which she sewed for a pittance. Tlowever, gradually she prospered. She built a small home; she took part in the activities of the Church; she won many friends; she grew greatly in spiritual power. In her thinking and planning, the welfare and the future of her two boys were uppermost. She was very loyal to the schoolmaster's memory; she never remarried. She had promised him to care for the boys and to provide for them training to fit them for the battle of life. Her husband had been a school teacher, and she felt that she could do nothing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 69 better than to cncourage her boys to follow in their father's footsteps. In course of time she secured training for both boys in the schools of that day. 'The older son, after finishing high school, went east to study at Harvard University and graduated in 1894. Her son Osborne soon afterwards graduated from the Utah State Agricultural College, where her son 'John was employed. From then on, life was easier for the widow. Soon, Osborne was sent on a mission to the South Sea'Islands and the family was separated again. A little later John was married. Sister Widtsoe and her sister then took up their abode together in Salt Lake City where she lived until her death. She was a lover of flowers. She spent hours in her garden caring for them, and she insisted that flowers did best when they knew that a loving hand was tending them. Along with the care of her flowers, she enjoyed doing good to those in distress. Emigrants from her native country always found a welcome in her home. She advised, counseled and directed them. Many had a successful beginning in the new land through the influence of Sister Widtsoe. As she became better off financially, she was able to help not only spiritually but materially. Her home, first in Logan and later in Salt Lake City, was always a gathering place for young people who loved the inspiration that flowed 'from her. In 1903, she and her sister accepted gladly a call to do missionary work in Norway, where they remained for more than three years; and after their release spent nearly another year in a successful search for their genealogy. Upon their return in 1907, Sister Widtsoe became active in many public enterprises; belonged to a number of organizations 70 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to advance human welfare; kept up her acquaintanceship with her people, especially with youth and those who needed help. She was exceedingly happy in the realization of her ambition to educate her boys. John, some years after graduation, had gone abroad to study in Europe. Osborne, after graduating from the Utah State Agricultural College, had acquitted himself at Harvard University most creditably. Both became teachers. When she returned from her mission, John was the president of the Utah State Agricultural College, and Osborne held an important position in the Latter-day Saint College, of which he ultimately became the principal. Later on, John became the president of the University of Utah and Osborne the head of the Department of English in that state institution. Each of these onward steps gave great joy to Sister Widtsoe, who felt that thereby she was fulfilling the wishes of her departed husband. She was still happier to know that both boys were faithful to the restored Gospel and active in the Church. She was always a lover of education. From her childhood the poetic instinct had beat strong within her. Nature reacted strongly upon her. In later life she devoted a good part of her time to writing poetry in her native language, much of it of exquisite beauty. She also engaged in Temple work and together with her sister sought eagerly to complete the genealogical records of the family. Her spiritual life was of an exceedingly high order. At one time she was president of the Women's Press Club of Salt Lake City. She held, at various times, other positions of service. Throughout her life her testimony of the truth of the restored Gospe of Jesus Christ never wavered; she grew stronger in her faith day by day. All who came within the radius of her influence were touched by the vigorous, unyielding faith that she possessed. She grieved, as all Latter-day Saints do, over the blindness of those who fail to understand the Gospel. A few days before she died, she declared that the greatest joy that had come into her life was derived from her possession of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as first brought to her by Brother Olaus Johnson, the shoemaker, in Trondhjem. "There has been nothing else sO precious in my life," she said. She died in the faith, July 11, 1919. Topics for Consideration 1. Describe Anna Widtsoe's personality. 2. Why was it natural for her instinctively to impress one as a superior person? 3. Why do you think it was at first hard for her to accept Mormonism? 4. How and why did she become well informed on the scriptures? 5. Relate the similarity of the things she did in girlhood with those Elizabeth Hoagland did. 6. Account for the persecution accorded early converts to Mormonism among all peoples in all lands. 7. What were Anna Widtsoe's greatest desires? 8. Keeping in mind the abilities and achievements of her two sons, what do you estimate her own abilities to be? 9. How did she prove that she was a sincere, devoted Latter-day Saint? 10. She lived a typical Latter-day Saint life. What kind of a life is this? 11. What of value to us may be learned from Sister Widtsoe's life? So Relieve Your eyes "NATURE'S TINT' is what the paper mill calls the paper on which this January number is printed. It has been produced and is being used because it is easier on the eyes than the ordinary white, india, and sepia papers which have been used for many years. This light green paper lends itself very nicely to the reproduction of art work and photographs and at the same time brings out very clearly all the smaller type and reading material. We congratulate the Relief Society Magazine on this forward step and trust that the decision to use Nature's Tint in 1939 will be just one of many incidents that will help to make a happy New Year for readers of this Magazine. THE DESERET NEWS PRESS Printers and Publishers since 1850 29 Richards Street... Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Where to, little Man? A FUTURE GUARANTEED The Outcome Of a Beneficial Income Tiny shoes for today's tiny feet. But some tomorrow these tiny feet must stand in big shoes—IMPORTANT SHOES—in important places. How necessary, therefore, that he be adequately trained and prepared to compete successfully in a world that daily fixes a higher premium on skill and technical knowledge. Make his future secure. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE &> COMPANY ——) = HoME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING. SALT LAKE City. UTAH HEBER J. GRANT. PRESIDENT The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "All that Lam, I owe to my Mother"---Lincoln FEBRUARY, 1939 VOL. XXVI - NO. 2 TH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS UTAH FEBRUARY: 1939 Do Women Want the Truth? February, 1939 Dear Subscriber: You want the truth about products and services. It is perfectly natural for you to purchase that product or that service about which you are best and most reliably informed. We pledge ourselves to do all in our power to make our advertisers aware of their tremendous responsibility to you as a consumer. We will encourage them to make themselves sure of the truth about the product or service they are offering and to present their claims with simple understandable statements that will stand the test of use. May we have your cooperation, expressed in a careful reading of the ads and as much actual buying support as you can consistently give. Let us hear from you, please. THE MAGAZINE THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THAN 40,000 SUBSCRIBERS "L. D. S. Training Pays!" Your FUTURE depends upon your TRAINING. Start your business career now at the L. D. S. Business College 70 No. Main Salt Lake City Stronger Sy EAT MORE Fisher's Vitamin "D" Bread Choose Fisher's Vitamin "'D"' Bread, because it helps build better teeth and stronger bones. Keeps you Healthier, Happier. Product of American Lady Baking Co. The Big Home-Owned Bakery Srousseau Pieces. Dainty and Distinctive Wedding and Birthday gifts that carry with them the charm of individual artistic handiwork. MORMON HANDICRAFT —Gift Shop— 21 West South Temple You Can Gaatly Afford ELECTRIC COOKING  See Your Dealer or Utah Power & Light Co. When Buying Mention Relicf Society Magazine The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVI FEBRUARY, 1939 No. 2
Contents: Charity................................................................ 71 Frontispiece—Roads and Illustration............................. Grace Zenor Pratt 72 Faith................................................................ Donald G. Lyman 73 A Valued Gift...................................................... Mary C. Curry 75 Another Great American............................................ Lottie Barber Brown 76 Contentment....................................................... Evelyn Wilde Heath 79 The Shining Heart................................................ Sibyl Spande Bowen 80 Transition and Illustration....................................... Annie Wells Cannon 85 Anniversary Day.................................................... 86 "Making Friends With Life"........................................ Lais V. Hales 88 Evidence.......................................................... Della Adams Leitner 89 The Valentine.................................................... Alice Morrey Bailey 90 Old Volumes...................................................... Carlton Culmsee 95 The Body's Need For Protein....................................... Rose H. Widtsoe 96 Spring Thaw...................................................... Helen Martin 100 How Psychology Can Help Me As An Adult........................... Mark K. Allen 105 Not Forever Sad.................................................. Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy 108 Happenings....................................................... Annie Wells Cannon 109 Interesting Verse................................................ Kate M. Barker 110 Editorials: Advertising Influence................................. 111 Julia Murdock Farnsworth......................................... 114 Items of Interest: "Priesthood and Church Welfare".............. 115 "Life of Joseph Smith"........................................... 115 Magazine............................................................. 116 Notes from the Field............................................. Julia A. F. Lund 117 Music Department................................................. Wade N. Stephens 122 Lesson Department................................................ 123 Apples On A Plate................................................ Gertrude Perry Stanton 143 [Final page number] 144
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
For Charity never faileth. "Wherefore, cleave unto charity, Which is the greatest of all, "But charity is the pure love of Christ, And it endureth forever; And whoso is found possessed at the last day, It shall be well with him." —Moroni 7:46-47.
For all things must fail...
ROADS
I have often wondered about roads... Traveled by myriad feet— Travelers who come and go, Some happily, some sadly, some with hope...
Some roads lead to high and wooded hills With purple shadows and sylvan dells, And waterfalls... Green glades and pines And crystal atmosphere and peace—
And others toward a desert where the sun Is ever ardent, where cacti is monotony; Where the wild things seem too lonely— Where life moves futilely. Others hopeless.
There are other roads, smooth roads which lead Through fertile plains, o'er daisied slopes Toward golden sunsets.
I have often wondered about roads And the mystery of their travelers...
Grace Zenor Pratt

The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVI FEBRUARY, 1939 No. 2
Faith By Donald G. Lyman
The philosopher James Allen has said, "Spiritual achievements are the consummation of holy aspirations. He who lives constantly in the conception of noble and lofty thoughts, who dwells upon all that is pure and unselfish, will, as surely as the sun reaches its zenith and the moon its full, become wise and noble in character, and rise into a position of influence and blessedness."
Most women's wants are spiritual in their very nature. They are closely associated with the desire for an ever improving home, a husband who stands firmly for the right, and children of whom they may well be proud and who will "arise up and call them blessed". How can we get what we want? What is it we are all seeking? Is it happiness? Perhaps so. That's a vague term, and it means something different to everyone of us. What do you want? Perhaps you want your daughter to stop smoking; perhaps you want your boy to be more careful about choosing his associates, or your husband to magnify his calling in the Priesthood; maybe you would enjoy being more used in Church work; or are you like some who want salvation and exaltation in the world to come and are patiently content with all kinds of unsatisfactory and unsavory conditions in this present life? Do you go along through life with the false hope that the transition from this life to the next one will automatically solve all your problems, or do you seek with faith the aid of your Heavenly Father in your daily attempts to meet your responsibilities and accomplish those things that will bring you happiness now?
It is perfectly normal to desire the good things of the earth for our loved ones and those about us. The Lord has told us to seek after the things that are of good report and praiseworthy. However, the forces of evil are ever present to tempt and lead us through our desires into paths of wickedness and unrighteousness. So it is well to follow along the Lord's path to obtain all things we want in life. Some of us overlook the fact that the Lord has said that we may have what we will if we have faith. Our Savior gave us the key after the incident in which he cursed the unproductive fig tree: "Verily I say unto you, If ye have faith, and doubt not, ye shall not only do this which is done to the fig tree, but also if ye shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; it shall be done. And all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive." (Matthew 21:21-22.)
The Apostle James gives us a little more insight when he said, "From whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they not hence, even of your lusts that war in your members? Ye lust, and have not; ye kill, and desire to have, and cannot obtain; ye fight and war, yet ye have not, because ye ask not. Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lusts.... God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners; and purify your hearts, ye double minded.... Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up." (James 4:1-10.)
To walk in the Lord's path and get the things we want, we must have FAITH and ask our Heavenly Father, doubting not, but believing, and at the same time ask not amiss. This requirement of asking with faith is more simple than most of us realize. It simply means that we review our status before the Lord. We honestly acknowledge our sins and shortcomings, repent and resolve to do better. We make mental note of the progress we are making towards perfection and ask with humility and faith for those things that are in harmony with our measure of perfection under the Lord's plan of life. A repentant man or woman may approach the Lord with faith and gain His help in developing strength in righteousness which is the basis of faith with power. When we approach the Lord we can tell when we are asking with faith and when our prayers are a mockery in his sight.
If a mother wants a son to stop smoking, she usually knows what his answer will be before she asks it. It will be based on their previous association, and the result will depend upon the influence the mother has over the son. Our Heavenly Father can predict the general course of his earthly children, because he knows just how susceptible we are to his influence for good. How important it is that we be conscious of our power to develop through right living and faith the necessary powerful influences to lead our loved ones into the paths of truth and righteousness. When we do to the best of our ability all the things that are required of us in carrying forward our family and Church obligations, then we can approach the Lord in humility but with a confidence or faith that is born of God that our labors are accepted and our desires in righteousness shall be granted. No truer thing was ever said than, "The prayer of the righteous availeth much." Our prayers will be answered as long as and only when they harmonize with our thoughts and actions.
Here is one of the clearest examples found in the scriptures: "In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came unto him, and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, Set thine house in order; for thou shalt die, and not live. Then Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall, and prayed unto the Lord, And said, Remember now, O Lord, I beseech thee how I have walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore. Then came the word of the Lord to Isaiah, saying, Go, and say to Hezekiah, Thus saith the Lord, the God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears; behold, I will add unto thy days fifteen years." (Isaiah 38:1-5.)
Hezekiah's prayer was one of faith coupled with humility uttered by an upright king, and the Lord was bound by this man's faith. Can we not follow this simple pattern, the Lord's path? We want our sons and daughters to do right. Are we willing to do right? Are we using tea and coffee, at the same time deploring the fact that our sons and daughters are smoking and drinking? Are we wondering why some of our sons and daughters have no love for the restored Gospel, and at the same time neglecting our family prayers and thinking lightly of the Sabbath Day? Are we concerned about our youth who do not have a testimony and yet seldom if ever bear our own testimony of God's work in their presence at home or elsewhere? Are we content to stay home ourselves and urge our children to attend Sunday School and other worth while Church meetings? If we answer "yes" to any of these simple little questions that just scratch the surface of our responsibility to our children, then there should be no question in our minds why the Lord does not answer our prayers. We can not pray to the Lord with faith, believing, when we ourselves are not putting forth a real effort to live the Gospel. When we can go before the Lord as humble King Hezekiah did and say, "Remember now, O Lord.... I have walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight...." Then will the Lord be bound to answer our prayers of faith, and we shall have the desires of our hearts in righteousness.
A VALUED GIFT By Mary C. Curry
If one might choose a gift From those designed for humankind, A gift more precious than the gifts Of wealth or fame or brilliant mind,
No gift could be more valued For the good it may impart Than to have and operate An understanding heart.
(Courtesy, "The Union Signal")
Another Great American By Lottie Barber Brown
Horace Greeley for forty years was America's busiest and boldest editor. He seemed to be everywhere, speaking, lecturing, attending conventions, never seeming to tire. If there was ever an important occasion, there you would find Horace Greeley, either as a delegate or a reporter, and he constantly conferred with the great and near great. Through his fearlessness and hard work he made the New York Tribune. The name of Greeley and The Tribune became almost synonymous. Through this great medium Greeley climbed to fame, and men and women throughout the nation followed his guidance in many great causes. Despite the fact that he was reared in poverty he felt that money should be the reward for hard work, and he severely condemned its acquisition in any other way. He said, "The darkest day in any man's earthly career is that in which he first fancies that there is some easier way of gaining a dollar than by squarely earning it. He has lost his way through the moral labyrinth and henceforth must wander as chance may dictate."
Greeley was a peculiar fellow. His high shrill voice was not pleasant to listen to, and many times his hearers would put their fingers in their ears. But the logic of his message seemed to penetrate the very soul, even though he lacked the charm of flowery presentation. He had a wonderful memory, and as a result, it was hard for him to understand why others of his profession did not have at their command the thousands of facts, dates and events which he held in recollection. His aversion to tobacco was very pronounced, for upon being offered a cigar he pushed it aside with: "No thank you. I haven't got so low down as that yet." Not only was he a remarkable writer of editorials, but his ability as a reporter and his mastery of the printer's art all combined to make the Tribune a model paper.
At Amherst, New Hampshire, Horace Greeley's mild, blue eyes first opened on February 3, 1811, being the third child of Zaccheus and Mary Woodburn Greeley. His father and mother struggled hard to lift the mortgage from their forty-acre farm, which was covered mostly with large boulders and trees. Horace was quite a wonderful child, being able to read when he was little more than a baby. Started school when he was three, when he went to Bedford to live with his Grandfather Woodburn. He found school very entertaining. He not only continued in his ability to read, but he also had an extra fancy for the spelling book, and the "spelling bee" was his delight, for he "spelled down" all opponents. Imagine a child of five having finished reading the Bible! Other books of his choice at which he spent his time while others of his age were playing were: Pilgrim's Progress, The Arabian Knights, and Robinson Crusoe. When he was thirteen he was taken out of school because the teacher could no longer instruct him.
As he grew up it was plain to him that farming was not the proper vocation for him, although he strongly recommended it to others. He decided to become a printer, and at the age of eleven made his first application, but being small of stature he was not accepted. Four years later he was accepted as an apprentice with the Northern Spectator, a paper in a town some twelve miles distant. His board was his only remuneration for the first six months, at which time he received a raise which amounted to forty dollars a year. In June, 1830, he was freed from his contract by the closing of the doors of the Northern Spectator. He was greatly admired by the townsfolk who sorrowfully watched him leave on foot to go to his parents who now lived four hundred miles away in Vermont.
Scarcely a year had passed before he found himself in the city of New York, a city of two hundred and twenty thousand people. He was just past twenty, tall and slender, with very few clothes other than the ones he had on, and ten dollars in his pocket. He knew the world was before him, and with the knowledge of the art of printing which he had obtained he set to with all his might. Surmounting all the difficulties of a stranger in a strange place he was a partner in a printing business within three years. The firm did well and shortly began the publishing of a weekly literary journal, The New Yorker, which Greeley edited himself. His great editorial ability was quickly recognized, and the paper grew steadily in popularity, for without fear or favor he spared none, either in praise or condemnation, in his opinions through the editorial columns.
September 16, 1839, when the "Mormons" were being so unjustly persecuted in Jackson County, Missouri, there was a mass meeting held in New York at which resolutions were framed denouncing the conduct of the Missourians, about whom Greeley wrote: "It is a burning disgrace to civilization and humanity that the outrages of which the poor 'Mormons' were the victims were committed, but a far deeper disgrace that those enormities have not to this day been made the subject of any judicial investigation. The grand juries and prosecuting attorneys of the counties adjacent to the scenes of horror are grossly culpable; but what shall we say of a governor (L. W. Boggs) who officially countenanced the murder of a people whom he was bound to protect? Missouri, until the blood is washed from her garments, is a disgrace to the Union."
The young editor's talent as a critic of public affairs was quickly recognized by the political leaders of the time, and he was prevailed upon to edit a daily campaign paper, The Constitution, during a New York City election. He was then asked to perform a similar duty in a state election in which the Jeffersonian was equally effective in helping to elect the governor. Then in 1840 the Whig party decided that a campaign paper should be issued, to be called The Log Cabin, to be conducted by Horace Greeley. He became the vital center in the campaign in state and nation, for besides editing, writing and setting type, he sat in party councils and made many speeches. The Log Cabin had been so popular that it did not die when the campaign was over, but the burden of carrying two papers became too great, and it was decided to start a daily morning newspaper to replace the two. Accordingly on April 10, 1841, the first issue of The New York Tribune came off the press.
Greeley first met Abraham Lincoln at Washington, D. C., in 1848. Lincoln was a representative in Congress. Despite the fact that Greeley doubted the wisdom of the choice of the Convention of 1860, which nominated Abraham Lincoln for President in opposition to Stephen A. Douglas, Lincoln's victory at the polls can be attributed to Greeley's whole-hearted support. Throughout the great conflict which followed closely upon Lincoln's entering the White House, the Tribune played an important part in expressing public sentiment. Greeley stood well in the graces of President Lincoln, yet never did he exercise any "pull," either for himself or his friends, except as it was done through the New York Tribune. Shortly after his second inauguration, Lincoln said of Greeley: "I have been a constant reader of the Tribune since its establishment and have regarded Mr. Greeley as the ablest editor in the United States, if not in the world. I believe he has exerted more influence in the country than any other man, not excepting the President of the United States. I consider him the equal if not the superior of Benjamin Franklin."
Greeley's just and fair conclusion about Abraham Lincoln was read in the columns of the New York Tribune after the assassination of the Great Emancipator. To quote in part: "He was no inspired Elijah or John the Baptist, emerging from the awful desert.... He was simply a plain, true, earnest, patriotic man, gifted with eminent common sense, which in its wide range gave a hand to shrewdness on the one hand, humor on the other, and which allied him intimately, warmly, with masses of mankind. There are those who say that Mr. Lincoln was fortunate in his death as in his life; I judge otherwise. I hold him most inapt for the leadership of a people involved in a desperate, agonizing war; while I deem few men better fitted to guide a nation's destinies in time of peace. Especially do I deem him fitted to soothe, to heal, and to unite in bonds of true, fraternal affection a people just lapsing into peace after years of distracting, desolating internal strife. His true career was just opening when an assassin's bullet quenched his light of life."
The town of Greeley, Colorado, was founded as a model town by his former agricultural editor, N. C. Meeker, and in September, 1870, Greeley made a tour of the West and visited the town that was named in his honor. Nineteen years earlier he had made a trip to California and had interviewed Brigham Young while in Salt Lake City. Greeley wrote several books, the most important of which was The American Conflict. It is rather strange that we find Horace Greeley opposing Grant in the election of 1872, but it came rather unexpectedly to him as well. Perhaps it will seem still more peculiar when we note that, though The New York Tribune was recognized as the voice of the Whig Party, which later grew into the Republican Party, Greeley was now a Democratic standard bearer. But it was not to be his lot to enter the White House. Neither was it hard for him to take defeat. Two weeks before election he was called to the bedside of his wife who passed away after a long illness, October 30, 1872. Those two weeks were very telling on this overworked mental giant. His last contribution to the paper he had made so powerful appeared on November 8, 1872. He was confined to his bed from then until the end came November 29 of that year. Thus passed a great friend of the poor, the laborer and the oppressed, a great American.

CONTENTMENT By Evelyn Wilde Heath
Dawning and sunrise splendor, Another task begun; Noonday with light and beauty, Evening with work well done. Why should we wish for glory? Glory must be like this.
Darkening shades of night, Home with sweet contentment, Stars in a moon-bright Heaven, Memories and firelight; Heaven must be like this.
And over and over and over, Each day bringing well earned bliss Love and the joy of a kiss; Why should we wish for Heaven?
Gloaming and sunset hour, Heaven must be like this.

The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHAPTER ONE
Before old Philander Maddox would consent to come North and visit his son Tom and his family, he had to be assured that every last vestige of the old family mansion he himself had built in the first flush of his Alaska prosperity had been demolished. He had to know that the face of the estate had been changed entirely by the huge Georgian brick house and the expensive landscaping Tom had undertaken this last year. The place was finished now, and old Philander sat upon its western terrace facing a superb June sunset on Puget Sound, listening to the soothing and unimportant chatter of Tom's plump wife, Phoebe, and telling himself that if a man is to keep himself young in this rushing world he has to clear the decks of the old things every so often and surround himself with the new. And old Philander was convinced he had indeed hoodwinked Time with the clean sweep of the new house.
The lawns of Oakwood sloped in an almost unbroken expanse of beautiful sod to the beach, where it was separated from the public footpath by a hedge of shrubs. As old Phil gazed over the crimsoned water with his clear, hard, blue eyes, he sat suddenly upright and snorted. "There's that old pest Brill Carey coming along the path, Phoebe, or I'm a walrus," he grumbled, and attempted to get up. "I'm going in."
"But you can't, father," Phoebe protested, "she's coming to see you. She never calls on us any more. Anyway, she won't stay long. One thing about Miss Brill, she comes straight to the point."
Old Philander sat down again, arranging his long thin legs on the long chair and sitting tense as a stubborn child. "Confound it," he complained, "I wish she'd stay away. You can spend a fortune changing houses and furniture, and then she bobs up. It makes a man feel old to meet a woman in her dotage and have to remember he dandled her on his knee as a baby."
"But she isn't so old," Phoebe protested, "about fifty-five—though I'll admit she looks all of seventy."
Old Philander made impatient noises in his throat. "Wish she'd hurry up, get it over with—say, what the—" The old man scrambled nervously to his feet. "She's fallen!" cried Phoebe, and betook her plump self over the terrace and lawns with surprising speed, calling to two gardeners working near the greenhouse as she ran down the flagged path to the prone figure of Miss Brill.
The gardeners laid the thin woman on the long chair hastily vacated by old Phil, and it was only minutes before she opened her eyes and struggled to a sitting position. "Hello, Uncle Phil," she said confusedly, "you're looking right spry as usual." Mr. Maddox winced at the "uncle" and growled. "Why shouldn't I? I take good care of myself. Expect to live to be a hundred. But you won't live that long, my girl, unless you can learn to keep both feet on the ground."
"Lie down again, Miss Brill," Phoebe advised in her soft tones, "you struck a rock when you fell. You ought to rest a minute."
"I'm all right," Miss Brill muttered. "I'll rest when I get this business for my girl settled." She tucked a wisp of gray hair into place with a long hairpin and looked at old Phil over her high Roman nose. Old Phil fidgeted and looked vague. "Your girl?"
"Yes. My niece, Nellis Adair Carey," Miss Brill said. Old Philander chewed the end of his moustache furiously. "Fancy name her folks gave her," he said. Niece? Niece? Was there anything he did not know about his old friend Tom Carey's family?
"I gave her the name," Miss Brill answered. "Nobody knows what I suffered as a child with Brilliant Alaska Carey attached to me, just because my father happened to make a strike there. I wanted Nell to have a lovely name, Nellis Adair. And I want you to find a job for her."
Old Phil chuckled. "I remember Tom coming back with his gold jingling, finding you a big girl and still without a name, so he made it Brilliant Alaska. I like it." His face puckered. "Times are hard in San Francisco," he grumbled, "don't know as I have any jobs."
"You can find one, in one of those big office buildings of yours," Miss Brill insisted. "Nell is eighteen, she's bright, and she's talented. I want her to do something that will give her time to work on her painting."
"Painting!" Philander Maddox snorted. "So she paints, does she? If your father'd put his Alaska gold to work when he came down here, same's I did, instead of frittering away with his painting, maybe you wouldn't need a job for the girl. You'd much better teach her to cook."
"I have. She's a good cook," retorted Miss Brill, "but she paints, too. The way I could have done, if I hadn't let people talk me out of it." This last, resentfully.
"Tom Carey had sense there, at least," Mr. Maddox observed shrewdly, "he knew how to manage his womenfolks." As yet he had promised no job. He didn't know that he would. People presumed a good deal on an old friendship. Almost as if she had heard the thought, Miss Brill settled that notion with her next breath. "When father died, twenty years ago," she reminded him dryly, "I believe you offered to do anything you could for me. I've never asked for anything for myself. Now I want a job for Nell. Switchboard operator, or something like that. Nothing fancy."
"Of course," old Philander agreed hastily. Confound the woman, that offer had been made when she was younger and more appealing, and people thought Tom had left her plenty of money. He fidgeted about, blew his nose, then sent for some note paper. He scribbled a message on it to one of his building superintendents in behalf of one Nell Carey and handed it to the girl's aunt. Miss Brill examined it to see if it really meant anything, folded it and got shakily to her feet.
"You mustn't think of going yet," protested Phoebe, "or perhaps you'll let me send you back in the car."
"No," said Miss Brill, "I'll walk. Air'll do me good. Clear my head." She turned to Mr. Maddox. "You won't lose anything by this. You'll have the best switchboard girl you ever had, and the prettiest, too."
The scowl lifted from the petulant old face. "Pretty, is she?" He sat up suddenly. "Tell her to come and see me. I like pretty girls in my buildings. The tenants like sightly faces about 'em."
Miss Brill looked at old Philander coldly. "But she's got plenty of sense, too," she said shortly, nodded to Phoebe and stalked steadily enough across the flagstone terrace to the path through the shrubbery.
Behind the thicket of laurel was a stone bench. Suddenly Miss Brill crumpled upon it, breathing heavily. She was much shaken. It was a bitter thing, after twenty years of struggling by herself, to have to ask Phil Maddox for a favor—even for Nell. She took out her handkerchief and wiped the moisture from her upper lip. She took several deep breaths and felt better. She mustn't tell Nell she had asked old Philander for the job. The girl must think he had offered it. Nell wouldn't mind it, that way. No Carey ever asked favors.
Miss Brill took the note from her pocket and read it again. Sixty dollars a month that Barstow girl got at the Smith Building for the same work. Nell would be rich on sixty dollars—and the money in the chest. And Mary Cartwright, down in San Francisco, could find the girl a cheap, safe room. Miss Brill got up stiffly from the bench and continued down the path to the beach trail. Her leg dragged a bit. The doctor had said, that last time, that she'd have to avoid any excitement. Well, she wouldn't be asking for a job from Philander Maddox again in a hurry, and there was no excitement at the gray house. She had difficulty getting over the Maddox stile, but once on the sandy beach path she felt better. There were the huge driftwood logs to rest upon from time to time. Ahead of her, a haven, loomed the Carey house, foursquare, rising from the thicket of fir to three grim, gray stories of moldy grandeur topped by a once red-roofed cupola. Miss Brill left the path, went down into the ravine made by the spring on her property, crossed the cherry wood bridge Nell had built over the stream in the gloom of the fir thicket and gained her kitchen. She sat down heavily in the wooden rocker and closed her eyes. It was a long time before she felt able to open them again. Like a vague dream in the back of her mind was the picture of the Chinese chest. The chest in the upper hall! She shook her head impatiently and got up. Her weakness frightened her. What would Nell do if—anything should happen. Nothing on earth but the old house, and who would want that? Miss Brill winced before this fact, but she faced it. Passionately she loved the gray house. Its three uncompromising tiers of gray wood rising from the rocky beach she thought just as gor- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 83 geous, just as aristocratic as had old Tom Carey when he built it in the warm flush of his new Alaska money. A Carey family seat he had planned it to be, blue Puget Sound at its feet, acres of towering virgin Douglas fir guarding it on three sides. The Sound was there, and the old house, but the forest had dwindled to the few trees in the ravine, and of the Careys there remained but Miss Brill —and Nell. A grand place for Careys, but too near the water for ready sale. People liked their homes away from the water, on a rise of ground like the big Maddox place. Where the noise of the surf wouldn't disturb them on stormy nights, where the hoarse note of the foghorns wouldn't annoy them. Surf and foghorns! Miss Brill would die without these sounds of her youth, of her home. She fumbled in her pocket for the note. Of course! Nell wouldn't need to cling to the old place. She would have her job and her painting. Just a start was all Nell needed, Miss Brill thought vaguely. Nell ought to be here now, so she could tell her the news. She noticed a note on the table then and managed to grasp it without getting up. Fred, Nell wrote, had to go into town, so they were staying to a movie, if they could get the afternoon rates. Just like Fred, Miss Brill thought scornfully, rushing Nell off in the middle of the afternoon to save a dime on his courting. She found bread and butter, fresh strawberries and milk under the clean towel on the table. After she had eaten the simple meal she felt stronger. It was proving to be nothing at all, this weakness. It would soon go, soon leave her strong and independent again, leave Nell free. Suddenly Miss Brill bestirred herself, put on her old hat and raincoat, locked the kitchen door and started slowly up the road again. She needed air and might as well go up to Carsons at the big fruit farm for that job of linen-hemming while she was getting it. The linen-hemming for Mildred Carson's trousseau would buy Nell the dress she needed for traveling. It was two miles to Carson's, and the leg dragged just a bit more heavily, but Miss Brill promised herself she'd go slowly. "Air— work—money—" the tired woman mumbled to herself. TWILIGHT lingers in the Northwest. It was still vaguely light, in spite of the misty rain that had begun to fall, when Fred Nagle's small coupe threaded back along Cove toad. Nell Carey, rather silent, sat back in the seat beside Fred. He drove with nervous care, never quite easy at the wheel, but anxious to impress-the girl beside him with his mastery of all things material. "You're sure quiet," he protested. Deep in his heart he felt a girl had no right to help spend a fellow's money and then sit silent as a clam on the way home. Nell smiled. "Just thinking of that show, Fred. It was beautiful, wasn't it, where the girl went to her sweetheart and married him, even after he was blind." "What were they going to live on was what I'd like to know?" Fred objected. "Things aren't like that in real life." "Oh, Fred, you aren't one bit romantic, are you?" Nell said impatiently 84 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Say, stop a minute! That looked as if someone was lying beside the road back there." Fred reversed the car, and stopped beside a blackberry thicket. Sitting on the ground, leaning against an abandoned water pipe, was indeed a woman. Nell scrambled out of the car and ran to her. Even in the dim light she could recognize her. "Aunt Brill!" she cried, terrified, "whatever are you doing here?" Miss Brill murmured dazedly, "Oh, it's you, Nell. I just sat here by the fire and sort of dozed—why—" she lifted her hand helplessly to her head. "She's gone balmy,' bluntly. Nell hushed him angrily. "Of course not. Justa little dazed. Help her into the car. Maybe she hurt her head when she fell." As they struggled to get the woman into the little car, Nell saw the brown paper parcel. "Why, she's been way up to Carson's. No wonder she's all in. Aunt Brill, you need a good scolding. told you [I'd run up for that work in the morning." Miss Brill aroused herself briefly, embarrassed. "I—thought I was home. By the fire. I had to rest— just a bit." Then she burst out triumphantly, "Old Phil gave you a job, Honey. A good job, down in San Francisco." For a moment Nell was speechless, holding tightly to Miss Brill's lax hand. "A job in San Francisco! You can't mean it, Aunt Brill. Fred, did you hear that? I'm going to art school. Now! This summer!" Fred stepped viciously on the gas. "Craziest notion I ever heard of Fred said What a girl like you, with a chance to get married, wants to go to art school for!" He turned angrily on Miss Brill. "That's your notion, Miss Brill. Nellie never would have thought of it by herself." Nell laughed. "Thanks, Fred, but it was as much my idea as hers. | don't want to get married yet. I'm too young, and I've never seen anything, never been anywhere." Miss Brill sat back, grimly pleased. That'd teach Fred Nagle. He wasn't worth Nell, or anything like it, him with his head full of nothing on earth but his coop full of prize chickens and more money to put in the bank. She wished she did not feel so dizzy, and she'd enjoy this triumph more. As it was— 7 "FRAID you'll have to help me out," she muttered as Fred brought the car to a petulant stop in the Carey driveway. "Don't stay tonight," Nell whispered to the fierce-browed young man as they settled the woman in the rocker near the kitchen range, "Aunt Brill isn't well." "You mean you don't want me to interfere with your talk about that pesky art school business," Fred retorted, lifting the lid of the stove and shoving in a couple of lengths of split pine. "Well, I'll go, but you haven't heard it all from me yet. A promise is a promise, and I have a few rights. I think we ought to go on as we planned." "As you planned," Nell corrected him softly. "Good-night, Fred, and thanks for the movie." He nodded sullenly and went out. The girl sighed as she opened the oven door and lifted Miss Brill's RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 85 damp teet up to the warm perch. She put water in the kettle and set it over the blaze. "I'll have you some cocoa in a minute. That'll warm you up," she said cheerfully. The old lady roused herself. "You go to art school, Nell. The money— the Chinese chest—you know—" her face reddened with the effort of speech. "Yes, of course. I know where we hide our money," Nell murmured, "but don't worry about it now. Just relax." "But you don't know—more money—the shining heart—" the old lady muttered, and that was the last word she said that night. For in that instant she gave a shudder and fell to the floor in an unconscious, moaning heap. (To Be Continued) TRANSITION By Annie Wells Cannon I know there are clouds in the sky And a sheet of snow on the ground, But what care I? E'en though I die; For I have found Beyond the clouds the stars still shine, And under the snow sweet violets grow. All things await the touch divine. Anniversary Day 66 THE Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," the opening song of that memorable meeting held March 17, 1842, in Joseph Smith's store in Nauvoo, Illinois, gave voice to the spirit that burned within the hearts of eighteen women gathered together, that a prophet of God might organize them into a society for service and self-development. With the passing years the hearts of thousands of women have burned with the spirit of Relief Society. Its benevolent administrations have been a blessing; its endless opportunities for self-expression have brought joy and development to Latter-day Saint women; its achievements have been glorious. March 17 the gratitude of Relief Society members will be expressed in Anniversary Day observances. Thousands of women in twenty-two nations will "honor those who fashioned for good the ideals we cherish". An entire sisterhood will pause to take thought of the divinity within our organization, of the inspiration that guides its destinies, and will pray that it may know an even more glorious future. Therefore it seems fitting that Anniversary Day programs interpret the spirit of the organization. Though not necessarily somber and formal, a certain dignity and appropriateness should characterize them. N understanding of the purposes of the organization, an appreciation of its history and accomplishments, an insight into the lives of those who have contributed to its onward march is evidenced in many interesting programs of the past. An entertaining and appropriate program centering around Eliza Roxey Snow, the first general president of the Society in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains, was given in one of the wards. Sister Snow was presented in a brief biographical sketch as patriot, poetess, and religious leader. 'This was followed by the rendition of "O My Father", that inspired gem for which she will always be loved and remembered. Other familiar songs, the words of which were her compositions, were rendered as vocal and instrumental numbers. Two of her poems were read, "I Love My Flag" and "My Heart Is Fix'd". Concluding the program a brief explanation of the Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poetry Contest was given, and the prize winning poem for the year was read by its composer. Each of our general presidents have been unusually endowed, their contributions unique, and might be similarly featured on Anniversary Day programs. Ward Relief Society histories lend themselves to profitable entertainment. A recent Anniversary program dramatized the most outstanding contribution of each administration to the growth of the Ward organization. A reader introduced each scene by reading explanatory excerpts directly from the history and concluded the scene by introducing the sister who was president of that particular administration. This ward RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 87 was fortunate in having each past president present. A bouquet of flowers was presented to each, and a brief response given. The Singing Mothers rendered musical numbers between each scene. Delightful entertainments have been given featuring various phases of the Relief Society program—welfare, education, homemaking, etc. A large replica of the Magazine was utilized by one ward in its Anniversary program. 'The Magazine was opened, like a door, by a woman beautifully gowned in white, representing Relief Socicty. From the pages of the Magazine the sisters stepped forth and formed effective still pictures of each phase of the work; each picture was introduced by a reader. Special musical numbers were rendered. This program closed with women ranging in age from very young to those of advanced years, representing Relief Society membership. The last scene was most effective, summing up the meaning of Relief Society in the lives of its members. Wholesome social contacts have always been encouraged. How many delightful Relief Society birthday parties have been given, where tables have been made beautiful with the Relief Society colors, gold and blue (never green and white), centered with a birthday cake, where delicious luncheons have been served and clevcr toasts given. Many of our sisters are almost entirely dependent upon the Church for their social life. What an ideal time is our Anniversary for providing this needed entertainment. Anniversary programs should utilize Relief Society members as far as possible. If the entertainment is given at night the use of children should be avoided. Relief Society is an organization of mothers working for the best interests of children. Little children should not be deprived of sleep in order to entertain mothers. If games are used in our entertainments they should be games which challenge the interest of mature women. SHOULD those eighteen charter members of Relief Society step from the pages of history on March 17, 1939, would they be proud and happy to join with your ward in its Anniversary observance? Would they fee] again the spirit felt that March 17, 1842? Would they see their ideals a living issue, magnified, bringing joy to every Latter-day Saint woman? Anniversary Day programs should be more than ordinary programs, with the usual run of music and verse. 'They should stir us afresh with an appreciation of our organization. They should bring together the women of the Church in a spirit of love and fellowship. Anniversary Day should be a day when every woman has a good time, when she returns to her home grateful for the completeness of the organization and her membership in it, singing in her heart, "For glorious achievement throughout the passing years, For wond'rous devotion that ever endears, We honor and love those who fashioned for good The ideals we cherish, ennobling womanhood," "Making Friends With Life" —Dr. James Reid By Lais V. Hales ONE of the crying needs of our day is that we should make friends with life. The Chinese have such a habit. There, even though a man is desperately poor and unfortunate, he will sit in the sun with his bit of bread and taste the beauty of the flowers, the trees, the birds. No outside influence can destroy his inner calm or take away his joy. "I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content." Life to many of us is like a dog with an uncertain temper. We never know at what moment it may turn and bite us. Some people are suspicious of life. Some are hostile to it while others fight it. Most of us are never quite happy, never wholly at our ease. We have not made friends with life. In making friends with life two things should be remembered. One is the habit of realizing joys as they pass. "I mark only the sunny hours," is the motto on a sundial. That way of living is not possible, for the dark hours cannot be cut out of our lives. But "much of the good of life is lost for want of noting it and tasting it with gratitude before its passing." 'The other fact that we must remember is acceptance. Rebellion is foolish and the way to bitterness. In life there will be things that annoy and wound. Accept them, for they are part of God's discipline. With this acceptance will come peace. Christ tells us that "life is God's instrument for making us what He wants us to be, and for giving us His own best gifts." There are things God can give us through the sweet and lovely experiences of life. But there are things He can give us only when some wound has made an opening for His love and care. There are things He can say to us through a sunset, and there are things He can say to us through a sunset, and there are things He can say to us through sorrow. We must realize that whatever happens, it is all good. We can be sure of God's love in everything. He does not strike the cruel blow. Sorrow comes fo us in a world which He has made. "His power to control and transform for our good that which happens we must keep in mind. We become friends with life when we make friends with God." To attain this Christ tells us to find time or make time for quietness and solitude. "Be still, and know that Iam God." It is in inner quietness with God that our souls are nourished. Like plants in the garden, the quality of our life on the surface depends on the roots—the life below the surface. Peace comes from knowing that God is our friend. 'Vhe world," said Keats, "Ss the vale of soul-making." FRUSTRATION is a very common feeling. Some of us are frustrated by ill health, weakness of will, mora] failure, physical limita- tions. In a sense none of us fulfil our dreams. Our reach exceeds our grasp. 'This feeling of frustration may come from missing the real meaning of'life. "The real purpose of our being is that God's Spirit should be kindled in us and come to burn in our lives." We feel frustrated unless we are of use to others. © Only by learning to give ourselves do we find ourselves. Happiness cannot be found by seeking it—even in religion. It can only be found by forgetting ourselves. God cares for each of us. We need to hold this belief close to our hearts today. We must not lose our sense of being worth while to God. If we do life becomes "just a mean struggle in the dark". Why do good men suffer and evil men often prosper? This question goes "sounding and _ sobbing" through the Psalms. Why are prosperous people so often spiritually blind? This often happens where life is uneventful. No reverses, no sorrows, no trials, enter their lives. But let these come and they seek God. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 89 Most of us come to God through some sense of need. 'This may seem cruel if we don't remember that, "The whole meaning. Of life is that we should grow out of the material world into the spiritual." In these busy days we need to learn the art of resting. "The quiet Sunday has behind it a law of nature, and the laws of nature are the laws of God." We should not only rest on Sunday—we should rest with God. For this quietness Sunday provides the time, and its worship the opportunity. If it were only for these things our Sundays should be cherished and guarded. Heaven is a condition not a place. "He who has put his weak hand into the hand of Christ knows that he has been gripped by something which is not going to let go. If we know God in Christ and trust Him, we know that this love is the foundation of all things. "Surely His goodness and kindness Will abide when my seeing is dim. He is everlasting divineness; I will house me in Him." os EVIDENCE By Della Adams Leitner We say we love the Sermon On The Mount, It is the true ideal for all good things. In contemplation of its noble truths Our hearts are thrilled, our inspiration wings, And we are lifted up, our spirits soar; And this is well. But if we fail to take Back to the valley of our daily lives These things to live by, then we only make A pretense that the doubters scoff to see. Interpreting is our responsibility.
The Valentine By Alice Morrey Bailey
"Mother, don't get cross if I ask you something, will you?"
"Well, go ahead. What is it?" Marian raised her head from the pillow to look at Tommy.
"Mother, I— Well, Mother, it's like this. You see, all the kids are giving all the other kids valentines. I haven't enough to go around."
"Oh! Is that what you disturbed Mother for, Tommy? Couldn't you see I have a headache?"
"I'm sorry, Mom. You've always got—" Tommy bit his lip on the last word and left the room, his face drained of the hope it had held.
Marian sighed. Tommy should have known better than to intrude on her when she was in this mood. His steps had sounded so like Hervey when he walked to the bed. It was cruel never to know Hervey's steps coming toward her again like that, to see his bright, impish face. Her eyes filled with tears again, and she buried her face in the pillow. She had had the "blues" all day, beginning in the morning when she had run across Hervey's brown school oxford in a box in the closet. The mate to that oxford had been lost in the accident that had taken him forever from them.
She heard Therese come in and put her school books on the table in the hallway. "Goodness!" she thought. "Is it that time?" Alf would be home in less than an hour and nothing done towards dinner. Arousing herself she went into the kitchen. She decided that she'd better prepare the vegetables before she started the lunch dishes, stacked not too tidily on the sink. Oh dear! What could she have for dessert? Too late for anything except a bottle of fruit and some wafers—if there were any left.
Therese came from her room. With a glance at her mother's face she attacked the dishes, her lovely mouth a little grim, her eyes rebellious.
Dinner was a heavy meal. Alf looked at her sharply and fell to eating silently. It seemed to her he was not sympathetic lately. There were times when expressions of distinct annoyance flitted across his face. She looked at the other four members of her family: Therese, nineteen, Isabel, seventeen, and Janice, fifteen—Alf used to call them his "stepping stones"—and Tommy, nine. Hervey had left a gap. He would have been twelve now. Marian smothered a sob with a sigh.
"Mother, the funniest thing happened in school today," recited Janice, her eyes sparkling with reminiscence. "You know old Funnyface, our Algebra teacher? Well, I was sitting by Marie and he—" Janice's story died a natural death. No one laughed, and she, too, fell to eating silently.
"By the way, Isabel, where were you last night?" said Therese suddenly.
"Wouldn't you like to know?" tossed Isabel.
"What do you mean by that?" said Alf.
"Nothing," said Isabel blandly. She looked at her father with clear, unreadable eyes.
"Well, Daughter, where were you? Didn't you go to Mutual?"
"Probably running around with Gib Spencer again," put in Therese.
"Therese!" reproved Marian.
"You haven't answered my question, Isabel," reminded Alf.
"Well, I wasn't doing anything out of the way. Gib is nice—as nice as Dewey." Therese widened her eyes at this blasphemy, but held her tongue.
"That isn't the point, Isabel. You should have been in Mutual; and we'd like to make Gib's acquaintance."
"Yes, imagine bringing him here," said Isabel under her breath.
"What?" said Alf.
"Nothing," mumbled Isabel.
"May I go out to play after supper?" asked Tommy.
"Yes, an hour," granted Marian.
After supper Alf dispatched Isabel and Janice to the kitchen to take care of the dishes. Therese took the vacuum and the dust cloth to the living room. By that token they all knew that she was expecting Dewey. Dewey, a bright young lawyer, and Therese had been engaged for over a year.
"What in the world is that?" said Alf, putting down his paper. Outside there was a rising clamor of angry little-boy voices. Alf stepped to the door. Tommy, paper-white and sobbing, was holding at bay on the front sidewalk a mob of jeering, shrieking boys. When Alf opened the door they fled.
"Yes, the old cowards!" Tommy sobbed. "Why don't they come and fight me on my own property?"
"What's the matter, son? Calm down now so that you can talk."
"Well, they said I—I didn't hold up my end of the bargain. They aren't going to send me any valentines 'cause I didn't give a present on the school tree at Christmas. I don't care. I don't want their old valentines. They're my enemies. Everybody's my enemies—my teachers, and even my own mother."
"Tommy! Tommy!" said Alf, shocked. Oh dear! Thought Marian, distressed. What a terrible child he is growing to be—a problem child.
"You'd better apologize to your mother, now," said Alf sternly.
Tommy choked. "Well, I'm sorry. Only I don't get a handkerchief, and I can't remember to brush my teeth and our row doesn't get a gold star on account of me."
"That's enough! Now why didn't you give a present at Christmas?"
"Well, I didn't have one to give and we drew names, and I told Mother, but she didn't give me one."
"I forgot about it," said Marian. "But I've been so nervous and upset. You just can't imagine—"
"Yes, I know," said Alf. "Well, surely you can see where all this is leading to, Marian."
"I can see where all what is leading to?" said Marian. "I'm sure I'm not to blame. Tommy will have to learn to brush his teeth without being told. You know what I've been going through this last year."
The inference disquieted her, however, and later she asked Alf what he meant by it, but he only grunted and retreated behind his paper.
Dewey came. "I suppose you are all aware of my designs," he said after his greeting, slipping an arm about Therese. They all laughed but Isabel, who looked at them with silent distaste. Dewey was quick to notice it. "Do I hear a dissenting vote?" he bantered. "What are your objections, my girl."
"I'm not on the witness stand," flashed Isabel, but she laughed.
"Mother, come and see what Tommy has done," wailed Janice from the kitchen. "Cut up my pictures for my Home Ec. Scrapbook. And just look what he's done to the kitchen."
"You'll have to pick up every scrap of paper," scolded Marian. "Why don't you ever ask? What did you do that for?"
"Oh, she don't need to make such a fuss just because I wanted to make a few little old valentines."
Dewey left before Tommy had obeyed and been packed off to bed, sulking. Isabel jumped every time the telephone rang and turned each call to other members of the family disappointedly. Finally she went to bed. Janice had already gone, after scolding a little about the clothes she must wear the next day. Therese waited until there was no danger of interruption and then laid down her book.
"Mother," she began, "Dewey was asking me again tonight how soon we can be married. I've been wanting to talk to you about it for a long time, but—"
"Oh, Therese, must we go into that again tonight? This has been such a hard day for me. The evening has been terrible."
"They all are, Mother, and this thing has to be settled," said Therese with unprecedented callousness. "You've been putting us off so long." Alf looked at Therese keenly, but said nothing.
"You're plenty young yet, Therese. Nineteen is too young."
"I can't see what difference it makes so long as I am sure about Dewey. I'm a year older than I was last year, and it was all set then. We've waited a decent interval, and we have to have something definite to work toward. Besides, I'll either marry him soon or break with him. I think too much of him to keep him dangling."
"What was your idea, Therese?" said Alf quietly.
"Well, I did have an idea—of course, it's too late now—that a Valentine wedding would be beautiful. There are so many things you can do with decorations. Some of the girls want to give me showers, and I still think a valentine trousseau tea would be lovely."
Marian caught her breath. "I couldn't bear it. Have you forgotten that it was last Valentine night that Hervey. Was—" she paused, "and that he had a party that night? He jumped on his bike to go after someone he had forgotten to invite. He never came back." Marian was crying again.
"Oh yes, Mother. I truly had forgotten," said Therese contritely. "Oh, I'm sorry."
"I don't see how you ever could forget," Marian wept.
That night after they had gone to bed Marian wept again. She expected Alf to take her into his arms and comfort her, as usual, but he didn't. "The children are so thoughtless," she complained. "Tommy is getting so rude. They are all so selfish and self-centered. They don't seem to miss Hervey, nor to realize how I miss him. No one knows how I feel."
"Don't blame them too much. They are normal young people with their own lives to live. No one can stop them."
"Not even the loss of a brother," Marian couldn't help saying.
"We have living children," said Alf sharply. "There is more than one way to lose a child." He turned his back.
It was more than Marian could stand. The children, and now Alf! How true it was that a father couldn't feel the love that a mother could. Alf had never failed her before. In that minute she was certain that she had made a mistake in her marriage. She wept silently and didn't sleep for hours.
She was ill again when she awoke. She didn't get up to get breakfast. "They'll have to do the best they can. I just can't, feeling as I do." She was relieved when the house was silent. Her mind followed a well-worn track—a track that had its beginning and end in Hervey, his characteristics, his words, his tragic death. Around and around her thoughts flew, like birds in captivity. Her heart ached with an actual, physical pain, almost beyond the limit of endurance. It seemed, with the thoughtlessness of these others, that the only precious thing she had in life had been snatched from her.
She had an overwhelming desire to be nearer Hervey, and suddenly she thought of some notebooks he had given her at the end of his fifth grade year—his spelling book with not a single mistake, his Nature scrapbook with the "A plus" mark. They must be in the bottom of her trunk. She delved, piling the things on a chair. Only old treasures were kept here—her wedding dress of changeable white and blue taffeta, Alf's uniform with his overseas cap, his black box that he always kept locked. Marian had suspected, not without jealousy, it must contain keepsakes from former sweethearts. She put it on top of the precarious pile and bent into the trunk. With a clatter the black box fell, springing the lock and spilling its contents around her knees. Letters! She turned them over one by one. Without exception they were letters from her to Alf. He had saved every written word—her greeting cards and postcards. She read them all as the morning slipped by, and they revealed to her a girl, a bride, a young mother that she had long forgotten. And with revelation there came censure—her own censure of herself.
It came from scraps of letters, scraps of yesterday's conversation. "I must tell you of Isabel's birthday party. What a hospitable child she is, and how she sparkled with all that company! We must keep our home open to them always." That must have been that trip to Denver Alf took when Isabel was seven. "I wish you could see him. He has such an honest little chin. Do you think that some day he might be president?" That had been the awful time when Tommy was born and Alf had had to be away. And a little farther in the same letter: "We have such an ideal family. I think we might even crop out with an artist. Janice paints everything in sight with her crayons—and is amazing for a five-year-old." That hadn't been an idle prediction. What had happened to Janice's painting? It had been months since she'd thought of it.
The last one was a valentine addressed to Camp Lewis in 1918. On the back in her girlish hand: "I mean it. I offer you all my heart. How much longer will it be? Eternity is too short to spend with you." That February she had been nineteen! Poor Therese! Poor little Tommy! Fighting a world of enemies. Making his own pitiful valentines. "There's more than one way to lose a child," Alf had said. She looked at the clock. Twelve-thirty. There was time for a beginning.
"Oh, Mother! Who washed the curtains? May I have a party? How clean everything smells," enthused Isabel several hours later.
"I tell you what! Bring the crowd in for cake and punch Tuesday night after Mutual, but right now I want you and Therese to make out a list of guests for a Trousseau Tea on Valentine day," said Marian, and was rewarded by the glory that filled Therese's eyes.
"Great day!" sang Isabel. "Mother, you make the best suppers. I bet those mean old kids didn't have pie, and I'm glad. Mother, if I had Hervey they wouldn't dare beat up on me."
Tommy subsided at the warning glances from around the table.
"Indeed they wouldn't," said Marian, seeming not to notice. "Tommy, let's clear off the table and figure up how many valentines you have to have."
"Oh, boy!" Tommy obeyed with alacrity, and in a few minutes Janice approached them shyly. "Mother, have you time to look at something I painted to-day?"
All evening Alf's surprised eyes were on her. "I'm sorry, Marian, that I was rude last night," he said later. "Don't think I haven't noticed how much Tommy walks like Hervey. Sometimes it—" Poor Alf! Marian told him, then, about the letters and the valentine. "So you see, it's terribly clear to me how selfish grief can be. Not that I love or miss Hervey any the less, but I'm afraid I was more concerned about myself. Anyhow," she finished, "I'm glad Tommy'll get his valentines."

OLD VOLUMES
Weary of the winter, let us go to the fields Rejoicing in the power that the high sun wields. On the lifeless furrows he bends his ken, And multitudes of fruitful lives are born again.
But let us not envy him the might of his eye— We who can gaze at ink long dry, Printed by presses that are long since rust, And awake strong souls from the powerless dust.
In the barren, silent old volumes they lie; See them stir at the warmth of your eye— Hear them murmur like far-off thunder, The singers of beauty, the seers of wonder.
—Carlton Culmsee.

The Body's Need for Protein By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe Home Economics Department—University of Utah
In the previous article the body's need for heat and energy was discussed. The present article will consider the body's need for building materials. The reader will recall that one depends largely upon the sugars, starches, fats and to a lesser extent upon protein foods, such as milk, cheese, eggs, cereals and meat, for the heat and energy needed by the body. For growth and maintenance of body tissue one needs the above mentioned foods, but in addition water and the mineral salts are required. All of these building materials must be supplied in the food if the body is to grow and function normally. Next to water, protein composes the greatest proportion of the body tissue. The term "protein" is derived from a Greek verb meaning "to take first place". The word proteins is a group term covering a large number of foods which include the element nitrogen. Today we know much more about the growth and functioning of the body than was known when protein was assigned the "first place" in nutrition. However with this additional knowledge, protein foods still occupy a very important place.
Nature of Proteins
The proteins are essential constituents of every living cell, both plant and animal. No cell can be formed without the help of proteins. They make up the greater part of all the muscle tissue as well as the brain and nerve tissue. Proteins are important constituents of the blood and of the secretions of the various glands that have so much to do in regulating the functions of the body. Proteins are also used in the manufacture of the digestive juices. Proteins differ from our other foods—starches, sugars, and fats—in that they contain the element nitrogen. This important element is taken from the soil by the growing plants. Nitrogen, together with the water from the soil and the carbon dioxide from the air, is used by Nature to manufacture protein foods. The original source of all proteins is the vegetable kingdom. Man and animals eat the vegetable proteins and use them to build animal proteins which are used for the growth of body tissues and to perform the many other important functions assigned to them.
Protein is a very complex substance. There are many different kinds and sources of proteins. The animal proteins, such as milk, cheese, eggs and meat, are the principal sources. The cereals, because of being used in such large amounts, constitute an important source. There is a limited amount of protein in all fruits and vegetables. Proteins are made up of varying combinations and quantities of twenty-three amino acids or building stones each containing the important element nitrogen. All the amino acids have characteristics in common; yet each one is a distinct chemical unit. Borrowing Mary Swartz Rose's means of explaining the composition of proteins, one thinks of the amino acids as a large assortment of beads of twenty-three different colors and sizes and many of each kind in the collection: "To represent a protein we may select one sample of each of the different beads and arrange a figure; or we may take the same twenty-three amino acids, some kinds singly, others by threes or fours, perhaps some by the dozen and arrange another figure of quite a different pattern." Each figure will represent a certain protein and yet each will be very different in its composition. Some proteins contain all the amino acids, some only seventeen while others are made up of only ten or twelve amino acids. The writer is refraining from giving the scientific names of the amino acids as they are difficult to remember and would only be confusing.
Classification of Proteins
Each amino acid is an entity and has a special role in nutrition. No one of them can take the place of any other. They can, however, supplement each other. We speak of a protein that contains all of the amino acids, twenty-three of them, and each one in a sufficient amount, as a complete protein. Complete proteins are capable of maintaining growth and supporting new growth. Examples of complete proteins are: milk, cheese, eggs, lean meat, certain nuts and part of the protein in corn, wheat, and soy beans. Proteins are spoken of as "partially incomplete" when they are lacking in certain amino acids and are capable of maintaining growth but cannot support new growth. Part of the proteins in cereals are of this group. There is still another group known as "incomplete" which are incapable of either maintaining life or supporting growth when fed as the only protein. Gelatin and the zein in corn are the best examples. All of the proteins that are partially incomplete or incomplete are found almost entirely in the vegetable and cereal foods.
The fact that proteins differ in their amino acid make-up is not so serious as it may appear. Proteins have supplementary values and in our customary diets we combine proteins from the different groups, for example: one eats potatoes, an incomplete protein, with meat, a complete protein; macaroni with cheese; bread with milk; vegetables with meat, eggs or cheese, etc. Through these supplementary values all proteins may function as complete proteins.
Growth and Repair of Tissue Requires Protein
The adult does not store protein in his body, so that his need for this type of food is not so great as it was during growth when he was storing protein in the new tissue that was being formed. All living cells are undergoing changes as long as life lasts and are in constant need of repair or renewal. The food supply must carry this repair material to the blood stream. All of the proteins are broken down, through the processes of digestion, into their amino acids. As these amino acids are carried by the blood to the cells all over the body the ones that are needed for repair are utilized. In growing children it is not only a matter of repairing worn-out cells but of building new tissue; hence the need for protein food is much greater than for adults. A baby doubles its weight in six months and trebles it in one year. There is no time during the entire life cycle when growth is so rapid. Nature realized this and provided the best and most complete protein, milk, to supply the need for protein. Throughout the entire growth period the body requires a comparatively large amount of protein. Of the total amount needed at least one-half should be the complete proteins such as milk, cheese, eggs, and meat. These complete proteins combined with cereals and vegetables will make all of the proteins complete. It is interesting that long before we knew anything about the chemical or nutritional values of proteins such combinations became traditional.
Amount of Protein Needed by the Body
Studies made of protein consumption show a great variation in the amount consumed. Families with higher incomes consume a greater amount than those with lower incomes. Meat, milk and eggs are usually expensive sources of proteins and are used liberally where the budget will permit. Families of lower incomes use greater quantities of cereal and vegetable proteins, supplementing them with the cheaper cuts of meat. Milk is usually reduced to a minimum. The investigators are not agreed as to the best amount of protein, but it seems wise to avoid either extreme and to use a moderate amount. There are evils associated with either an excessive or an insufficient amount. Dr. Sherman, an outstanding authority in the field of Nutrition, recommends one gram per kilo of body weight, or in other words, one-half gram per pound. Since this standard is not practical for general use these simple suggestive menus for the day's protein may be followed:
FIRST DAY Food Amount Gram Protein Milk 1 pint 16 Cottage Cheese 1/4 cup 14 Liver 3"x5"x 2" 16 Bread 4 Slices 12 Total 58
SECOND DAY Food Amount Gram Protein Milk 1 pint 16 Pork chop 1 medium 17 Egg 1 7 Bread 4 Slices 12 Shredded Wheat 1 biscuit 3 Baked Beans 1/2 cup 7 Total 62
Most other foods usually appearing in the diet may be counted on to furnish small additional amounts of protein. Generally, if one includes in the daily diet one pint of milk, one average serving of lean meat, one other protein-rich food such as an egg, a serving of cheese, beans, etc., together with a serving of whole cereal, one will be assured of sufficient protein.
As stated above if the income is adequate, it is not difficult to supply a sufficient amount of protein when one may select freely from milk, lean meat, eggs and cheese, but when the budget is limited it is much more difficult to supply an adequate amount and still keep the diet palatable. The writer suggests that each mother send for a copy of "Diets at Four Levels of Nutritive Content and Cost," by Stiebeling and Ward, Circular 296, United States Department of Agriculture. This circular will suggest a good selection of foods to meet all the dietary requirements at different cost levels. The low-cost dietary will supply the protein from the food groups as follows:
Cereal products 31% Milk and cheese 31% Vegetables and fruits 15% Meat and eggs 18% Fats, sweets 5%
The Growing Child's Need for Protein
Since the principal function of protein is to build and repair tissue it is obvious that at no time in one's life is it as important to provide adequate protein in the diet as it is during the growing period. The child grows more rapidly during the first year, consequently its need per pound is greater than at any other time. Nature has recognized this need and has provided in mother's milk the best possible protein, lactalbumin. The superior quality of this protein meets the needs of the infant in a smaller amount than would be possible in artificially fed infants. Eggs are also a splendid source of protein for growing children. Lean meat, fish and cheese appear early in a growing child's diet. Whole cereals, well cooked and served with whole milk should enter into the daily diet of growing children. The protein allowance for growing children is higher according to their weight than that of adults and will be met if approximately a quart of milk is consumed daily. More eggs will enter into his diet, otherwise the suggestive protein diets for adults will serve as a guide for the growing child's diet. There is no dietary deficiency more rapidly noticeable in animal experimentation than a deficiency of protein foods. While it does not furnish so striking a picture in human nutrition, its evil effects are nevertheless present.
Muscular Activity and Protein Requirement
The common understanding that muscular activity is carried on at the expense of muscle tissue is not true. In extreme muscular activity, such as football or prizefighting, the muscles are actually enlarged, not torn down. What is needed for hard physical work is an additional amount of energy foods, not additional protein foods. When sufficient energy is provided for muscular activity there will be sufficient protein. There is no scientific reason for supplying more meat in the diet of the working man than of the man at the desk. Spring Thaw By Helen Martin HE smoke from the outside furnace fire rose black against the sun as Ernest Miller threw a pine log under the tubs of boiling water. Effie Miller, pouring brown, slightly smoky lard grease into the spotless buckets standing on the pantry shelf, glanced up as her husband's laughter and pleasant voice drifted in through the partly open window. She loved to hear his voice and to watch his precise movements as he went about the task of butchering an animal. He always knew exactly what he intended to do, and did it. Of course, he had had four years' training at State University in, as she laughingly said, "matters agricultural", but not all of his ability along this line was due to education. Something there was which mere education could not supply. Her attention was caught by the mailman closing the box at the end of the lane. Piling the rinds from the fat carefully in a bowl, she slid into her galoshes and sweater. Running up the lane she called to her husband, "Oo—Hoo Ernest! I'm off for the mail." Her trip back to the house was slower. She opened the single letter and read it as the crisp wind blew her hair around. The snow crunched under her feet. The conversation of her husband and the neighbor, whose pig he was butchering, stopped suddenly as she came up to them. "Funny," she thought quickly to herself as she tucked the letter in her pocket, "Funny how Ernest gets on with the neighbors; prosperous and poor alike look up to him and value his opinions, while with me they just shut up like clams." "Bad news?" asked her husband. "Must be, or you wouldn't have deep furrows in your brow." "Hope not," added the neighbor politely, but coldly. "Yes, itis bad news. Sister Sandra is ill, and with Ben on full-time work and the children in school there is no one to look after her. She's been used to hired help. Her family isn't used to doing for themselves. I guess they're in pretty much of a mess. At any rate Ben writes that they wish I could come in for a few days just to help get them straightened." "You'll do just that!" spoke up the neighbor warmly, almost too warmly. But the remark passed unnoticed as Effie turned into the house. She called over her shoulder to her husband, "Please hurry, Dear, [ll need some help if I'm to get everything done and packed to leave on the early evening train." Then as the thought struck her— "You think I better go don't you?" "Of course! Ill be through here in half an hour, then we'll get everything attended to so you can leave without a worry." Turning to the neighbor as Effie closed the door, he added, "She'd worry all the while she was gone if the house wasn't spotless and the pantry full." "There's some things more important," dryly observed the old man. "Take for instance, raising RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY children." I looked closely at Ernest as he spoke and was instantly sorry, as he saw the look that crossed the younger man's face. "Sorry," he muttered, "guess it's none o' my affair." "We'd have a family, but Effie feels that the country docsn't offer the opportunities for educating children that a city does. She won't hear of having a child until we can afford a small house in town as well as the farm" —he stopped suddenly as if he just remembered he was telling secrets not meant for gossip, and added quickly, "never you inind, some day welll have a family that will rival yours, Will. How's the youngest grandchild?" From here the conversation drifted off to general topics. THE electric sped on leaving the brown and grays of the village and darting into the midst of square patches of white fields which were broken here and there by clusters of willows and a few trees. The topped grain poking occasionally through the snow shone slightly yellow in the setting sun. Ahead, although still far off, the smoke of the approaching city hung like a threatening cloud over the 'valley. Effic's head hummed. The approach to the city always thrilled her. She loved its busy hustle, its crowds, its impersonal tolerance, and its everlasting noise. In spite of her sister Sandra's illness she couldn't help leaning forward in anticipation. There would be no talk here of how many calves were being fed, no endless "quilting bees" with the sharp gossipy tongues wagging, no one watching every move she made with an eye to its value as future material for conversation. Here in the city her marriage to the genial Ernest would have been readily accepted, but only briefly noticed. In the village it was deeply resented. What right had she, a city girl, to come into the village and, after two years' teaching in the smal! High school, marry the most socially and financially eligible young man in town? The familiar yellow and black cab stood by the entrance to the station. She gave the driver Ben and Sandra's address and sat back to enjoy the trip through the center of town. Lights—slush—horns—bustle — she loved it all. If it weren't for the worry over her sister she would really have enjoyed the entire trip. The cab stopped by a large town house and Effie got out, paid the driver, grabbed her suitcase and rushed up the steps to ring the bell. But no Ben answered the bell. Instead a burly gentleman barked, "Well, Sister? What is it?" "T--I thought this was the home of Mr. And Mrs. Benjamin Christensen," gasped Effie. "Sorry, Sister. They lost it over two months ago. We took up their mortgage. 'They're living down town somewhere. My wife's put their address away, but I don't know where." Effie pulled Ben's letter out of her purse. Sure enough there on the first page was the new address underlined. She had missed this detail in her worry over the contents of the letter. "May I use your telephone to call a cab?" she asked. "Sure thing, Sister. Help yourself. It's here in the hall." Pacing up and down the street 102 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Effie awaited the arrival of the cab. Strange, Sandra had never hinted in her letters that there was so much wrong with them. Of course, she had written that Ben had lost his supposedly permanent position and had only lately obtained something which, though not in his line, would be a beginning again. The cab arrived and urging' the driver to hurry across town they went through the lights, slush, horns, and bustle to an apartment house of ancient vintage. In the dim hall of the apartment house she looked over the mail boxes hunting for the one that held the name of Ben and Sandra. Three flights up she hurried and back to the last door in the hall. She rang the bell. Ben answered. The worried look on his face gave way to a half smile as he saw Effie. "Come in, come in! Gee, am I glad to see you!" he greeted her. "This isn't the big house, but you are just as welcome as if it were. Give me your bag and coat and then, please, go right in to San. I just told her today that I had sent for you." N a bed in the small bedroom lay Sandra pale and listless, hair stringy, and nails unkempt. So unlike the smart, well-groomed sister Effie remembered that the difference brought her up short. Trying to hide her surprise and shock she gently grasped her sister's hand, "Darling, I'm so sorry you're ill. You should have written me sooner. I could have come any time." Tears running down her pale cheeks, Sandra sobbed, "I couldn't, I just couldn't. It was my pride I suppose. You don't know how hard it is to come down to this after all I've been used to. Dear, I'm so glad you are here! You were always a good manager. You can help us if anyone can." Effie looked around—so much to do—house mussy—boxes piled in the corer. Sandra must have been ailing for a long time; she must get tight busy. 'These thoughts rushed through her mind. Then she became more human. 'These people had worried and suffered. It could even be seen in the eyes of ten-year-old Billy and fourteen-year-old Susan, as they stood in the doorway and watched her. "Say, I'm starved. I see dinner's on the table, why don't we eat? Billy, open my bag, you'll find a sack of your favorite cookies. They will go good with whatever we're eating." The potatoes were watery, the meat tough, the cookies didn't help the cocoa much! Ignoring these Effie kept up a string of conversation. She told them all the funny things that had happened on the farm. How the new calf wobbled. How Emest and she had gone skiing and how she tumbled half way down the hill. After dinner Effie became impractical for the first time in her life. Strangely she felt the need of this family for a mental lift rather than a physical one. She laughingly said, "Let's not even worry about these dishes tonight. Let's just relax." So she kept up her high spirits. The faces of all of them relaxed and wore smiles as Effie rolled into the pull-out bed with Susan. Bill and his father had been using the pullout. Effie helped them make a lark out of sleeping on the floor. The next day being Saturday the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - children did not have to go to school. Ben worked a half day. Effie and the children working together and making a high game of everything soon got the small apartment in ship shape. Going through the shelves in the very small kitchen, Effie realized just how bad things were. She found beans, a few eggs, one square of butter, part of a loaf of bakery bread, some sacks containing a little macaroni, some brown sugar, and a handful of rice—only these! How different from her own pantry! Her shelves were filled with many things found on the country table: bacon, eggs— plenty of them, jams, jellies and numberless cans of fancy "city food". Then there was her basement: bottles of fruit, vegetables, meats, bins of apples, potatoes, carrots, cabbage and onions. In the cooler stood lovely rich milk, butter and cream. She had never really appreciated these things so much as she did now, realizing how difficult it must be to keep house without them. She must bring herself to the task - of finding just how bad Sandra's condition was. Most important she must find some way to bring them all out of their mentally depressed state. It wouldn't do to have this going on longer. Of course, she didn't know just what was wrong with Sandra, but with half an eye she could see that she was underfed and terribly worried. Well, she would have all those problems out with Ben when he came home in the afternoon. IN the afternoon Effie sent the children out to skate on the ice in the park. Sandra under the influence of Effie's kind rubbing and her nourishing lunch, dozed off into a restful sleep. Ben and Effie sat down at the kitchen table to settle the many problems facing this unhappy family. First, and easiest settled, was Sandra's condition. Ben said the doctor had given her a number of examinations to determine just what the trouble was. It had been decided that she was just generally run down and worn out, with her nerves a complete wreck. "So you see," Ben pointed out, "she needs rest, good food, and fresh air. 'Then when she is stronger, if she will have her tonsils out, the doctor feels that she will be almost new again." "We will settle this first," insisted Effie. "She will come home with me. You and the children can manage alone. In the country she will get all of the things she needs. We have a good doctor who can take care of her tonsils. Now let us get on to the other worries." In going over the financial figures they found that Ben had been able to save a fair equity out of the big house, but it had been used for the purchase of other unproductive property. Ben told Effie how they had stored their furniture, because Sandra couldn't bear to part with it. She couldn't give up the idea of sometime coming back to her old place. However, since they had been snubbed so much by their old friends, Sandra had lost interest in going back. He told her that even the apartment was too expensive when he considered his present salary, especially when he kept the children in their schools. 104 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE With a sweeping hand it was decided to sell all of the furniture except that which was needed. The equity was to be put into a small place in the suburbs, one that had a chicken coop and room for a small kitchen garden. Then the children were to leave their private schools and enroll in the public school nearest their new home. 'Togcther Effie and Ben went over and over his salary to budget it to the best possible advantage. 'They finally arranged things so that Ben wouldn't have to drop his insurance; the children wouldn't have so many clothes, but they would get along very well if they were careful. Standing up, stretching his legs, straightening his shoulders, Ben said, "I feel like a man let loose from a trap. I have been so stunned by everything that I haven't been able to think. When I remember how we held on to that large house, hoping things would change and wasting money, I could kick myself. Now I'm going out to hunt the best suburban house at the most reasonable price I can find. It'll be 'grand for the children. I know I'm going to be happier." As he was putting on his overcoat Ben turned to Effie, "Say, please, will you forgive me? I've always figured you a sort of 'high and mighty' person. You're a 'peach.' Believe me I’ll not forget it soon." A WEEK later Effie and her sister left on the electric for the farm. As the country scenes slid by Effie remembered Ben's words — "high and mighty" person — maybe that was what everyone ir the village thought. That was her trouble! She looked down on people—not on a level with them. The country seemed unusually lovely. 'The February winds were melting the snow, and here and there the road showed black. The mud looked deep, rich and sticky. She loved it. How she loved it! The city had lost its glamor. She knew now that it was the way a person lived not where he lived that made him happy. It was a spring thawing. Her pride and heart and the country were thawing together. "We're staying thawed out too," Effie spoke out loud. "Thawing what?" asked her sister. "Nothing—or everything—I don't realize what I'm saying I'm so happy to be going home. Oh see, Sandra, there is the village! Isn't it lovely! There is even a little green grass to the south of the big trees. It ls a real spring thaw!" YZ IN How Psychology can Help Me as an Adult By Mark K. Allen, Psychologist, Utah State Training School (Address, Relief Society Conference, Oct. 4, 1938) CENTRAL theme of Latter-day Saint philosophy is that the spirit of man is eternal and that it progresses through the experiences it undergoes. 'The improvement of self through service to others becomes the great aim of life, since this improvement fits one better for the service he is to render. In the life to come. But we need not think of eternal progress in vague and abstract terms: rather we should think of it as the daily improvement of habits, the acquiring of new information and outlooks, and the acquisition of new skills. We prepare ourselves for eternity to the extent that we succeed in getting along well with people, spread happiness into the lives of others, and mutually assist each other in reaching a higher plane of living, as well as in complying with the more formal requirements of the Church. Formation and revision of habits is one way of moving in the direction suggested above. Habits are formed only as there is incentive to acquire them. Three steps are necessary for the acquiring of a new habit: first, ect a clear conception of the goal of the habit you wish to form and a clear idea of the reasons why you think it is important; then, analyze the results of your efforts to determine exactly what methods: lead most directly to the goal; and finally, repeat the proper acts as often as possible once they have been recognized.- "Good intentions" are not always enough to form good habits; we must make sure the habits we are to form are important, and not simply mental gymnastics to show that we can do what we set out to do. Likewise, we should not undertake tasks that are too new to us, but rather choose habits which are necessary and which we feel morally certain we can achieve. Choose habits that are concrete and definite, not generalities like abstract "goodness". Many a person's will is paralyzed because he has formed the vicious habit of trying to form new habits and to do tasks that are too difficult and which force him to fail. The power to do, or will power, grows by our successes more than by our failures. We need not think of the formation and revision of habits as being something only for the young. Popular opinion as to the inability of adults to learn is in error. Recent experiments have shown that there is very little decline in learning ability from one's twenties until after one's sixties. New tasks can actually be learned as well by people in middle life as at any other time, provided the incentive is there. Unfortunately, many adults lack the incentive to take up new endeavors,—new skills, subject matter, and outlooks. People differ greatly in the way they change with age, just as they differ in intelligence or personality; but speaking of most people, there is no need for discouragement as to the mature person's ability to learn almost as well as he did when he was young., In fact, faith that one is able to continue his progress gives a kind of 106 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hope which itself promotes learning. "Keeping one's hand in" learning activities helps us to keep plastic and adaptable to new conditions, partly because it keeps up our confidence in our learning ability. 'This ability to make changes in one's life as needed is very valuable as old age approaches. Habits must then be revised according to new physical needs, changing conditions in the home as the children marry, and other changes in the home picture. Old age need not be a period of despair and unhappiness provided one has made the changes that are required, and provided that new interests are acquired to fill up vacancies left by the marriage of the children. WE are told by modern psychology that learning has much to do with the way we react emotionally. Emotional habits are among the most important we have, since they relate so closely to our ability to get along with people and the general happiness-tone of our lives. Emotions have a physical basis which makes them linger sometimes after the condition which gives rise to them has been removed. 'Thus, we say people "get out on the wrong side of the bed," or they go around "with a chip on their shoulder'. When we are in an emotional state, we are likely to make the wrong response to new situations which arise. For example, after we have had a rather unsatisfactory argument with someone, we are likely to proceed to the next contact we have with people in an argumentative mood which is likely to lead us into more difficulties. A chemical substance, adrenalin, is poured into our blood which persists for some time after an anger or fear emotion, which may help to account for this "hanging on" feeling after the danger or provocation has been removed. We become angry or afraid when circumstances get out of control. When someone frustrates our plans, we generally become angry. The mental result of anger is the reduction of intelligent control; hence, we say "he is blind with anger". The emotion of anger in primitive times had a valuable place in combat, in that it increased physical endurance and power. But in modern life, we seldom must meet anger situations with combat. We have cultivated our emotional life until we more often fight with words than with fists. In modern living our emotional reactions must be more brainy, more intelligent, if they are not to lead us into difficulties. To gain control of our emotions we must delay our reactions until we can take an intelligent look at what is required. Intelligent control of our emotions is one of the best signs of emotional maturity, of being truly grown up. Fear is much like anger in its physical basis and in its relation to intelligent action. While in anger the usual response is that of attack or ageression, in fear the response is that of withdrawal or retreat. We fight when we are angry and run when we are afraid. But in modern society again, running from the things we fear is not always required, because today we fear physical dangers less than loss of security in the love of others, or economical security, for example. Nevertheless, even in fears of this kind we most often have a tendency to withdraw, not to want to know the "awful truth". Fear is based on uncertainty and lack of knowledge of what is going to happen, or, knowing what is to hap- ~ pen, not knowing how to prevent it. Knowledge is the best antidote in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY either case. To dissipate fears of any kind we should investigate, find out all of the facts. Often this convinces us that there is nothing to fear; in other cases it fortifies us to meet the inevitable, and in still other cases it leads to ways of avoiding the impending danger. THE great test of how one has succeeded in revising his habits, in gaining control over his emotions, appears in the ability to get along with people. To get along with others we must recognize that they have egos as well as we do. Consideration for the happiness of others generally redounds to one's own happiness. Learn to recognize the hobbies and enthusiasms of others if you would get along with them. People with inferiority feelings often have difficulty getting along with people because they are too absorbed in themselves to be generous with praise and recognition of the interests of others. Marriage is the great testing ground for personality. Here all of the virtues and flaws of one's nature are brought into full view. Poor emotional control makes marriage difficult, and so does the inability to change one's habits to conform to the new ways of life which are inevitable when marriage is undertaken. Many marital difficulties are the result of failure to grow up emotionally—children unable to go alone without the help of their parents, and parents who are unwilling to let the child grow to full maturity and find his or her own way. Training for happy married life should begin in the cradle. Marriage is a very complex relationship, and the causes of discord are legion. Dr. Terman of Stanford has recently published the results of an interesting study on marriage in which he investigated thoroughly the personalities of a large number of couples who were happy in marriage and compared them with a large number of divorced couples. He found that among the factors which contribute to happiness in marriage were the following: having had happy parents, a happy childhood, firm but not harsh home discipline, parents who were frank about sex, and the possession of happy temperament. - Factors which he found contributed to unhappy marriages were the following: unhappy temperament, too much difference between the intelligence of the husband and wife, wife's slovenly appearance, and sexual incompatability. Happiness in marriage is perhaps the most important preparation for eternal progress, as well as contentment throughout this life. Children are, of course, an important part of the picture. In later maturity children and happy home life are often the means of fighting off a feeling of emptiness and despair. THE problem of marriage involves many other persons besides those who are parties to the marriage. One of our most difficult tasks in later maturity is that of being a good mother-in-law. If a young person is properly trained emotionally through childhood and adolescence, the "mother-in-law" problem would not be a serious one. This is the problem of emotional weaning. The mother must gradually permit the child to assume mature status without too much interference. She can do this only by exercising great emotional control herself, because to step aside and see the child throw off his cr her dependence upon her is not an easy task. Training for this weaning should begin in child- 108 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hood and should be almost complete by the end of adolescence. In some cases missions or a period at school away from home are valuable in bringing about the transition from youth into maturity. When weaning is not complete, there is likely to be much interference on the part of the parent after the child is married, and this interference has made mothers-in-law famous as the object of all kinds of jokes. A few suggestions are offered as to what a mother-in-law can do to promote a happy married life for her child: (1) substitute the "companion attitude" for the "mother attitude," and avoid taking a prominent place in the new household by living there or dictating what to do; (2) keep out of the quarrels of the child with his or her "in-laws"; (3)guard against gaining personal emotional satisfaction by being too lavish and over-solicitous with the grandchildren; (4) be courageous in accepting the fact that your child has transferred his or her major affection to someone else. These are a few of the ways in which science tries to aid in the solving of human problems. We have tried to make the doctrine of progress concrete and real, to show that it consists of making good adjustments to everyday needs, and to emphasize that progress is possible by aiming at attainable personal improvement and intelligently pursuing these well defined goals. NOT FOREVER SAD The trees once green, then red, then brown, stand naked on the hill, The stream that whispered as it ran, is frozen at the rill, The field where waved the golden grain, is naught but stubble now, The gentle wind that sang in May, is but a dismal sough; The lad that gathered daisies in a meadow far away Is lonely, oh, so lonely! Now his golden hair is grey. But the trees are getting ready to bud again in spring, The stream below the ice has not forgotten how to sing, The field where waved the golden grain is resting for a day, And the wind that howls like a fiend will sing again next May; The lad that gathered daisies, in his soul is still a lad, There's nothing in this life can make a man forever sad. —Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy. HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon FEBRUARY—Love notes in lacy valentines do oft portend Affections deeper far than "Just a friend". PEARL BUCK, with 110 other notable guests, sat at a banquet table in the royal castle in Stockholm on December 11 and received from the hands of King Gustav himself the Nobel prize for the greatest contribution to literature. The prize, beside the Nobel medal was $37,975. What the emotions of this modest woman were can only be imagined. The prize was for no single book but the entire body of the author's work. No other author has ever brought before the world so much knowledge of China and her people. DOROTHY THOMPSON, popular commentator, in a recent broadcast gave an amusing dissertation on women's hats. She cleverly demonstrated that the best dressed women are those who wear becoming clothes, regardless of fashion, a fact so poignantly told by two leading couturiers in their books, "Designing Women" and "Fashion is Spinach". OMEN of Rumania may be called to military service and mobilized in case of war according to a recent government decree.  MARY PICKFORD, piquant, charming as ever, gives the following explanation of her youthful looks, "Time is the noise the clock makes and means nothing else to? SVANHILDE LARSON, daughter of a Norwegian skipper, as her father's ship was floundering to destruction in a stormy sea, clung to a broken mast and sang all the songs she knew over and over to keep the sailors working until all were rescued. JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH and Elizabeth H. Peery, two notable Utah women, died during the holiday season. Both were daughters of pioneers and active in state and Church work. ZONA GALE, a popular novelist and winner of the Pulitzer prize in 1921, died last December. MARGARET SANGER'S "Woman of Destiny," an autobiogtaphy, Anne Parish's "Mr. Despondency's Daughter," and the lovely new story "Song of Years'' by Bess Streeter Aldrich are new novels for 1939. SA JOHNSON having lost her suit against the Western Air Express for the death of her husband, Martin Johnson, will have to postpone her hunting trip to Fast Africa for some time. KATHARINE HEPBURN in "Holiday," Alice Brady in "Old Chicago," and Wendy Hiller in "Pygmalion," are listed by New York critics as best actresses for 1938. Radio Message By Kate M. Barker (Station KSL, Monday, December 19, 1938) —IT is a joyous thing to have our feeling of thanksgiving and praise expressed in such beautiful music. It is a call to each of us to "light our torches and mount the heights'. To be part of a world getting ready for Christmas is a wonderful experience, for Christmas is a kind and charitable time, a loving, forgiving time. Men and women the world over, wherever the spirit of Christ has entered, are getting ready for Christmas, moved by a common impulse, exhibiting a common joy. Little children are looking forward to Christmas with faces radiant with expectation, with glowing exquisite dreams, because of the faith and hope and love which is theirs. This faith and hope and love is the real spirit of Christmas, and all who have this real spirit face life and the future with the same light in their eyes and the same expectation in their hearts. How grateful we are that, "God so loved the world that He gave. His only Begotten Son." How grateful we are for the testimony of the Son that, "Though a man dic yet shall he live." How grateful we are for the glorious promise, "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest." Can we do less to show our gratitude than by heeding His plea, "By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to another." Paul, one of the most learned men of his day, came to this conclusion, "Though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I can remove mountains, and have not charity I am nothing. And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity." These are the things which endure, these are the things which fill all hearts if we have the true Christmas spirit. Because of the faith and hope and love in our hearts we, the women of Relief Society the world over, at this Christmas time, rededicate our lives to the work of the Master, pledging ourselves to labor with renewed zeal to make life around us more noble, richer, more fruitful and sweet. We stand at the threshold of a new year with an aspiration, a purpose, a prayer that we may so grow in spiritual sensitiveness that we may sense the needs and have the inspiration to meet the needs; that if there is a kind word that should be spoken we may speak it; if there is one soul who needs encouragement, help or comfort, we may give it; if there is need for a testimony, we may bear it. This is our best gift, our gold and frankincense and myrrh, which we offer to Him whose birth we celebrate.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
LOUISE YATES ROBISON - President AMY BROWN LYMAN - First Counselor KATE M. BARKER - Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD Jennie B. Knight, Editor Emma A. Empey, Manager Annie Wells Cannon, Assistant
Nettie D. Bradford Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford
Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker
Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Ida P. Beal
Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow Belle S. Spafford Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
Vol. XXVI FEBRUARY, 1939 No. 2
EDITORIAL
Advertising Influence
Among the many influences which affect the behavior of people today perhaps none is more potent than modern advertising. We buy this brand of foodstuffs, that make of car, we go to see this particular entertainment and read that certain book, because consciously or unconsciously we have been affected by the advertising of these special things. Modern advertising has become a great and important part of American life, drawing to it the most talented and well trained individuals of our day, men and women cognizant of its power to mould opinion and influence conduct. The advertising mediums of our day are many and varied: the newspaper, the screen, billboards, magazines, radio, electric signs—all educational mediums, far reaching, up-to-date, and well financed. What person planning a purchase does not look at the ads in his morning paper? What person does not give attention to the attractively prepared ads in his magazines? Who is not conscious of the sponsor and the product behind his favorite radio program? The very best in music, art, drama, education, the most sparkling wit, and entertaining comedy come to us through the medium of advertising. With ears tuned to popular trends, fads, and interests the advertiser is alert effectively to capitalize upon these to influence the public to use his special product or commodity. Catch phrases, theme songs, slogans, easily remembered and pointed in meaning, unconsciously and without effort stay with the hearer identified with the item advertised, and definitely influence his attitudes and conduct.
Advertising has great constructive power; that it should be used detrimentally is regrettable. Yet every day it is being used to further commercial interests by popularizing products injurious to our young manhood and womanhood. Too often before the youth of our nation ads, striking in attractiveness, present in an enticing and convincing way the benefits, the pleasures, and the satisfactions of using this or that brand of tobacco or liquor. That these ads accomplish their purpose is proven by the marked increase in the use of liquor and tobacco by both men and women, and by the fact that constantly increasing millions are being spent to advertise these commodities. Advertisers are keen business men, and unless the millions spent were increasing sales, they would discontinue such expenditures. Each sale increase means increased use of those things which science and the word of God have said are not good for us.
Much advertising is of such a nature that one scarcely realizes that tobacco and liquor are being advertised. A recent broadcast capitalized upon the popular interest in adequate dietary requirements of youth, intimating that tobacco treated in a certain manner contained elements essential to health. A magazine advertisement pictured a doctor of medicine, in the attitude of consultation, prescribing tobacco for a young woman, as a step toward happiness, with health implied. This shrewd advertisement implicated the medical profession in its scheme to induce young people to form the tobacco habit.
There are many excellent federal and state regulations aiming to control advertising evils, to insure the presentation of true statements, and to protect the consumer. But that these need to be extended and rigidly enforced with regard to the sister evils of tobacco and liquor, there is not the slightest doubt. The power of money behind these evils, however, makes improved legislation difficult. A few of the laws of the State of Utah with regard to liquor advertising are of interest:
"(b) No advertisement of any alcoholic beverage or light beer shall suggest the absence of harmful effect, or the presence of healthful or therapeutic effect, resulting from the use thereof.
"(c) No advertisement of any alcoholic beverage or light beer shall include, be connected with, or make any reference to the conducting of any form of contest, or the awarding of prizes, premiums or considerations, or refer to any testimonial, or scientific test, proving the absence of harmful effect or the presence of healthful or therapeutic effect of the products so advertised.
"(d) No advertisement of any alcoholic beverage or light beer shall include the likeness or caricature of a woman, child, or a family scene; an illustration of men drinking; an illustration of groups of men that might be interpreted as drinking scenes; an illustration of anything which might be interpreted as having any association with children, particularly children's pets, nor any illustration of fruits or agricultural products, unless such illustrations be a part of a trade-mark or label already in use, in which case a replica of the entire trade-mark or label only, shall be permitted.
"(f) No advertisement of any alcoholic beverage or light beer shall contain any reference to any person, firm or corporation, real or fictitious, as one who recommends, uses, or purchases such product.
"(k) No advertisement of alcoholic beverages including light beer shall be displayed upon the screen of any theatre.
"(l) No advertisement of alcoholic beverages including light beer shall be made by or through the sale or distribution of novelties such as matches, score cards, lighters, blotters, post cards, calling cards, business or professional cards, menu cards, pencils, coasters, meal checks, napkins, clocks, calendars or similar articles or cocktail recipes or any other recipes or formulas for the use of such products. Any mention of brand name, code number or sale price shall be considered a violation of this section."
Excellent as the laws of Utah are in this regard they do not control periodicals published in other states.
Public opinion concerning the use of liquor tends to sway back and forth. At one time people were aroused to such an extent that prohibition on a national scale was accomplished. At first it looked as though it would succeed, but before long public opinion swayed in the other direction resulting in repeal. With repeal the liquor interests began to advertise. More people than could possibly make a living stepped into the industry; then a bold attempt was made to step up consumption. Now the pendulum of public opinion is swinging toward limitation and greater regulation. Cognizant of this the liquor interests have changed their method of approach, attempting to meet the rising tide of indignation with regard to excessive use of liquor by pacifying and lulling into inaction all who favor temperance or abstinence by apparently shouldering arms in the interest of temperance. One of the cleverest and most subtle attempts calculated to advertise the interests of a certain company along this particular plan was the national tour made by a famous "hero of youth," who gave lectures in the interest of temperance, recommending only limited drinking. The name of the company sponsoring the tour and its commodity was thus favorably kept before the public. Much advertising follows this plan. By indicating an interest in temperance, attention is cunningly attracted and favor won for the company and its particular product.
That there are still certain periodicals and newspapers public spirited enough and genuinely interested in the development of a strong, clean citizenship to refuse to accept liquor ads in their publications is deeply appreciated by the Relief Society organization which represents 76,000 mothers. From a letter to our office from Walter D. Fuller, President of the Curtis Publishing Company, we quote: "We do not accept advertising of liquor in our publications." A full-page statement in the December, 1938, issue of the Ladies Home Journal outlines the attitude of this large and influential publishing company. The caption in bold type states, "Sorry, we prefer not to introduce him (liquor) to our guests." Further it states, "It is a common courtesy not to receive guests in your home who might embarrass other guests... Influence some of them to their detriment.... We will not try to influence you (our guests) by taking liquor advertising." Our local papers, the Deseret News, the Salt Lake Tribune, and the Salt Lake Telegram are to be highly complimented for taking the same stand. The refusal has undoubtedly cost these concerns many thousands of dollars in recent years. Our Relief Society Magazine accepts no advertising that is not strictly in keeping with Latter-day Saint standards. We urge our subscribers to exercise every effort to discountenance all advertising detrimental to human welfare, actively to support those organizations whose standards are our standards, and to protect our children in every possible way from the subtle and constantly increasing influences which we know undermine health and character.
Julia Murdock Farnsworth
The passing of Sister Julia Murdock Farnsworth at her home in Salt Lake City, December 27, 1938, removed from our midst a choice spirit and a beloved and admired Latter-day Saint woman. Sister Farnsworth, mother of our present General Secretary, Julia A. F. Lund, devoted many years of her life to advancing the work of the Relief Society organization, serving as a member of the General Board from April 4, 1899, to April 2, 1921. She often said that next to her own family the Relief Society held her love. It is not strange that this would be true. The motivating spirit of Relief Society, love of God and love of humanity, motivated her life. The following message taken from Volume II of the Relief Society Magazine, published in 1915, and sent as a greeting to the Relief Society sisters by Sister Farnsworth is typical of her:
"We as the children of one great Eternal Parent, in this big world of ours, are cemented by a bond of common interest, a tie of universal love, if we cultivate our affections unselfishly, if we follow the teachings of our Savior, 'Do unto others as we wish to be done by'. For as every star in the firmament tends to light up the heavens by night, so will each good deed, noble life, and worthy thought of our Latter-day Saint women assist in brightening, bettering and glorifying the name of our Heavenly Father's people, for such we profess to be."
Sister Farnsworth did not confine her activities to her Church, she was also prominently identified with the educational and literary development of Utah. A charter member of the Daughters of the Revolution she was also one of the founders of the Daughters of the Pioneers and of the Daughters of the Mormon Battalion. Her charm, intelligence, and love of humanity made her one of the beloved and valuable women of the Church and state. We extend to Sister Lund and to the other members of her family our gratitude for the life of their mother and invoke the blessings of our Heavenly Father upon them in their time of sorrow.
"Education is essentially the process of discovering the values of life.... Unless education places the higher and more spiritual values first, we must expect distorted human characters and social disaster to result. We cannot sow the wind without reaping the whirlwind."—Charles A. Ellwood, Professor of Sociology, Duke University.
Items of Interest
NEW BOOKS
Priesthood And Church Welfare
This is a new book published by the Deseret Book Company. It is a study course for the quorums of the Melchizedek Priesthood for the year 1939, prepared under the direction of the Council of the Twelve by Dr. George Stewart, Dr. Dilworth Walker, and E. Cecil McGavin. It has been prefaced by Rudger Clawson, President of the Council of the Twelve, and from that preface we quote:
"The Latter-day Saints' Welfare Plan, divinely inspired, is now under way—in the wards, stakes and missions of the Church. The rate of its progress will depend to a large degree upon the actual support given it by the Quorums of the Priesthood. It seemed wise, therefore, to devote the quorum class periods for one year to a consideration of the meaning, problems and opportunities of the Plan....
"The fact that several authors, with different styles of treatment, have presented the main phases of the subject, should make this study course more interesting.
"The Priesthood should be acquainted with the material contained in this study course. It has permanent value, and the volume could profitably be found in every Latter-day Saint library. It is earnestly hoped that the labors here presented may be acceptable to the Lord and useful to the body of the Priesthood.
"May the blessings of the Lord rest upon the Priesthood of Latter-day Israel."
The Welfare Plan, its organization and functions, are all very clearly explained, and it contains lessons on such subjects as: "The Power Of Self-Help", "The Strength Of Cooperation", "Thrift", "The Bondage Of Debt", "Our Natural Resources," "Making Old Things New" and "Temporal Salvation". In addition to the above lessons there are many others of equal interest and importance which can help us and our families to establish ourselves as independent, self-sustaining, happy members of a cooperative community made up of our own ward or branch members.
The Life Of Joseph F. Smith
"The Life Of Joseph F. Smith", a new book compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, and distributed by the Deseret Book Company, is of interest to Latter-day Saints. This book is not only a biography of a man great from every point of view but covers a period of Church history when the opinion of the world was in transition from misunderstanding and blind hatred of the Church and its teachings to one of understanding and admiration. It reveals the place of President Joseph F. Smith in helping to bring about this transition through his manifest greatness and goodness of character and his unusual leadership abilities. Much light is thrown on Church doctrine through a recording of many of the words of this remarkably spiritual man. Of particular value is the official statement, "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the World," recorded in the latter part of the book. The fore part of the book deals with the ancestry of Joseph F. Smith and furnishes an interesting and comprehensive background for an understanding of his character. In the "Introduction" the following statement is of interest to mothers:
"The impression made upon his soul through the humble and unwavering fidelity of his mother to the cause of truth, became a sure and safe anchor to his soul through all the trials and vicissitudes of his eventful life. Well could he say: 'Nothing beneath the Celestial Kingdom can surpass my deathless love for the sweet, noble soul who gave me birth—my own, own, mother. She was true! She was pure! She was indeed a Saint; a royal daughter of God! To her I owe my very existence as also my success in life, coupled with the favor and mercy of God.'"
The book, prepared primarily for the benefit of the descendants of President Joseph F. Smith, presents him not only as a great religious leader but as a genuinely good husband and father. The careful attention to accuracy of detail, characteristic of other writings of the author, also characterize this new book. "The Life of Joseph F. Smith" is interesting and profitable reading for any one.
Magazine Drive
In reporting the Eastern States Mission on the Honor Roll, published in the December issue, the following branches were omitted:
Branch Net Enrollment Subscriptions Per Cent Binghampton 4 4 100 Fairview 14 14 100 Scranton 4 4 100
Errors were made in reporting four branches. Correct figures are as follows:
Branch Net Enrollment Subscriptions Per Cent Altoona 5 7 140 Buffalo 6 13 217 Canandaigua 5 7 140 Pittsburgh 20 23 115
Notes From The Field By Julia A. F. Lund
California Mission
One of the musical features of the October Conference was the 200 voices of the Singing Mothers from the California Mission. Five numbers were rendered at the first General Secretary and the Mission Relief Society President, who traveled through the entire Mission from Southern Arizona to the northernmost woods of the Sierras of California. These groups assembled in one chorus for the first public session, Wednesday afternoon, October 5th.
"Gathered from all parts of the Mission, with but two brief rehearsals, they were quickly welded into an harmonious chorus by the dynamic leadership of Evangeline Thomas Beesley, with Tabernacle organist Wade N. Stephens at the organ.
"These Singing Mothers had been organized into groups and trained by Nelle Lesueur MacDonald time when they reached Salt Lake, bringing to Zion the spirit of the mission field.
"Throughout the summer, these groups held dinners and parties to raise money to meet the expenses of the trip to Conference. Many stirring stories could be told of their efforts, sacrifices, and devotion to their cause, of how families and homes had to be left, of how husbands and neighbors worked to make possible the trip for many mothers who could not have attended otherwise.
"Following the session where these mission singers sang their spiritual numbers, a special session in the Salt Lake Temple was arranged, with more than 300 Saints from California, Arizona, and Nevada participating. A stirring testimony meeting concluded the Temple session, and it was a day long to be remembered by the California Mission.
"Continued enthusiasm is being manifest since their return to their scattered branches, and the joy, thrills, and spirit of the General Conference is being felt throughout the mission.
"They are to be congratulated upon this achievement. They will long remember and appreciate the opportunity and privilege of singing in the great Tabernacle, made possible by the generous invitation of President Louise Y. Robison."
South Sanpete Stake
A very encouraging account of the educational work and the general program of activities comes from the South Sanpete Stake. Particular attention is called to the new course of study. Quoting from one of the letters: "The response from the young mothers is most gratifying. We feel confident it will bring new life and enthusiasm into the stake work. The sewing center is a new venture of which we are justly proud. It operates three days a week. From 8 to 12 women attend each day. Some of them have never sewed a seam before and are being taught how to do it really well. We appreciate anew the saying of President Robison, 'We work with women, not for them'. We are trying to stimulate the membership drive in various ways. Large posters patterned after the one displayed from the Long Beach Stake have been made for each ward, with spaces for each year until 1942. These posters are placed in the ward with the thought in mind that the members who see the comparative report of each of the wards will be eager to interest and enlist others."
Moapa Stake
An account of the work in Moapa Stake Relief Society brings to mind the wide diversity of interests which our Relief Society program fosters. While this stake is active in all branches of the work, the account of the Logandale Ward Relief Society program, which was held in honor of Nevada's admission to the Union, is most interesting. This was one of a series given as a part of the Sesqui-Centennial celebration of the adoption of the Constitution of the United States. The first one of the series was held in 1937. This dealt with the drafting and signing of the Constitution in 1787. The second was given in 1938 and was devoted mainly to the ratification of the Constitution. Nevada's early history and her admission to the Union formed one part of the program, while the other part was devoted to national history. One special feature was the playing of the Federal March, originally composed by Alexander Reinagle in 1788 and played at the Philadelphia celebration of the ratification of the Constitution in July, 1788. Altogether it was a most inspirational commemoration, uniting the young and old in doing honor to our great Constitution.
Logan Stake
The picture below is that of President Joseph Quinney of the Logan Temple congratulating Sister Maria Kristina Persson in front of the Logan Temple on her 92nd birthday. Sister Persson is a most interesting character and is a living demonstration of what active, wholesome participation in the Church can do for one. Sister Persson is perhaps the oldest temple officiator in the L. D. S. Church. She is still active after 44 years of devoted temple service. It is quite likely that she is the oldest Relief Society visiting teacher, as she still performs the duties of such, which have been hers for nearly 57 years. Her story is very similar to the ones which we have considered in our biographies of outstanding women, whose lives are eloquent sermons. Born in far-away Sweden she emigrated to Utah in pioneer days and has never ceased to carry on her work as a consistent mother and Latter-day Saint.
San Juan Stake
Among the interesting things which the San Juan Stake has succeeded in accomplishing is to train the members of the Relief Society to memorize well chosen memory gems taken from the teachings of Christ. These gems have included something from the Visiting Teachers' Messages and have been used in the Union meeting and at every Board meeting during the month. All Relief Society women were expected to memorize the gems and apply them in their lives. The visiting teachers were asked to carry them into the homes where they made their visits and request all mothers to have their families learn them as well. It was felt that this would help mothers and fathers and children to learn the scriptures and come to a better understanding of their significance.
The plan developed whereby the young mothers might attend Relief Society is very inspiring. There were many women who really desired to come but had no way of leaving their small children. A kindergarten was therefore started where capable young girls have been called to attend the children and teach them. These girls are in turn given instructions at the Union meeting by a trained kindergarten teacher. Comfortable rooms have been fitted up as nurseries, and the little folk are entertained and taught while their mothers attend Relief Society meeting.
In line with the program suggested by the General Board a class was started for young mothers. These lessons are on child guidance and the training of the young mothers. The young women are beginning to see how valuable this information is to them in the rearing of their children, and it has been the means of bringing many new members into the Relief Society organization.
The home-meeting project is another activity the Relief Society is sponsoring. The slogan for the past year has been, "A weekly meeting in every home, with all members of the family taking part." To quote from a letter from the secretary: "Although we have not yet reached this goal, much interest has been aroused and many families are holding these meetings. A feeling of good will and love for one another among both the old and young is the result of this project."
Woodruff Stake
Woodruff Stake has been very active in all its work during the past year, and the ward conferences were the most successful ever held, according to the report sent in to the office. There was a visitor from the Stake Board at each of the ward conferences. Each ward presented the pageant "It Pays To Be A Member", and this was productive of a wonderful spirit of enthusiasm. Two of the smallest wards in the stake made most enviable records. It was interesting to note the individual touches which each ward added to the regular production. Scenery painted by one of the sisters was used in a tableau, representing the Literary lessons on the Louis and Clark Expedition. The following picture is of the Diamondville Ward whose enrollment is 24. Many of the sisters came for miles to attend the practices of this pageant, and the resources of the people, though limited, were generously donated in order that a finished performance might be given. A month before conference a Union meeting was held at which the stake officers, assisted by local members, put over the pageant. At this meeting every ward in the stake was represented, and the program was most enthusiastically received. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - This was also a fine social occasion. Twenty-three awards, book markRefreshments were served by the ers of hammered copper with Stake Board. These gatherings do "Woodruff Stake" printed on them, much to keep up the enthusiasm and were awarded throughout the stake feelings of loyalty and unity throughto the sisters who had completed out the stake. The outside reading course. DIAMONDVILLE WARD, WOODRUFF STAKF. Bek 1 ITH malice toward none; with charity for all."'—Abraham Lincoln, Second Inaugural Address, March 4, 1865. A SLENDER acquaintance with the world must convince every man that actions, not words, are the true criteria of the attachment of friends; and that the most liberal professions of good-will are very far from being the surest marks of it.'—George Washington, First President of the United States. PEACE and friendship with all mankind; may we be permitted to pursue it."—Thomas Jefferson, Third President of the United States. MUSIC DEPARTMENT Hints for Studying the Conference Songs By Wade N. Stephens 1. "SANCTUS," Gounod THE chief difficulty in this song is to stay in pitch. The worst place begins at page seven, bottom line, measure two, and extends to page ten, top line, measure two, inclusive. Since all the rest of the piece is comparatively easy, it is best to begin each rehearsal on this piece with a study of this difficult part. In each phrase the trouble occurs on the word "glory". Each time one part holds the same note, while the other two move one half-step. In the first occurrence, the alto note holds; in the next two occurrences the middle part holds. 'each the singers first to hold these notes unwaveringly. 'Then proceed to the parts that move a half-step. When a part moves up a half-step, teach the singers to go a long way. When a part moves down a half-step, teach them to move only a short distance. This will correct the natural tendency of untrained singers to flat. These hard phrases can be learned only by working on each part alone. In the last two measures at the bottom of page eleven, where the words read "Glory be to," please change them to read "Glory, Glory to"'. 2. "BENEDICTUS," Gounod HIS piece is printed in the same leaflet as the "Sanctus". It is new to many of you. In teaching it, think of two things, which in effect are really one. First, teach your chorus to sing it in strict time. 'The beat must be slow but steady, and must continue so through the rests as well as the notes. Second, try for a straight tone, without any vibrato or waver, and sing softly throughout except for the last phrase, which must be very loud and jubilant, with a resonant tone. Notes for Masic Department QUESTIONS have been received at the general office as to the interpretation of the last lines of the chorus in our rallying song, "A Hundred Thousand Strong". The following suggestion may be helpful: Beginning with "heart and will to do," retard slightly to end of "grow," then resume tempo on last line. In the rendition of "The Lord's Prayer," by Gates, the words "forgive us our debts" and "as we forgive our debtors," are preferred over "our trespasses," etc., and are used more generally throughout the Church. E, would appreciate knowing soon just how many stakes are planning to participate with the Singing Mothers in April Conference. Will you kindly send this information? LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology and SJestimony 2 Lesson 8 PETER, DISCIPLE and APOSTLE HELPFUL REFERENCES James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 140, 197-199, 218 f., 314 f., 360-364, 368, 370-376, 595 £., 599 f., 610-612, 616, 629-631. C. R. Brown, These Twelve, pp. -22. > A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve; consult index under heading of Peter. C. E. Macartney, "Of Them He Chose Twelve," pp. 108-121. W. M. Mackay, The Men Whom Jesus Made, pp. 17-35. PETER ls Brought to the Christ.— The Gospel of John tells us in very simple language how Peter was brought to our Lord. We are told that one of John the Baptist's disciples was responsible for making the Man of Rock acquainted with the Master. To our surprise it is disclosed that the disciple was Andrew, Peter's own brother. Andrew and John, brother of James, had left their work at the fishing business to visit John the Baptist who was preaching and baptizing at Bethabara beyond the Jordan. They had probably made many similar visits before and had been won over to John's preaching. On this particular occasion the Baptist was standing with Andrew and John and saw the Savior approaching. Turning to his two disciples he said, "Behold, the Lamb of God!" (John 1:36) Then follows the famous account of the future apostles' first visit with the Christ. So impressed was Andrew that "He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ." (Verse 41) Andrew brought Peter to Christ who looked at him and said, "Thou art Simon the son of Jona; thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, a stone." (Verse 42) From the story as told by John we cannot quite escape the belief that Peter was also one of John the Baptist's disciples and was not far away. Earnest students of the Gospels are thankful for the limited accounts we have of these first meetings of Peter, Andrew and John with our Lord, but are hungry for greater details. What were the circumstances that caused Peter, Andrew, and John to become disciples of the Baptist? How long had they been with him when they met the Christ? These details and many others we should like to know because of our supreme interest in the characters involved. It seems remarkable that several of Christ's future apostles should have come to him through the good offices of the Baptist, the last man holding the keys of the Mosaic dispensation.
124 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
SIMON PETER Goes Back to Work.—The Gospel of John (2:2) employs the word "disciples" or "learners" of Peter and his five companions who joined the Savior at Bethabara beyond Jordan. At the marriage feast in Cana the Master turned water into wine. The marvelous power of the Messiah over the elements must have deeply impressed Peter and the other disciples for the record says, "This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory; and his disciples believed on him." (John 2:11) We do not know how much time Peter and his colleagues were spending in the company of the Christ, but they did not give up their vocations at that time. During their absence it is probable that "hired servants" (Mark 1:20) carried on the fishing business. In the next picture we find that Peter and the others of the fishing firm had gone back to their regular work.
"I WILL Make You Fishers of Men."—Our Lord is pictured by Matthew walking by the Sea of Galilee when he sees Peter and Andrew casting their nets into the water. The Savior says to them, "Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men." (Matt. 4:19) The Master is quick to convert the word "fishers" to spiritual purposes. The fishermen were from now on to fish for the souls of men. We may perhaps regard the Christ's words to them as a formal call for training in his service. Farther down the shore James and John are found and receive the same call as Peter and Andrew. (Matt. 4:21, 22) These disciples now burn all their bridges behind them. "And they immediately left the ship and their father, and followed him." Only strong convictions and high moral courage could cause them to leave their families and their business and follow after a man who had been, and would yet be, extremely unpopular in high circles. It is probable that Peter, as the leader of the group, had given some careful thought before this time to the nature of the Messiah's teachings and to his supernatural powers. Men do not usually leave their homes and business at a word without counting the cost.
PETER is Chosen to be an Apostle—It is impossible for us to deal with all of the events that concerned Peter before the Savior called the Twelve. The latter seem to have been called when the organized opposition of the Pharisees from Jerusalem brought about a crisis. Then, too, the common people were so interested in the Christ that they followed him in great crowds. Probably our Lord felt that the definite organization of the Church would provide him with some badly needed assistance. We do not know how long Peter and his companions followed the Master before being made apostles, but probably long enough for the Lord to make amply sure that his choice of men was justified. Luke gives the following account of the circumstances under which the apostles were chosen: "And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God. And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples; and of them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles." (Luke 6:12, 13) The solemnity of the appointments is shown by the fact that the Christ
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 125
spent a whole night in prayer before he formally set the Twelve apart. All the lists of the Twelve have Peter named first. There can be little doubt that he was ordained before the others, and was intended by our Lord to head the Quorum, despite all that has been written to the contrary.
THE Great Confession.—Probably many months after the appointment of the apostles our Lord came into the region of Caesarea Philippi. He had spent much time in teaching them of the true nature of his work and mission. The Master, great teacher that he was, determined to test his apostles in relation to their understanding of him as compared with other people. The Christ did not doubt the loyalty of the Twelve to him. That had been sufficiently demonstrated at various times. But the shadow of the Cross was near at hand and it was necessary for him to know their spiritual growth and insight. The Savior therefore raised a preliminary question in order to bring clearly the issue before the apostles. "Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?" (Matt. 16:13) The apostles responded immediately with the answer that the opinions of men differed. "Some say that thou art John the Baptist; some, Elias; and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets." (Matt. 16:14) This was common talk and not unknown to the Christ, but it paved the way for his vital question: "But whom say ye that I am?" (See Mark 8:29; Matt. 16:15; Luke 9:20) This was the matter that the Master was intensely interested in. It was a searching of the apostles' hearts. Would they fail him after long months of teaching by precept and example? It would probably be impossible for ordinary men to conceive the joy that filled our Lord when Peter impulsively, but with a full heart, answered, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." This was a great confession, and we can expect a great rejoinder. It came. "Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I also say unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth will be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth will be loosed in heaven." (Matthew 16:17-18.) These verses have aroused supreme interest among Christian peoples and have been variously interpreted. With due respect to the opinions of others, Latter-day Saints interpret the statements of the Master as follows: By the principle of revelation, Peter had received knowledge that Jesus was the Christ. On this enduring principle or rock the Christ meant to build his Church. Peter was to be given the keys of the kingdom of heaven which means that he was to hold all of the powers necessary to carry on God's work in the earth. So powerful were these keys that they held the powers of binding and loosing in heaven. Only the true Church of Christ on earth today recognizes and understands fully the nature of these keys.
126 -
PETER Receives the Keys of the Kingdom Upon the Mount of Transfiguration.—The Christ fulfilled his promise to Peter by conferring the keys upon him very shortly after the above incident. He took Peter, James, and John upon a high mountain where "he was transfigured before them; and his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light. And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with him." (Matthew 17:2, 3.) The apostles were shown many marvelous things upon the mount including the pattern according to which the earth shall be transfigured in due time. (Doctrine and Covenants 63:21.) The Prophet Joseph Smith points out that the keys of the Priesthood were conferred upon these apostles while on the mount. He says, "The Priesthood is everlasting. The Savior, Moses, and Elias, gave the keys to Peter, James and John, on the mount, when they were transfigured before him." (History of the Church, Vol. III, page 387.) This statement of the Prophet is a real contribution to knowledge. It seems so reasonable, too, when we consider the fact that Matthew has the transfiguration story immediately following the Savior's promise of giving keys to Peter. Note, also, the fact that the three men afterward to function as the Presidency of the Church were the ones chosen to go with the Christ.
PETER Thrice Denies His Master.—We have seen Peter as fisherman, disciple of John the Baptist and the Christ, and as an apostle who has had a revelation that Jesus is the Christ, and who has received the "keys of the kingdom" under
FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
glorious circumstances. Now we shall see him as a weak, feeble, mortal whose infirmities are laid bare during the trial of his great Master. After the Last Supper, Peter had protested to our Lord as follows: "Though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended." (Matthew 26:33.) But Christ answered, "Verily I say unto thee, That this night before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice." The Gospel further records: "Peter says to him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples." (See Matthew 26:34, 35.) Peter was with the Christ during his agony in Gethsemane and his subsequent betrayal. The Man of Rock attempted to save his Master and in doing so cut off the ear of Malchus which Jesus restored. Finally the mob prevailed, and the apostles all fled. Peter at last decided to follow the Master "afar off" to court for trial. We all know the familiar story of how he drew near to where the trial was going on and was accused by two maids of having associated with "Jesus the Galilean." He denied the charge to each, and the third time when confronted by others he "began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man." (Matthew 26:74.) The Gospel goes on to say, "And immediately the cock crew. And Peter remembered the words of Jesus, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. And he went out, and wept bitterly." How are the mighty fallen! The story of Peter's fall is told with simplicity and great power in the Gospels. There is no attempt to cover up his mistakes or to justify them.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 127
But Peter's greatness is revealed by the fact that he is the one probably responsible for our having any knowledge of his sin at all. Who could have told the story of his thrice denial of the Master? Aside from the latter Peter is the only one who knew the facts. The Man of Rock probably told and retold many times over the story of his great mistake to the ancient Church. His mental and spiritual agony because of his sin can only be imagined. We love this impulsive character even in his weakness.
Questions and Problems (Deal Only With As Many As Time Permits)
1. It appears that Peter and some of his immediate colleagues were disciples of John the Baptist. Do you think they were disturbed over religion in the same sense Joseph Smith was when he sought God in prayer? Discuss.
2. Why do you suppose the Savior performed so many miracles in the presence of Peter and the other apostles?
3. List some of Peter's strong points and weaknesses. Analyze the character of the man.
4. The Savior seemed to love John even more than Peter. Why do you suppose he chose the latter to be the chief apostle?
5. Why was it necessary for Moses and Elijah to be present on the mount of Transfiguration when Peter, James, and John received the keys of the Priesthood?
6. Discuss the serious nature of Peter's thrice denial of the Christ.
7. In the light of Peter's life discuss the following proposition: Christ loves men not necessarily for what they are but for what they may become.
8. The teacher is advised to read Mrs. Browning's sonnet, "The Meaning of the Look," to the class. (Luke 22:61.)
Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No. 8
Obedience
JESUS said, "My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work." (John 4:34.) Obedience is a most outstanding trait in the perfect personality—our Savior; indeed we may say He is obedience personified. "Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; and being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him." (Heb. 5:8.) Jesus contended that there was only one way in which to build personalities sufficiently strong to withstand trials, and that was through obedience to His teachings. The progress made thus far by psychologists can find no flaw in this contention, says Dr. Ligon, psychologist of Union College.
It is impossible to build strong structures upon weak foundations, but it is possible to build strong foundations. Obedience as taught by Jesus forms a strong foundation for desirable personality. Jesus explains this matter in the Sermon on the Mount, "Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock." (Matthew 7:24-5.)
By modern revelation Latter-day Saints are commanded to study the Gospel and teach it to their children: (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 68:25-28.) In obeying this commandment of the Master they will develop personalities which will meet life understandingly. Love must be the keynote in all our teachings of obedience. If a child is taught really to love God he will give the type of obedience to God's commandments which develops strong personality. Children are naturally happy in obeying those they love. If parents are consistently obedient to these commandments their teachings will be effective.
"By strict obedience Jesus won the prize with glory rife. Thy will, O Lord, not mine be done adorned His mortal life."
Discussion
1. Cite a commandment of the Master and show how obedience to it affects personality desirably.
2. What type of obedience should be required in the home in order to secure the best personality development of family members?
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs planned by the Ward.
128 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
Lesson 8
A City of Bells
WHEN men as great as Dickens and Thackeray die, the world gasps and people wonder if their like will ever be seen again. However, the novel had come to stay, and, therefore, it was natural that men and women would be found to carry on where those two giants, and George Eliot, Richard Blackmore, and a score of others had left off. Today novels roll from the printing presses in England and this country by the thousands. Many have marks of greatness on them; others clearly are written only to be read and tossed aside. In this country such books as Anthony Adverse and Gone With the Wind have surprised the critics with their popularity despite their length in an era that "hasn't time". Over in England a number of women besides those mentioned by Professor Phelps are writing their stories and sending them out like ships to sea. Among these there may be women of significance. As our last novel in this year's course, we have selected A City of Bells, by Elizabeth Goudge. This novel is very recent, having been published first in 1936. The author is still a comparatively young woman, approximately thirty-eight years of age, and is still writing. In a biographical sketch furnished by her American publishers she says:
"I was born in 1900 at Wells, Somersetshire, the cathedral town I have described as 'Torminster' in my novel, A City of Bells. When I was born my father was Vice-Principal of the Theological College, and we lived in the house with the tower in which Grandfather and Grandmother Fordyce live in the book. When I was three years old, and my father became the Principal of the College, we moved across the road to another old house, with carved angels in the corners of the rooms and dark passages that were wonderful for hide-and-seek.
"Though I was only a child I was never lonely in those early days. I had perfect parents and a perfect Nannie, and my invalid mother was, and is, the most wonderful storyteller in the world....
"My chief playmates in those days were a family of boys who lived across the road in the house with the tower....
"One of those little boys and I did lessons together with a Governess, Miss Lavington. To look at she was like the Miss Lavender of A City of Bells, but she was not like her in her methods of teaching. She was a magnificent, if stern, teacher. I have never had any memory nor any brains, but what little I do know was pounded into my unwilling mind by Miss Lavington."
Being the daughter of a school man, Miss Goudge moved with her family from one school town to another until her father finally became connected with Oxford. She concludes her sketch by saying: "Now I am writing about my present home, Oxford, which I love now as much as the quiet little towns of Wells and Ely.... But plays, just because they are so difficult and I never have any success with them, are still my first love."
Miss Goudge's great desire was to be a playwright. She says: "I was thirty-two before any success came my way: a Sunday night performance in London of a play about the Brontes. It was a small success, but no bigger one could bring me half so much joy again. I saw my play beautifully acted by real live actors and actresses, and I had some good notices in the papers. I was in heaven."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 129
She remained in "heaven," however, only a short time. "I returned home so encouraged that I gathered my plays together into a book and sent it the round of several publishers, with the humble suggestion that it would be nice if it could be published. The publishers, however,
130 -
did not think so; there was no market for unknown plays. 'But,' said one kind publisher, 'your work shows promise. Why not try to write a novel?'"
Miss Goudge took the suggestion and has had the pleasure of having three novels published, Island Magic, The Middle Window and A City of Bells, each one a rather pleasing success. Her first novel, however, was rejected once or twice by publishers who were afraid to take a chance with it. A City of Bells is having a deserved sale in this country as well as in England where it was first published.
It is a delightful story of modern English life in which the quaint charm of an English village is to be felt and enjoyed. It is a relief to many people to turn to a story like A City of Bells. In it is to be found sunshine and laughter as well as a sane, ordered existence such as most people, after all, enjoy. It is clean and wholesome, but because it deals only with the brighter side of life, it may lack in depth and significance. It was well received by the book reviewers as is indicated by the following excerpts from reviews. We quote them because they may not be obtainable by the literary teacher, and because, in most cases, they present so beautifully the tone of this charming novel:
"It is good to have on hand a few novels not only fundamentally happy, but well and truly written. This one is both; it should be marked down for those reading for peace and delight."—Booklist, M. L. Becker.
"A City of Bells is a joyous tale, whose rippling, magical prose is that
FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of the born story-teller."—M. W. S. In Books.
Jane Spence Southron, in the New York Times, has caught the pleasing spirit of this tale. Says she: "It is a book of spring. A young book, brimful of the spirit that animates the beginnings of life; the same spirit that breathes in the joyfulest of Shakespeare's lyrics, in so many of the medieval chansons to Mary and the Babe, in much of Shelley, and in the works of those writers who never wholly lose their sense of wonder at the beauty of creation.... It is a book that weaves for grownups the same sort of magic as was Hans Anderson's gift to nineteenth-century children; or as was that of Lohengrin seen when you were nine. The philosophy of life explicit in the sayings and doings of many of its characters is as natural to it as perfume to a flower, and as acceptable."
One more review catches the mood of this book: "Nothing is harder to find, and nothing is better in its way when you have found it, than a pleasant book about nice people; and if, in addition to being amusing, it offers more plot than the usual light novel, and yet has always the comfortable assurance that everything will come right in the end, then it is a find indeed—like A City of Bells.... This is something more than a pleasant novel, for it has the romantic fault of improbability; it has in many passages great romantic beauty."—Basil Davenport in the Book-Of-The-Month Club News.
A City of Bells is what these critics have said of it—a delightful story, pleasant, sunny, joyous, clean. Not deep and heavy, not tragic and somber, not disgusting and sordid. In
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 131
it are to be found clean people and a clean outlook on life that is wholesome and bright. Miss Goudge has a delightful imagination and a touch that is as light as a zephyr playing upon the cheek in June. Speaking of wind, note this pleasing passage—"'Our destiny is like a wind blowing,' said Grandfather (speaking to Jocelyn). 'It carries us along. But now and again the wind seems to drop. We don't know what to do next. Then it may be that a blade of grass growing in the road beside us bends slightly. It is a tiny movement, slight as a whim, but enough to show us which way to take.'"
"In this story Jocelyn Irvin, dispirited because of a wound received in the Boer war, traveled down to the peaceful little English cathedral city of Torminster, there to visit his saintly (yet very human) old grandfather, Canon Fordyce. Practically forced to open a bookshop in a tiny house in the city (by the gossip of the town delightfully revealed by Miss Goudge) Jocelyn became interested in the writings of a former occupant, Ferranti, who had disappeared. In the finishing and producing of a play of Ferranti's, Jocelyn helped himself and others, especially the charming child, Henrietta, Canon Fordyce's adopted grandchild."
The delicate pictures painted of Canon Fordyce and his beloved old wife and of the two adopted grandchildren, Hugh Anthony and Henrietta, are as pleasant and as quaint as those sometimes found on old china. The portrait of Felicity, also, is well done. In her one can see, after reading the autobiography of Miss Goudge, some lineaments of the author. Passages such as these are fresh and pleasant:
"For in every dream Henrietta dreamed music had its place. She even thought that colors and scents had their sounds. Red was a trumpet blast, and green was the sound of fairy flutes, and the scent of the wisteria was a tune played by the violins that made one want to sit down on a cushion and never do any work any more."
A description of Felicity: "Jocelyn did not hear him, he was too much occupied in gazing at the most enchanting back view he had ever seen. It was that of a slim girl with an aureole of short, curly golden hair that stuck out all around like the petals of a sunflower. She wore a childish cotton frock of delphinium blue, with short sleeves and no collar, that showed the warm, creamy colour of her skin and the lovely moulding of her arms and slender neck....
"The girl swung round and Jocelyn, entirely forgetting his usually excellent manners, rubbed almost feverishly at the window with his handkerchief, so as to see her face perfectly. It was the most alive face he had ever seen. Her eyes were tawny and full of light and her heart-shaped face, with its delicate yet determined features, had a transparency that made it seem like a window through which she herself could be seen with a delicious clearness. Jocelyn felt that he was looking through two windows at the most courageous, generous person he had ever encountered. She was pale, but not with the moonlight paleness that was Henrietta's, for she looked sun-kissed
132 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
and warmly loving, and somehow she was familiar. Somewhere else, Jocelyn felt, he had encountered that vivid personality."
A person who can write description like that and make one feel that it is true and genuine, is worth reading. As Miss Southron said in one of her reviews: "Let it not be thought, however, that Miss Goudge's prose is either dithyrambic or what is usually designated as poetic. It is distinctly prose; plain and simple as primroses. Her distinction in style derives from freshness of outlook."
That is very true, indeed—freshness of outlook describes her style. The book is so crammed with quotable passages that perhaps it is unnecessary to give any others, but the writer cannot resist this one, it is so rich, so vibrant, so fresh:
"It was this last today. The bare branches of the elm-trees were strokes of paint laid on sharply against the primrose wash of the sky. The Cathedral towers stood out hard and black against the sheeted gold of the west, and snow-covered grass stretched smooth and pure. Here and there a sudden speck of color burned as the painter's brush touched the flat surfaces; an orange square of lamplight leaping out in a dark house, a flash of colour on the snow as a robin hopped across it, a gleam of blue and green as a child in a gay muffler ran home from school. As always on these days when the earth is a painted picture it was very still; the cawing of a rook and the chime of a bell fell sharply as pebbles dropped in a deep well."
As a writer in the London Times said of her: "She is happiest with one foot at least off the earth. Her sentiment is never forced or insipid; her spiritual flights, not high, are never pretentious, and she takes off and alights neatly."
Miss Goudge's charm lies in the fact that she can write beautifully and at the same time convincingly—a splendid achievement for any author. The book in its earlier chapters is, to say the least, delightful. It does not have the power to hold up to its initial high standard to the end. After the planning of the production of the play begins, the author has to see that the thing is properly staged and produced. In so doing she has to leave too much her delightful persons—the Fordyces, the incomparables, Hugh Anthony and Henrietta, and the quaint loveliness of Torminster. That is unfortunate, for in them lies the charm of the book. However, after the last page has been read, one turns away from it feeling that he has had a glowing spiritual experience with people who are the salt of the earth.
Suggestions
1. Read, if it is available, Island Magic.
2. Elizabeth Goudge is writing for several American magazines. Her stories may be had in libraries which preserve such magazines as Good Housekeeping and Woman's Home Companion.
3. Read copiously from the book, for in the language, rather than in the story, is to be found the charm of this book.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 133
4. It should be interesting to have some visitor to a Cathedral Town, if there be one in the community, describe such an English town.
5. Grandfather and Grandmother Fordyce could well be discussed, especially their outlook upon labor and their attitude toward the poor.
Social Service
Lesson 8
On Being A Good Mother-in-law
CENTRAL Thoughts of the Lesson. After a mother has nurtured her child throughout the growth period, it is naturally very difficult for her to see the child grow up and leave home to enter marriage. This change calls for radical revision of habits on the part of both the mother and the child. Preparation for being a good mother-in-law begins during the child guidance period and is continued throughout adolescence. The transition to adolescence and later into marriage should not constitute a crisis for either the parent or the child if proper training in independence and self-reliance has been carried out during childhood. Preparation for the role of mother-in-law should include a cultivation of unfolding and creative interests which in a measure substitute for the emotional outlet she loses when her children marry. Another useful preparatory measure for both mother and child is to complete the educational preparation of the child by sending him or her away on a mission or to school for a period long enough to wean both mother and child to a certain extent. After the marriage, the mother-in-law can promote harmony by not taking a conspicuous place in the home life of the children, and by taking particular pains not to interfere with the disciplining of the grandchildren.
MARRIAGE Requires Radical Habit Revision of Both Mother and Son or Daughter. After a mother has spent approximately twenty years ministering to the physical, mental, and spiritual needs of her child, it is to be expected that she experiences great difficulty relinquishing her career as mother. When her son or daughter marries, she experiences much of the same pain that is so severe when death calls one of her loved ones away. Perhaps for twenty years the mother has had no other daily duty which has absorbed her life so much as seeing to every need of her daughter. She has nursed her whenever she has fallen ill; she has "struggled through" every stirring romance her daughter has had; and has been almost as anxious about the outcome of the daughter's school work or her part in extra-curricular activities as the daughter has herself. Then one day she must suddenly step aside and see her go into the arms of another to begin the great task of building a "kingdom" of her own.
134 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The marriage of a son or daughter often means to the parents the assuming of more burdens themselves, if the childhood training has been proper and the children have been taught to take much responsibility themselves. It sometimes means leaving the parents all alone with an extremely unpleasant hole in their lives. Perhaps the most difficult test comes when the mother is required to relinquish her position as sole advisor and disciplinarian. Her advice and control, which was formerly taken for granted, is now resented more and more as the newly married one grows into the full measure of her adult status. These difficulties may be complicated for the mother by her feeling that her son or daughter made a bad bargain in the marriage, i. e. The one married was not quite good enough. In this case, the parent may remain over-solicitous concerning the welfare of her son or daughter and may continue to provide in every way she can to make up the deficiency. If it is true that proper provision is not being made, (whether it pertains to financial, emotional, or social advantages) the favors may be gladly received from the parents and their continuance encouraged. This of course undermines the self-respect of the other party in many cases and is the starting point for a long and painful "in-law" antagonism. It also prolongs childhood dependence and postpones psychological weaning. We do not advocate here that aid should not be given in some cases, but we are simply pointing out a common circumstance which vitiates family relationships.
A young man's mother has special problems of an emotional nature when he marries. Often she feels the keenest competition with her daughter-in-law for the affection of her son. It isn't always a clearly understood kind of behavior on the mother's part, because so often she has developed a subconscious emotional attachment to her son which is a substitute for lack of affection between herself and her husband. This attachment may be the primary source of emotional satisfaction in her life. This is, of course, an unfortunate condition, but it is quite common and explains many of our most difficult problems of inter-family relationships. A mother with a tendency to be too much absorbed in her son is likely to keep a constant vigil lest her daughter-in-law neglect in some way her responsibilities toward her husband. This sometimes leads to unsolicited suggestions on how to manage her home and how to conduct herself. Obviously antagonism is likely to result.
PREPARATION for Being a Good Mother-in-Law Begins During the Child Guidance Period and Should be Completed During the Adolescence of the Child. In the lesson on marital adjustments, we learned that preparation for marriage begins in the cradle. We might say, as well, that she who would be a good mother-in-law should begin training herself and her child along certain lines in early childhood. The mother who has achieved the fundamental attitudes necessary for proper child guidance should have a minimum of difficulty in making the adjustments after the child has matured and married. Of these atti-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 135
tudes, perhaps none is more important than that of understanding the needs of the child and the ability to be heroic enough to let the welfare of the child take precedence over the emotional needs of the mother. Proper child guidance is based on the aim of making the child as nearly a self-sustaining and happy person as possible. This means training the child to take the consequences of his own acts as far as is reasonable; it means training the child in assuming the responsibility for his share of the tasks about the home, such as regular attendance to washing before meals, putting away his articles, taking care of his clothes, and cleaning up his own musses around the home. As maturity approaches, it means training in the care of money, working for at least part of his support, and training in self-sufficiency in pursuing his educational program. For girls, it means training in household arts, responsibility with other children, providing for their own needs to some extent as regards clothing, and cultivating whatever artistic or other talents they may possess. Space will not permit detailed consideration of the technique of developing responsibility in children. We shall add here only the suggestion that proper child guidance is based on striking a happy medium between expecting too much and expecting too little in the way of responsibilities. Happy childhood is based on a suitable balance between freedom and play on the one hand, and responsibilities and adherence to routine on the other. Over-solicitous mothers often become difficult mothers-in-law. This is true because over-solicitousness breeds dependence in the child and too much of a sense of responsibility in the mother for the acts of the child. These personal relations between mother and child are likely to carry over into the marital period and make a pleasant transition for both almost impossible. In many cases, an open breach is likely to occur between the parent and child during the stormy adolescent period which precedes marriage. Most children as they become mature physically and mentally have a strong desire to feel grown up, to use their own judgment, to find their own companions without parental dictation, to explore a larger world than is circumscribed by the family circle. The first signs of this independence are forcefully resisted by the over-solicitous parent, who cannot bear to see the child grow up and away from her. Fortunately the struggle for independence during adolescence prepares for the still more vital step toward independence which comes with marriage. In fact, many a premature marriage is simply an escape from an overdominating home influence. In less violent cases, adolescence is simply a period during which the parent and child must intelligently begin to wean themselves apart. It need not be with bitterness, but it must be done if the marriage crisis is not to be a painful one. With the proper educational program in the home, the crisis of adolescence need not be severe either. Training for independence begins in early childhood; and if intelligently carried through the 136 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE whole period of childhood to adolescence, there is little need for adolescence to be the trying period for parent and child it is usually considered. Likewise, if the weaning process of adolescence is properly managed by an intelligent and stable parent, the marriage of her children is not the trial to her it is usually imagined. This theme does not imply that parents should simply leave their children alone and let them find their own way in life. The most devoted parents are those who can be ever conscious of what their children are experiencing and who have maintained such good relationships with them that they are always in the confidence of their children. The parent who is more concerned with nursing her own emotions rather than considering the welfare of the child is likely to "lose" her child when the transition into adulthood is made, for the simple reason that she is not likely to want the child to grow up and is likely to exercise so much dominion that the child finally has to rebel. The mothers who are most promising as mothers-in-law are those who find their greatest joy in seeing their children develop strong characters able to live happily largely on their own strength, and ever loving and grateful to their mothers because they didn't help too much, and because they never made it necessary to rebel in order to grow up. CONDITIONS Preceding Marriage Which May Foster Good Relations in Marriage. Mothers should begin long before the children are grown up to cultivate emotional substitutes to brighten their lives after the children have marnied and left home. They may cultivate a taste for art or music. Perhaps they can learn to play the piano, to make some artistic kind of hand work, to help their husbands in business, or they may take up some courses in school which they have longed to take but for want of time have never been able to. Relief Society activities permit the releasing of reserve energy and are an excellent source of aims that may make life infinitely richer and more interesting. Busy and intelligent women find so many important activities to fill up their lives that they have no time to meddle in the affairs of their children after they have married. Sometimes, to send a young man or a young woman away on a mission or to school before marriage cultivates independence and tends to lighten the shock for both mother and children when marriage comes. Homesickness is likely to make the early months of marriage difficult for everyone if the young man or young woman has never been away from home for any period before marriage. An essential aspect of growing up psychologically is to acquire the ability to "go alone', or to find one's way about in strange — places if necessary. A story is told of a man in his thirties, caught in the military draft during the World War, who was so upset at having to leave home that he became mentally unfit for service. His mother interceded at military headquarters to have her "baby" released because he had never slept away from home in his life. With these two conditions satisfied, if the mother can learn during RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 137 adolescence how much advice she can give without offense and how to give it, she should be fairly well equipped to become a good motherinlaw. She should have also made up her mind to share the love her child has for the future companion in marriage, and if possible she should have made her own enviable character one of the reasons her child is chosen in marriage. Someone said that we don't marry a person but a family. W HAT Can a Mother-in-Law Do After the Marriage of Her Child to Promote Harmony? First, she should assign herself the frequently unpleasant duty of not making herself a prominent part of the new household. If it is possible, the newly married couple should be made to find their own home independent of the parents of either party. She should take care not in any way to complicate their lives; she should not stay with them nor interfere with any degree of independence they care to excercise in building their family life. This means that the mother must throw off the "mother attitude" and substitute the attitude of considering her child as an adult equal, with complete independence of judgment and action. It does not mean that the mother should lose all of her influence for good in the life of the son or daughter, but it means that the influence must not come as motherly dictation. She now influences through her wisdom and insight, and not through parental authority. A common mistake mothers make is in taking up the quarrels of their son or daughter with their "in-laws"', In these matters she may act as friendly advisor, but to enter into the conflicts in an active and emotional way rarely accomplishes any good. Then when grandchildren come, there appears the problem of satisfying the grandparent's emotional needs through the grandchildren. Grandparents must continue to practice what was good philosophy in bringing up their own children: caution against doing so much for the child that he fails to develop normal independence of action and personal responsibility. 'Then, they must think too of the serious family and discipline problems created by interfering with the guidance methods used by the parents. Evcn poor discipline methods are perhaps to be preferred to conflicting methods by different members of the family. Let the child's parents draw on your wisdom as they need it, but avoid, so far as possible, taking an active part in the disciplining of the children. Finally, a good mother-in-law must not take offense at what seems to be too much forgetfulness on the part of her married children. She must realize that the young have their new emotional attachments and their new home responsibilities and life ambitions. 'The success of the mother-in-law depends upon her ability to make corresponding substitutes in her own life. Class Exercise Discuss the following list of miscellaneous suggestions on the mother-in-law problem and have the members of the class add to it others which they think are important: 138 FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 1. Avoid being a match-maker; don't make the child feel that she will be an old maid. 2. Refrain from being too critical of the company your son or daughter keeps during the courtship period. Suspend judgment until you know the person. Have a friendly, open-minded attitude until you have a sound basis for judgment. 3. If the child marries without parents' consent, don't "disown" him or her. Attempt to accept the child's point of view and to make the best adjustment to the situation. To refuse to acknowledge the child's partner as a member of the family only causes unhappiness and may ruin what otherwise may be a successful marriage. Avoid saying, "I told you so" after marriage. 4. Resist the tendency to feign illness and other forms of malingering in order to postpone the child's marriage, or to bring the child home after marriage. 5. See the folly of the contention that anything that was good enough for you when you were married should be good enough for your daughter-in-law. Encourage your son to provide well for her. 6. Guard against being so solicitous of the welfare of your son or daughter-in-law that your own son or daughter becomes jealous of you. Problems For Discussion 1. What steps would you recommend a mother to take in preparation for her role as a mother-in-law? What preparation for her son or daughter would you recommend? 2. What is the effect of prolonged "nfancy" of a child on the interfamily relationships after marriage? 3. Why is it inadvisable for newly married couples to live with the parents of either party? For the mother-in-law to live with the young people? 4. Show what the effect on the child is for the grandparents to take an active part in the disciplining. 5. How can sending a young man or woman away to school or on a mission simplify the mother-in-law problem? 6. Suggest a few new interests and activities a mother-in-law can take up to bridge the gap left by the marriage of her child. References For Further Study 1. Anonymous. "I Sent My Father to an Old Men's Home." Readers Digest, March, 1936, pp. 33-37. (For original article, see The Forum, February, 1936.) 2. Anonymous. "I Am _ the Mother-in-Law in the Home." Readers Digest, November, 1937, pp. 11-14. (For original article, see Saturday Evening Post, September 18, 1937.) 3. Hollingworth, Leta S. "The Adolescent Child," in Handbook of Child Psychology, Ed. By Carl Murchison, pp. 882-908. Worcester, Mass. Clark Univ. Press, 1933. 4. Morgan, J. J. B. Keeping a Sound Mind, pp. 169-201. New York. Education for Si amily Life FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Lesson 5 The Ways of Men and Women By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.) EN and women differ from each other not merely,—literally,—in every cell of their bodies, but in their behavior 1 every relationship of life. Successful family life depends upon an understanding of these differences. Woman's understanding of herself is often confused by what Alfred Adler called the "masculine protest'. From as far back as she can remember, the girl has been led to feel that this is a man's world, and that she is prevented from doing a lot of things that she could do perfectly well, not by her inability but by the mere accident that she was born a female instead of a male. All her life, it seems to her, she has heard, "Little girls don't do such things," and "That's all right for boys, but you're a girl," and so forth and so on. Through years of this she grows up with the feelings that this Man's World is organized to the disadvantage of women, and that therefore she is unfortunate in not having been born a man. Studies show that the great majority of educated women have at one time or another wished they had been born boys. It would be hard to find an educated man who ever wished that he had been born a girl. This simple difference produces far-reaching results in the behavior of many women, leading them (for the most part quite unconsciously ) to be dissatisfied with life, dissatisfied with themselves, and more or less antagonistic toward men as the supposed authors of their misfortunes. The adult woman should make sure that her own outlook on life is not being confused by such an unconscious attempt to be a secondrate man,—which she can never be! —instead of a first-rate woman, which she can be. She must then make sure that her daughters are brought up in a realistic way, protected as far as possible from injustice, and prepared for marriage and motherhood rather than for failure and frustration. Among sex differences to which particular attention should be paid are the following: I. Men tend to be more aggressive than women. Terman and Miles in their recent study, Sex and Personality, consider this the fundamental and most important distinction. It goes back millions of years in the history of the race. Women, therefore make a mistake in adopting too aggressive a manner in dealing with men,—either before 140 FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE or after marriage. One of the commonest complaints of unhappy husbands who come to the Institute of Family Relations is that their wives are too aggressive; one of the commonest complaints of unhappy wives is that their husbands are not aggressive enough! Unfortunately, modern life tends to override this ancient pattern. In the city, a boy sometimes sees little of his father, has little association with his father's work or with the work of other men in the world. He is dominated first by his mother, then by his school teachers, nearly all of whom are women; then (at adolescence) by the girls in his class, who are the same age chronologically but a couple of years ahead of him in their biological, emotional, and social development (because the female matures more rapidly than does the male). Hence the boy grows up without normal masculine initiative, in dealing with the other sex. The girls have taken it away from him and too often become used to exercising it themselves. The result, after marriage, is not satisfactory to either one. More association of boys with their fathers and other men in the work of the world (an association that is natural and almost inevitable on the farm) will help to remove this handicap from city life. More men, real men, happily married and successful fathers, would also be a desirable addition as teachers in the public schools. II. Men are excessively egotistical. The successful wife has learued (or knew by instinct) that she must spend much of her time protecting her husband's self-esteem and building it up. This does not mean that women lack vanity, but at least there seems to be a difference in the quality of the egotism of the two sexes. It has sometimes been said that men are egotistic, women narcissistic (after the legend of Narcissus, the Greek youth who fell in love with his own reflection in a pool, and pined away from unrequited affection). III. Men have a feeling of sex solidarity, of "gang sociality', which is less pronounced in women. Perhaps it is associated with the fact that for millions of years men have worked together in hunting and fighting, occupations that depend largely on discipline, teamwork, and cooperation. Women have tended to work more individually. Men have little enough capacity for cooperation, but at least (in their own opinion) they have somewhat more of it than women. This individualistic tendency sometimes leads to friction in the management of women's clubs and other organizations. Possibly women have developed, through a long process of evolution, a greater instinctive feeling of loyalty to the home than to other women. IV. On the whole, woman has more "social intelligence" than man. For hundreds and thousands of years her ancestresses have had to study human, and particularly masculine, nature. A woman would not leave any offspring to perpetuate her characteristics, unless she acquired not merely a husband, but a fairly good husband (and perhaps such were as scarce a thousand years ago as they are now!). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 141 Yet she had to do this by indirection and strategy, since the man had the initiative and was expected to be the aggressor. In general, therefore, and if she has not received a misleading education, woman understands man better than man understands woman. Unfortunately, this social intelligence, desire for the best possible home, concern over keeping up appearances, and the like, sometimes becomes perverted into snobbishness and "social climbing". It is the wife, not the husband, who is most concerned with "keeping up with the Joneses". At the other extreme, when she lets herself go and ceases to care for appearances, a woman seems to lose morale all around. Terman and his associates, in their recent exhaustive study on "Psychological Factors in Marital Happiness" discovered that slovenliness in a wife was more distressing to the husband than dozens of factors that might at first sight have seemed more serious. In conclusion, neither sex should allow itself to be annoyed at peculliarities of the other that are simply characteristics of the sex. Girls, however, should be brought up to understand their own natures. In particular, they should know that all studies show the importance to a woman of normal marriage and child-bearing, as a fulfilment of personality and as an aid to physical and mental well-being. Actually, the longest-lived and most vigorous women in a normal group will be found to be those who have borne the most children, not those who have borne the fewest or those who are childless. The vital statistics of the single woman, still more of the divorcee, are highly unsatisfactory, showing shorter expectation of life, greater expectation of insanity, of imprisonment, and of suicide. Boys, similarly, should be brought up to be first-class boys rather than poor imitations of women. Since they must inevitably be exposed so much to feminine influence while they are growing up, care should be taken that these various women,— the mother, the kindergarten teacher, the music teacher, the Sunday School teacher, and the long list of others,—do not try to mould him too much in their own pattern. Dr. Goodwin Watson has lately called attention to the fact that women school teachers tend to get along best with the boys who are really "sissies", and look upon them as models of deportment. Ifa boy has normal masculine patterns, they are apt to call hima "behavior problem". Neither sex is inferior to the other. They complement each other. Each depends on the other. When each is at its best, both will get the most out of life. Questions and Problems 1. Mrs. Chase Going Woodhouse questioned 250 highly educated and very happy wives as to their greatest problem in marriage. A large part of them said it was trying to understand their husbands. What could be done to help them? 2. Dr. Will Durant says, "Woman surpasses man in love and is surpassed by him in friendship." Do you agree? Why? 3. Make a list of 10 differences in behavior between the sexes, not mentioned in this lesson, which you 142  FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE think might be of importance in understanding personal relations. 4. In the light of the psychological differences between the sexes, what advice would you give to a young man who wants to know how he can become more popular with the girls? 5. Similarly, what advice would you give to a young woman who wants to know how she can increase her popularity with men? Literature for the Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Lesson 7 A Review and A Summary THE foregoing brief outlines of the lives of seven typical women in the Church could, obviously, present only high lights in the lives of these worthy ladies. Even so, each one is seen to be a distinct personality. No two of them are alike. There are, however, many qualities of character common to them all. In a general way there is a typical Latter-day Saint character, as is illustrated by these seven lives. The philosophy of Mormonism must of necessity leave its imprint upon sincere adherents of Mormonism. Let us somewhat expand and pass some of these things in review: 1. The Maesers were descendants of cultured and educated people. They themselves were educated and cultured. How do you explain that they accepted Mormonism and heroically endured all the consequent poverty, suffering and humiliation that befell them? 2. In a general way would this same explanation apply to Anna Widtsoe? Explain. 3. Outline the general features of a typical L. D. S. Character. 4. Compare this typical character with the average character of a worldly woman, that is, a woman motivated by the usual ideas of worldly people. 5. Show why you think the typical L. D. S. Character is worth all it costs. 6. What influence did want and suffering have on the character development of the women studied in the foregoing lessons? 7. As the foregoing lessons indicate, show that this L. D. S. Character exists in every land and among every people who accept and live the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ. 8. The American poet Longfellow wrote the following lines: "Lives of great men all remind us We can make our lives sublime, And, departing, leave behind us Foot-prints on the sands of time." A Psalm of 'Life. Point out to what extent the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 143 thought of these lines applies to any or all of the women studied. 9. The Belgian pessimist thought there could be no God in heaven for the reasons he stated. What is your explanation of the point he raised? 10. In former days ostracism and persecution followed those who joined the Church in the world. To what is due the change between those days and these? 11. The question is sometimes asked "does blood count?" After reading the foregoing lessons what is your answer? Give reasons for it. 12. Jeannette D. Crane is said to have been a "'natural-born" teacher. If she were such, what qualities and skills did she exercise to succeed in teaching? ' 13. What must a person do if he is to be a_ successful class-room teacher? 14. In Lesson 5, speaking of the Cannons, reference was made to the "Donner Party". Relate the circumstances of this ill-fated party on its way to California. 15. Also in Lesson 5 reference was made to the coming of Johnston's army to Utah and the "move south," etc. Relate the circumstances to which these references refer. APPLES ON A PLATE By Gertrude Perry Stanton "Why be so Victorian,"—do you say, "With a plate of apples on your buffet? Use a Wedgwood tea set, or Sevres vase; Those apples look so commonplace!" Perhaps they do—yet on memory's page I can see a child of tender age Who never had apples enough to eat, And the common fruit was her rarest treat. There was nothing tempting in her lunch pail; No wonder she seemed so small and frail. So now that I live where apples grow, In the cellar are baskets in a row, And always upstairs, on table or shelf, There's a plateful, so each may help himself. Every hungry youngster that enters the door May have one, or two, or three, or more; It may be old-fashioned and out-of-date, But ['ll still have my apples on a plate! MILK THE General Presidency of the Relief Society would like to impress upon mothers the need for milk, particularly for growing children. Relief Society Presidents everywhere are charged with the responsibility to see that no children suffer for lack of milk. "Milk is a food no one should do without, because it contains so many elements of a healthful diet. We should use it every day—a quart for each child and a pint for each adult is a good daily allowance, used either in fluid form or in milk products. It is important that growing children have plenty of milk. It is especially needed for good teeth and bones, as milk supplies in almost ideal amounts minerals that go into their composition. Adults of all ages need milk. "Milk is always a good investment even when very little money can be spent for food. We do not usually think of it as an energy food, and yet a quart supplies from two-thirds to three-fourths of the total energy required per day by a year old child; about one-half of the energy needed by a child of five; and about onefourth of that needed by a man moderately active. One cup of milk has about the same energy value as 2% eggs, or 3% ounces of lean round beef, or 8% ounces of string beans. "Milk should not be regarded as a beverage; it is a food. Sip it slowly; get the flavor out of it. Don't use it merely to quench thirst, and don't drink it rapidly. The gastric juice of the stomach causes milk to curdle shortly after you swallow it. If milk is drunk rapidly, the curds are large and tough and digestion is likely to be slow and difficult."— The Milk Foundation, Inc., Chicago. & Arden RED CAP Milk FINER FLAVOR AND QUALITY Call Wasatch 80 Visit Arden Dairy's New Modern Plant 1030 So. Main When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine You will want to read these— New Contributions to L. D. S. Church Literature THE LIFE OF JOSEPH F. SMITH MORMON COLONIES IN MEXICO By Elder Joseph Fielding Smith This splendid work on the life of the a ATT ell cee Soi ee, resident Smith by his son An outstanding record of Mormon aod be in every L. D. E: i. $2.50 achievement by Dr. Romney, a man who knows his subject and how to tell it. $2 50 PRIESTHOOD AND CHURCH WELFARE A new study course for the Melchizedek Priesthood Quorums prepared under the direction of the Council of Twelve $1.25 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF ANDREW JENSON A delightful book from the pen of the veteran Assistant Church Historian from a long life of interesting experiences. $3 50  TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH from a long life of interesting By Joseph Fielding Smith..... $2.00 Write for lists of other books DESERET BOOK COMPANY Another year has passed, and... Another volume of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE should now be in your hands ready to bind into an attractive book, convenient for reference and study. The price is only $1.50 per volume. This gives you a very fine and durable black cloth binding, gold stamped with an attractive design. We offer a discount to ward and stake societies sending us ten or more volumes at one time. Write us about this offer. The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah  ENJOYING LIFE The Outcome of a Beneficial BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY HOME OFFICES BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, President When Buying mention Relief Society Magazine Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Deseret News Press.... Deseret Book Store.... Intermountain Beet Sugar Co. L. D. S. Business College.. American Lady Baking Co.. Porter-Walton Co..Bennett Glass & Paint Co.. To our advertisers and our comments "But if any provide not for his own, and especially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel.' Paul. A firm with the facilities and personnel for excellent work on both small and large jobs. The store with many fine services. Most of them available to you through the mail. An industry worthy of the support of all interested in the prosperity of the Intermountain West. An excellent place to send your children who have not yet found a place in life. A well operated bakery performing a worth while service. Get out-of-doors with a garden. It's time to clean up and paint up. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MORE THAN 40,000 SUBSCRIBERS Outstanding Church Books at REDUCED PRICES - ANCIENT APOSTLES David O. McKay. Regular Price $1.25. Now 79c OUR CHURCH AND PEOPLE John Henry Evans. History of the Church for Boys and Girls in their teens. Regular Price $1.25. Now 79c CHILDREN OF THE PROMISE John Henry Evans. Old Testament Stories. Regular Price $1.25. Now 79c THESE ARE AVAILABLE NOW. FOR APRIL CONFERENCE WE WILL HAVE READY "INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF THE BOOK OF MORMON' By J. M. Sjodahl, for $1.00, Published to Sell at $3.50 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple APOSTLES OF JESUS CHRIST Edward H. Anderson. Regular Price $1.25. Now 79c¢ WHAT JESUS TAUGHT Osborne J. P. Widtsoe. Regular Price $1.25. Now 79c Now is the time to add some worthwhile Books' to your Library at a big saving of money. Salt Lake City, Utah "L. D. S. Training Pays!" Business Training Character Education Personal Development L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City Ask for "Bulletin of Information" FISHER' vitamin "D" BREAL is a muscle building food. Is nearly 100% digestible. Is a nonfattening food. It helps get iron from other food. Helps build good teeth and strong bones. Gives quick energy and sustained vitality. Ask your grocer for it.: Product of American Lady Baking Co. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVI MARCH, 1939 No. 3
Contents
Special Features
MEMBERS COVERED 145 Frontispiece Photo by Wayne Richards 146 Welcome Your Tasks President Louise Y. Robison 147 Days At Harmony Gordon Burt Affleck 149 Relief Society Ward And Branch Presidents Counselor Amy Brown Lyman 156 The Joy of Creating Counselor Kate M. Barker 159 Relief Society, A Significant Woman's Movement Gen. Secretary Julia A. F. Lund 161 Emma Smith Church Hymns Audentia Smith Anderson 163 Today's Youth William Peterson 165 Aaronic Priesthood Activities Joseph L. Wirthlin 170 Women We Should Know (Lydia S. Clawson) Ramona W. Cannon 172
Fiction
How Poor A Thing (Short Story) Mabel Harmer 177 The Shining Heart (Cont'd) Sibyl Spande Bowen 186
General Features
The Body's Need For Mineral Salts Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe 181 Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 191
Editorials:
That Which Is Ours 192 Dr. Ellis Reynolds Shipp 194 Notes from the Field General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund 195 Music Department 200 Our Homeland Beautiful 214
Lessons
Peter, the Head of the Church 202 Healthy Mental Attitudes As Taught by Jesus 206 The Late Nineteenth Century to Date 207 Relationship of Children in the Home 210
Poetry
River Song (Frontispiece) Vesta P. Crawford 146 "That Is Success" 148 Stradivari's Violins 160 How Wise Olive C. Wehr 171 Spring Fever Zara Sabin 190 Awakening Celia A. Van Cott 199
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
THE COVER
THROUGH the courtesy of Honorable Bryce B. Smith, Mayor of Kansas City, we reproduce "The Pioneer Mother" as a cover design for our Anniversary issue. This piece of sculpture is located in Penn Valley Park and was given to Kansas City by Howard Vanderslice and is the work of A. Phimister Proctor, New York sculptor. Believing that whoever increased the beauty of his community also increased the character, wisdom, and happiness of its citizens, Mr. Vanderslice presented this monument to the city in commemoration of his mother who, with unfaltering trust in God, suffered untold hardships of pioneering when in 1857 she braved the unknown West that a homeland of peace and plenty might be established for posterity. The monument is not only a tribute to his own mother but to the spirit that pioneer motherhood typified. The sculptor has truly caught the spirit of the old unsettled plains and its trail blazers in his work. He has put into it an eloquence not very often expressed in this medium. At a distance as well as near it, one feels a forward pushing movement. On the stone pedestal, which supports the figures, are carved the words of Ruth: "Whither thou goest, I will go, and where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people and thy God my God." This statue is considered one of the finest of pioneer life in America and one of the most important sculptured groups ever presented to an American city.
RIVER SONG
Between its banks of leafy green. The faithful river flows. Between the bars of myriad days. Down to the sea it goes.
With glint of sunlight on the shore And silver on the tide, With voice of praise and song of peace, The waves in splendor glide.
The Susquehanna cleaves the hills, It sweeps past Harmony— And brings forever to our hearts A sacred memory.
—Vesta P. Crawford.
The Susquehanna River at Harmony (now Oakland), Pennsylvania
The Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XXVI MARCH, 1939 No. 3
Welcome Your Tasks
By President Louise Y. Robison
IN brief terse statements the Prophet Joseph Smith gave to the world some of the most stimulating ideas ever given mankind. Having positive knowledge that spiritual progression depends upon effort, one can almost hear the Prophet's stirring voice when he said, "And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come;" and at another time, "The glory of God is intelligence."
We have been given the ideal pattern of life through the earthly mission of our Savior, who taught us that service to humanity is the way through which we might have "life more abundantly". Life compels us to some action by the necessity of humanity to eat and sleep, but we have our free agency in deciding the quality of our endeavor and the manner in which we accomplish these obligations. Opportunity for service, by which we gain knowledge, is all around us, but earnest effort is imperative if we rise above the mediocre in any endeavor. If as earnest attempts were made in helping solve the problems of underprivileged children, of making happier homes, and of giving courage to the heavy-laden, as are made in material inventions over which men plan and give their best thought, there would be fewer discouraged people. It is certainly as necessary to put our best effort into building lives as into material inventions which may be discarded in a few years' time, while souls are eternal.
In all ages strong people have helped the weaker ones. Many women, without special calling, have given their time and effort for the benefit of neighbors and communities. Since Relief Society was organized, however, women have been called to definite fields of service and have been set apart to those positions by men holding the Priesthood of God. This gives greater opportunity for development, but it also brings corresponding responsibility which cannot be met by haphazard service. There is no easy road to success in any position—from member to president; each activity calls for thoughtful, prayerful consideration. Sister Amy W. Evans has outlined the responsibility of Relief Society ward presidents as follows: "Acceptance of the position of
148 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Relief Society ward president carries with it the obligation to assist those in the ward who are in need. To meet this obligation successfully she must possess or cultivate the spirit of understanding and a sensitiveness to the sorrows and needs of her fellowmen.... We can scarcely overestimate the value of insight into and understanding of the motives of others. It brings tolerance and patience and gives one the power to suspend judgment until the facts are known.... Understanding is especially necessary when one is dealing with persons in need, be that need material or spiritual. It is seldom possible to recognize at sight the nature of another person's problems."
This would be a tremendous task if the president alone were called upon to know the economic and spiritual condition of each member in her ward, but the Organization provides for help in the well organized visiting teachers. A great responsibility is given to visiting teachers who, when fulfilling their calling as messengers of the president, bring to her a report of the general condition of the members. It is not the teachers' duty to inquire into conditions in the homes visited, but if they have earnestly studied the needs of each member, if they prayerfully desire to help, they will be able to interpret the needs of the family to the president. The strictest confidence is imposed upon the visiting teacher—she must never discuss conditions of homes visited. To do so is ample justification for her release from office. Visiting teachers have rare opportunity for growing spiritually; they rise to great heights by doing the simple, kindly things in the Master's way.
Sisters of the Relief Society! The office given to you is the opportunity to grow in intelligence and to gain that knowledge which will give you "advantage in the world to come". The degree of success depends upon your effort. The reward justifies your best endeavor.
"Welcome the task that makes you go beyond yourself, if you would grow."
THAT IS SUCCESS
Wealth, prowess, power, only the few attain, But this one triumph is denied to none, To say each night, computing loss and gain, "This was my task today, this I have done With all the power I could command, no less." That is success.
Time flies on phantom wings, But no man needs to count the passing years as forfeit quite. We live not in days but in deeds; Every passing year has left you in its flight New stores of wisdom, kindliness, tolerance, patience. That is success.
—Selected.
Days At Harmony
By Gordon Burt Affleck
"MY beloved Emma—she that was my wife, even the wife of my youth, and the choice of my heart," thus wrote the Prophet Joseph of his wife, nearly seventeen years after he first met her at her father's home in Harmony, Pennsylvania. And, despite the numerous and untold hardships, constantly moving, hiding, fleeing ever westward and beyond her home, often alone and greatly inconvenienced; and even though there were those times when her patience "snapped" and in despair she "murmured," the record is quite clear that through it all there was a genuine mutual devotion between Emma and Joseph. This natural, personal affection for Joseph was engendered in Emma at Harmony, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania and helped to carry her far in the path he was making. Of those early "days at Harmony" relatively little is known, but their significance can hardly be overestimated. Now, however, with the organization of a stake on the Atlantic seaboard, and with the annual Aaronic Priesthood pilgrimage from New York and the branches of the Eastern States Mission each May 15, it may not be an exaggeration to assume that "Harmony" will come into its own as a recognized landmark in the Church and Church history.*
But let us go back some years for a better understanding of Emma, her people and the place of her birth. The parents of Emma Hale were of revolutionary stock. Her father was fifth in a line from one John Hale (Heald) of Berwick-Upon Tweed in Northumberland, England. This John Heald was one of the "first settlers" of Concord, Massachusetts in 1635. His son Gershon was followed in turn by the grandson Samuel (Hail) Hale; Reuben, the son of Samuel, born at Oxford, Connecticut, served in the Revolutionary Army and on the twenty-ninth day of August, 1759, married Diantha Ward. Isaac Hale was the second son of this union, having been born at Waterbury, Connecticut, March 21, 1763. At the age of sixteen, Isaac did revolutionary service under Col. Ebenezer Allen. (A marker of the Sons of the American Revolution is now appropriately
*During the next year or two many members and friends of the Church will drive to the New York World's Fair. Surely they will want to make a tour of historical Church points along the way. For this reason it may not be amiss to note that as the settlements of frontier New York and Pennsylvania grew to the stature of "township," the names were often changed. So it was with Fayette, Seneca County, New York, and Harmony, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania. The traveler will note that Fayette, the place where the Church was organized, is now called WATERLOO, and road maps show it at the junction of U. S. Route 20 and New York route 5, and between Geneva and Seneca Falls, New York. Harmony is now known as OAKLAND, just across from the town Susquehanna, on the north bank of the river, 23 miles southeast of Binghamton, New York, on Pennsylvania route No. 692.
150 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
placed on his grave in the old McKune graveyard in Oakland, Pennsylvania.) The tomb stone reads: "The body of Isaac Hale, the Hunter, like the cover of an old book, its contents torn out, and stripped of its lettering and gilding, lies here food for worms; yet the work itself shall not be lost, for it will, as he believed, appear once more in a new and more beautiful edition corrected and amended."
Isaac Hale had been to what was then the West. So with the desire to push into new country in his blood, and his natural aptitude as a hunter, he took Elizabeth Lewis, his new bride, together with her brother and the brother's bride, and moved from New England to Susquehanna County in the northeast of the State of Pennsylvania. Elizabeth Lewis, Emma's mother, came from an equally important new-world family; she represented the sixth generation from George Lewis and the New England Lewises. Elizabeth was born at Litchfield, Connecticut, November 17, 1767; married Isaac Hale, September 20, 1790, at Wells, Vermont.
THE Isaac Hales in Harmony became the parents of nine children, six boys and three girls. Emma, the seventh child, was born July 10, 1804, at Harmony. Very little is recorded about the early life of Emma, though one would be well within bounds to say that she was a "churched" young
SCENE AT OLD MINE DIGGINGS, HARMONY
lady, having been under the parental guidance of a mother who was "for fifty years a member of the Methodist Church". Emma could ride a horse and did so to advantage on several occasions; she was able to read and write quite well as was evidenced by her pleading letter to the governor of Illinois in behalf of Joseph at the time the extradition papers had been signed for the Prophet's transfer to Missouri; she was both versatile and cultured, tall and striking, but with a definite air of femininity. Nevertheless, she was in her twenty-third year when she married Joseph after a difficult courtship of some fourteen months.
Three major factors contributed to this difficulty. In the first place, Joseph's introduction to the Hales in 1825 was as a "money digger". He had "hired out" to Josiah Stoal to dig for Spanish treasure and came to Harmony to work with the other "hands" in the search for a silver mine. About a half or three-quarters of a mile to the east and north of the foundation remains of the old Hale house can be seen the sizable hole dug in the hillside, in what is now a pasture. After one hundred and thirteen years this pit is real evidence of real work as claimed by the Prophet. The venture was abandoned in about a month at the suggestion of Joseph. During this stay at Harmony, Joseph boarded at Isaac Hale's and, of course, met and fell in love with the daughter Emma. However, the name "money digger" attached itself to Joseph with no uncertainty and with it a repulse from Emma's parents.
In the second place, "owing to my
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 151
continuing to assert that I had seen a vision," says Joseph, "persecution still followed me, and my wife's father's family were very much opposed to our being married." Then, too, Joseph left Harmony before Christmas, 1825, and the opportunities for association were few, and the distance between Joseph and Miss Hale was no small factor in the way. (Palmyra being some 125 miles by roadway, over hills, through the woods, and along the stream beds.)
Another unwarranted attack on the character of Joseph came when, because of family opposition, the young couple went to South Bainbridge, Chenango County, New York, and were married by Squire Tarbill on January 18, 1827. Despite the fact that Emma was over twenty-two years of age, and had, under the law of Pennsylvania, attained her legal majority, Joseph was thereafter branded as an "abductor".
The following August, according to the purported affidavits of Peter Ingersol and Isaac Hale, dated December 8, 1833, and March 20, 1834, respectively (both referred to as "purported" affidavits because of their appearance in Howe's discredited book, "Mormonism Unveiled"), Joseph and Emma returned to Harmony for a visit and were then invited to move to Harmony to make their home.
IN December, 1827, the young couple moved to Harmony and lived for a short time with her people. The translation of the Book of Mormon was commenced immediately in an upper room of the Hale home. Joseph purchased thirteen and one-half acres from his father-in-law, on which was situated a small house. Brother Brigham H. Roberts says: "It was in this house that a large part of the Book of Mormon was translated. The house stands on the north bank of the Susquehanna River, two miles west of the Twin Rivers and is now not more than sixty feet from the New York, Erie and Western Railroad. The building... looks as though it would soon tumble down from rot and age." It didn't take long for Brother Roberts' observation to become a reality. In 1936 only the walls of the small foundation remained. The excavation was partly filled. Although very definitely there in 1938, the grass was growing in and around the remains so as to obscure it from casual view.
It was near this foundation landmark that the adult Aaronic Priesthood of the Manhattan Ward, on May 14, 1938, erected a sign which they had made at their home in New York City, one hundred and fifty miles southeast. The sign reads:
NEAR THIS SPOT JOSEPH SMITH THE PROPHET TRANSLATED THE BOOK OF MORMON 1829.
The man who owns the ground at the present time was not so certain that he wanted the sign erected. The Priesthood group had received what they thought was permission from the man's sister across the road. After some gentle persuasion on the part of President Frank Evans of the Eastern States Mission, coupled with a little bargaining power, an agreement was signed to let the sign stand. One clause of the agreement promised in substance that the owner would keep the sign up. In October, 1938, the sign was still in perfect order, and the assurance of its remaining was evidenced by additional braces and anchors placed there, no doubt, at the instance of the property owner.
IT was in the little house which stood at this place, the first-owned home of the Smiths, that their first son was born and died; it was here that Emma came so near to death's door; it was here that Martin Harris obtained, after much persuasion, the one hundred and sixteen pages of manuscript which were subsequently lost; it was here that on April 5, 1829, Joseph met Oliver Cowdery, in whose handwriting most of the original transcript of the Book of Mormon was written.
David Whitmer tells of an incident; it is not clear whether it happened at Harmony or at Fayette, but it is sufficiently close to warrant attention and is both interesting and instructive. One record of the story is found in a statement given in the Kelley-Braden debate. The statement was made September 15, 1882, to Wm. H. Kelley and G. A. Blakeslee and others by David, who was then upwards of seventy-six years of age, in response to the question: "What kind of a man was he (Joseph Smith) when you knew him personally?" The answer follows:
152 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"He was a religious, straight-forward man. He had to be; for he was illiterate, and he could do nothing of himself. He had to trust in God. He could not translate unless he was humble and possessed the right feelings toward everyone. To illustrate so you can see: One morning when he was getting ready to continue the translation, something went wrong about the house, and he was put out about it. Something Emma, his wife, had done. Oliver
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 153
and I went upstairs, and Joseph came up soon after to continue the translation, but he could not do anything. He could not translate a single syllable. He went downstairs. Out into the orchard, and made supplication to the Lord; was gone about an hour—came back to the house, asked Emma's forgiveness and then came
OLD HOUSE BELIEVED TO HAVE BEEN JOSEPH SMITH'S IN WHICH MUCH OF THE BOOK OF MORMON WAS TRANSLATED
upstairs where we were, and the translation went on all right. He could do nothing save he was humble and faithful."
Joseph had previously been taught the lesson of humility at Harmony when the Urim and Thummim were taken away from him at the time Martin Harris lost the manuscript. Joseph then turned to working on his farm and continued this even after the return of the "interpreters" in order to provide for his family;
154 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
this continued until the coming of Oliver Cowdery.
It was at Harmony that many revelations were given, among which are those recorded as sections 3 to 13 inclusive and 24 to 27 inclusive of the Doctrine and Covenants. Of transcendent and immeasurable importance was the appearance of John the Baptist, a resurrected being, the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood and the true order of efficacious baptism. This appearance was in the wilderness on the banks of the Susquehanna River, possibly between the house and banks of the river some 200 yards away.
Section 25 of the Doctrine and Covenants, given at Harmony in July, 1830, has always been referred to as foreshadowing the organization of the Relief Society at Nauvoo in 1842, and rightly so. The section also states the duties of Emma, even to the selecting of hymns, which the Lord said were pleasing unto Him and to be had in the Church. The revelation is likewise authority for women in the Church—even as missionaries: "and thou shalt be ordained under his (Joseph's) hand to expound scriptures, and to exhort the church".
THE Smiths lived at Harmony from December, 1827, to June, 1829, and only for short periods thereafter. In the eighty-six days, at most, between April 5, 1829, and their departure in June of the same year, most of the work and important events referred to had taken place. "But," says Joseph, "we had been threatened with being mobbed, from time to time, and this, too, by professors of religion, and their intentions of mobbing us were only counteracted by the influence of my wife's father's family (under Divine providence), who had become very friendly to me, and who were opposed to mobs, and were willing that I should be allowed to continue the work of translation without interruption; and therefore offered and promised us protection from all unlawful proceedings, as far as in them lay."
This would seem to offset the attack on Joseph in the affidavit purportedly written by Isaac Hale in 1834 and found in Howe's book. The old "Hunter" Isaac Hale was no doubt a strict, stubborn New Englander, but he believed in law and order.
The true power of prophecy was shown in that now famous experience of David Whitmer and Oliver Cowdery at the time David drove from Fayette, New York, to Harmony, Pennsylvania, to take Emma, Joseph and Oliver to the Whitmer Farm to complete the translation of the Book of Mormon. David had not met the Prophet as yet. Joseph and Oliver went out to meet David some distance from the settlement, at the instance of the Prophet. David later related the story as told to him by Oliver as follows: "Joseph had informed him (Oliver) when I started from home, where I stopped the first night, how I read the sign at the tavern; where I stopped the next night, etc.; and that I would be there that day before dinner, and this was why they had come out to meet me, all of which was exactly as Joseph told Oliver."
Joseph and Emma left Harmony. In 1831 they moved to Kirtland,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 155
AT SITE BELIEVED TO BE FOUNDATION REMAINS OF JOSEPH SMITH HOME
Ohio. They had little or nothing to do with Harmony thereafter. From Kirtland they went to Hiram, Ohio; Joseph visited Missouri, and they had a short season in Nauvoo, but with it all there was no pressing to return to Harmony save the memories of the past.
In 1833 the Smiths sold their thirteen and one-half acres at Harmony to Josiah McKune, Jr. In May, 1938, the present owner insisted that the original deed to Joseph from Isaac Hale, recorded in 1830, was then in the possession of an attorney in Binghamton, New York, a few miles northeast of Oakland (Harmony). Be this as it may, the remains of Le Chasseur—the hunter—Isaac Hale, who died January 11, 1839, those of his wife, Elizabeth Lewis Hale, who died February 16, 1842, and the infant son of Joseph and Emma lie in the old McKune cemetery, which is between the sites of the old foundations of the Hale and Smith homes at Oakland, once known as Harmony, Pennsylvania.
Relief Society Ward And Branch Presidents
Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
AS we approach the birthday of Relief Society, let us offer a special tribute to the ward and branch presidents of the Organization—to those of the past who from the beginning and all down through the years have borne the chief burdens in the local units; and to those of today who are so willingly assuming these responsibilities.
The general supervisory work of the Relief Society is centered in general and stake governing boards, but the detail work, which is the real work of the Organization, is carried on in the wards and branches, which are the vital, pulsating units of the Society. It is here that membership is held; that the educational program is carried on; that the welfare work is done; that contributions are received for charitable purposes; that cooperative community work is done. Under the direction of the local president the needy are contacted and provided for; the sick are visited; the sad and discouraged are cheered; the sorrowful and mourning are comforted; the dead are lovingly and tenderly clothed for their last rest.
The responsibilities and requirements of the Relief Society president are many and exacting, but she assumes and carries them willingly. Her office makes great demands on her time, energy and ability. She is usually the busiest volunteer worker in the community. Her work is comparable in many respects to that of the bishop. She is called upon by night and by day for service. She should be broad in sympathy, tender of heart, charitable. She should possess wisdom and understanding, patience and tolerance, resourcefulness and executive ability. Above all else a president should have faith in God and a testimony of the Gospel.
Ward presidents are constantly challenged, but they are meeting the challenge bravely and successfully, as all who are acquainted with their work can testify. They have been important factors not only in charitable work, such as looking after the wants of the needy and sick, but also in constructive, preventive, community welfare. It would be as difficult to estimate the incalculable good they and their associates have accomplished in civic and community work as it would be to estimate what they have accomplished in the home and in the family. They have also helped materially in establishing the high standards which the Relief Society as an organization has attained, which are recognized both nationally and internationally.
As one travels both at home and abroad, it is interesting to observe the similarity in spirit and procedure to be found in all the local units throughout the Organization—whether in America, in Europe or in the Pacific Islands. Ward and branch presidents could be exchanged between countries as college professors are exchanged, and, providing there were no language difficulties, they could function effectively and efficiently. The president of either the North or South London branch, or of the Dublin branch, would be at home presiding over a Salt Lake City ward; or a president from a rural ward in Utah or Arizona could be exchanged with the president of the urban Washington, D. C., branch, and the work would go on smoothly. The training which the Organization gives helps its workers to be resourceful and self-reliant, and it teaches them to think independently. The spirit of the office and calling seems to come to those who are assigned to do the work and to give them the necessary insight, poise and understanding and the desire to accomplish.
THE history of the Society is replete with records of the deeds of ward presidents and their associates. It would take volumes to enumerate them. The following instance will illustrate the work:
A young doctor with his wife and two small sons left their home in Salt Lake City for a large eastern center where the doctor was to continue his medical training. The wife and children were to stop on the way to visit a relative who was teaching school in a near-by western state, while the father was to continue his journey. A few days after the mother and children arrived in the small country town, the baby boy of two years became violently ill. The diagnosis was scarlet fever, and the small community was greatly exercised and even terrified over the situation,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 157
As there was no hospital of any kind in the town, the mother and sick baby were isolated and quarantined in a small, empty house on the outskirts of the village, which had been hurriedly prepared for them. A trained nurse, who happened to be in the vicinity attending a chronic invalid, was permitted by the latter to go to the desperate mother, who had never witnessed serious illness before. In two days the baby passed on. The nurse now felt it her first duty to hurry back to her patient, and so left immediately, leaving the little mother alone with all that remained of her precious child.
Overcome with grief and almost blinded with tears, the mother walked about the room and finally to the front door. Her eyes followed the path down to the little gate where she saw two strangers standing—women they were. Who could they be? And why were they waiting there? One of them beckoned to her and, as she approached them, offered her warm, nourishing food. They told her they had come to remain near her until further necessary arrangements were made and completed, also that they desired to prepare the clothing for the child.
As the distracted mother looked into the faces of the speaker and her companion, she wondered if they were ordinary human beings, or if they were real angels sent directly from heaven to succor her in the hour of her greatest need. This Relief Society president and her counselor had each suffered the loss of a child and could sense in a measure the sorrow of the desolate and bereft mother. They felt sure
158 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the little one was safe and happy in heaven and quoted to her the words of the Savior: "Suffer little children, and forbid them not, to come unto me: for of such is the kingdom of heaven." (Matt. 19:14)
As the day wore on, the mother pondered over this great act of human service. Then she remembered vaguely something of Relief Society work in her home village, how even her own mother used to be away visiting homes and doing things for others. But this had never appealed to her as being work that was very important. Now she understood what it all meant, and in her sorrow she resolved that she would join and support and work for Relief Society throughout the remainder of her life. She would feel blessed indeed if ever opportunity came to her to give any degree of the comfort to others which had come to her from these devoted sisters in this strange community far from her home.
IN contemplating the work of the Relief Society president, we are not unmindful of the fact that she herself is greatly blessed in her labors; that while she gives she also receives. Her work may be regarded as a real opportunity personally for growth and development, as is the work of every other officer and member of Relief Society. Some women who have assumed the office with great timidity, fear and trembling have, with the responsibility, gained in strength, knowledge, ability and power. They have grown in sympathy, tenderness and understanding — those graces which are so inspiring and endearing. Because of their faith, humility and unselfishness the Lord has also blessed them abundantly. Thus, while a great portion of their energies have been consumed in activities that have helped others, the process has added to their own strength and culture, and their own personalities have been developed and enriched. 'Their lives and labors have verified the truth which was proclaimed by the Savior. In speaking to and instructing His _ apostles he said: "He that findeth his life shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." (Matt. 10:39) Let us salute these great women —our 1,918 ward and branch presidents—on this 97th birthday of the Organization. Let us extend to them our sincere love and deep appreciation, and say, "God bless these lovable, intelligent, self-sacrificing, generous ones who are true to their trust and to their convictions." They will be sanctified and richly rewarded by their sacrifice and unwearied effort in doing good. Bek The Joy of Creating By Counselor Kate M. Barker You work that you may keep pace with the earth and the soul of the earth. "For to be idle is to become a stranger unto the seasons, and to step out of life's procession, that marches in majesty and proud submission towards the infinite.... "Always you have been told that work is a curse and labour a misfortune. "But I say to you that when you work you fulfil a part of earth's furthest dream, assigned to you when that dream was born, "And in keeping yourself with labour you are in truth loving life, "And to love life through labour is to be intimate with life's inmost secret."— Kahlil Gibran. SUCH a love of life through labor can only come when one finds work which is both a delight to himself and a value to society, and one only really loves the work in which opportunity is given for self-expression. In other words, creative work has always been a necessary part of a balanced life. Not that many can be geniuses and conceive great art, but many do have creative hands which can make objects of daily use more beautiful and enjoyable, so that their ownership becomes one of life's pleasures. Learning to appreciate and love the beautiful in little things of daily use enlarges one's horizon, and one learns to see the beautiful in all of life. I saw a piece of lace made by a peasant woman in Czechoslovakia. Life for this woman had been extremely hard, as it is for the women of her class. Her work was in the field—hard, manual labor. But she saw the beauty in the wild flowers which grew there, and as she worked she planned and designed lace patterns from the flowers, and each night her creative fingers knitted a bit of the lace. She said this rested her, and the little while she created beauty kept her from becoming embittered and helped her to see beauty in all of life. As the old Kentucky mountaineer said, "Hits better for folkses character to larn 'em to do things with their hands." In our country, with its mass production and glorification of the machine, we have too long watched articles being made lacking beauty and individuality and people losing not only the ability to create but also the appreciation of fine workmanship. THE Relief Society has always maintained that women should be given the opportunity of developing the skills of the hand and have kept one Tuesday each month for this training. Then came the depression and with it the idea: Why could the Organization not guide and stimulate good work and at the same time furnish the means for offering it to the public in a practical way? And so "Mormon Handicraft" began. It is still in its infancy, but the experience of the past year and a half has proven that if handled wisely it can become a real service to the Church. Already many women have found peace and joy in being able to find self-expression in the work. Because of having an outlet, with all profit going directly to the 160 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE maker, to many has come new courage as well as a means of supplementing the family income. Probably no group of people in the world has more potentialities for the development of a great handicraft movement than our own. Certainly none has such a variety of skills and traditions as we have, 'for we have skilled artisans from many different countries. But we have been unwise in that we have failed to build into our own culture the fine contributions which our foreignborn brothers and sisters have to contribute. Before it is too late, let us learn from them these fine skills, which have been proven throughout the ages to always make for better living; for creative hands make a happier people. If "Mormon Handicraft" is to succeed, if there is to be a worthy future for it, it must stand on its own feet. The articles placed in the shop must stand on their own merit. We cannot appeal to the public to buy because they are handmade. Many machine-made articles are better than handmade. We must accept the challenge and give to "Mormon Handicraft" articles those things that machinery cannot give— distinction, personality, and artistic charm. In design, decoration, and coloring the artist behind the work must be revealed. Only thus can it have personality which makes it a pleasure to possess. To help meet this need an advisory board has been called. This group is now working on_ several projects. So many women have creative fingers but need guidance in creative designing and decoration. We surely have inherited from our pioneer mothers and fathers a handicraft tradition of exceptional beauty and dignity. If this inherited culture is kept alive, developed and added to, it should bear rich fruit, which will mean much for human happiness. GEORGE ELIOT represents Stradivari as saying about his violins: "... When any master holds 'Twixt chin and hand a violin of mine, He will be glad that Stradivari lived, Made violins, and made them of the best. The masters only know whose work is good; They will choose mine, and while God gives them skill I give them instruments to play upon, God choosing me to help Him He could not make Antonio Stradivari's violins Without Antonio." Relief Society, A Significant Woman's Movement By General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund CCORDING to one of our A great modern thinkers, we Americans have experienced "seven adventures in pionecring": first, for spiritual freedom—the right to worship God as conscience dictates; second, for political freedom —the right to have a voice in the government under which we live; third, for educational freedom—a public school system with education for everyone; fourth, for racial freedom—the emancipation of the Negro and the forbidding of any type of racial enslavement; fifth, for freedom in the control of the forces of nature and industrial organization; sixth, for freedom from sex inequality—the granting of suffrage to women; seventh, still in process of pioneering, that the whole world may sometime be really free, and men and women everywhere live the life of free individuals. Women have been closely identified with all of these adventures and have played a noble part in their development. We may even suggest others that have been of particular interest: the adventure in temperance, which is the struggle to deliver humanity from the slavery of appetite; the untiring efforts to secure a basis for world peace, without which there can be no security or hope for other achievements. The most significant social adventure of the past century, in its various stages of advancement, is the woman's movement, which reached its culmination in the sixth stage of "pioneering". Relief Society is an excellent example of this: It will soon be one hundred years since eighteen women, constituting the charter members, were organized into the Relief Society. Much has been written of this unique society of women and the spirit which was back of its organization—the uplifting of all humanity. Its record is one of splendid achievement, where women have sought to educate themselves and to organize for cooperative effort that opportunities for advancement might be provided, that childhood might be safer, that economic conditions might be improved, that justice and right might prevail, that happiness for all might be increased. The Relief Society, like the Church itself, is world-wide in its scope and has been recognized by the great organizations of women as a very important unit in the great woman's movement of the world. As a charter member of the National Council of Women, the Organization participated in the International Congress of Women held in Chicago in 1893 and again in 1933. President Louise Y. Robison, who is one of the members of the Board of Directors of the National Council of Women, was one of the Chairmen of the Congress held in 1933, presiding at the session devoted to the subject, "Women in a Changing World," when Mrs. Emily Newell 162 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Blair, Associate Editor of Good Housekeeping, was the speaker. In June, 1934, President Robison was appointed as a delegate to the International Council of Women, which met in Paris. She not only represented Relief Society but went also as a delegate from the women of the United States,-and served' on some of the most important committees, notably that on "Equal Moral Standards". Counselor Amy Brown Lyman represented Relief Society at the International Congress in Yugoslavia in 1937, and again at Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1938. The Organization has sent its board members and officers to attend the National Conference of Social Work in its yearly meetings, where great social and moral questions are discussed. 'These contacts with the foremost organizations of the world are of immense value, giving opportunity to extend our work and broaden our vision of its scope. OUR seven General Presidents of Relief Society have all been women of destiny, especially fitted for the place and the time of their leadership, and each one has done everything possible to strengthen the Society and extend its usefulness. The various standing committees, in which all board members _participate, have always been most energetic and devoted in their research and in doing whatever has been called for in the different fields. Under President Louise Y. Robison many things of interest and importance have been accomplished. When the State Board of Public Welfare was created in Utah, President Robison was appointed as the only woman member of that Board, and has given valuable service in that capacity. She is also a member of the General Committee on Church Welfare, pledging, as she always does, whole-hearted support to this worthy plan. The educational program has been made uniform and given to the whole world. This constitutes a distinct bond of interest and sympathy. The lesson material is chosen with a view to presenting that which will be of the greatest interest and value to the largest number of women, and the material lends itself to adjustment to the tastes and needs of the different groups in all lands. As a source of great inspiration and help to class leaders, special departments covering the various courses of study are now held at sessions of the October Relief Society General Conference. As libraries are so essential to any educational movement, the preservation and accumulation of books for use in the wards has been urged. The marvelous development of the Singing Mothers groups is a beautiful expression of the talent of Relief Society women and their desire for culture and self-expression. The Mormon Handicraft department and the opportunities here offered provide another outlet for creative work in Relief Society. Health, employment, social service, spiritual welfare, education in every form, bette: homes, wiser patenthood, and other ideals consistent with Latter-day Saint standards, are the goals for which Relief Society is striving. Emma Smith Church Hymns By Audentia Smith Anderson (Granddaughter of the Prophet Joseph Smith and Emma Smith) EMMA HALE was born July 10, 1804, at Harmony, Pennsylvania, and on January 18, 1827, became the wife of Joseph Smith, founder of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. From that day she was his faithful companion, counselor and helpmate, sharing fully in the toils, dangers and privations of his short but eventful life. Accompanying him on the memorable night in September, 1827, when he received, from an angelic messenger on Hill Cumorah, the ancient records of the Book of Mormon, from that moment she gave him full measure of sympathetic, intelligent cooperation in his efforts to preserve and translate them and to obey faithfully further commands of God. Many pages of the manuscript from which the first copy of the Book was printed are in her own clear, feminine handwriting, mute testimony today of her consecrated assistance in the task God had given her husband to do. That this writing must be done in the brief interims between busy household and farm duties, and despite weariness, or distress of body attendant upon child-bearing, only serves to emphasize the fine quality of her loyalty to the man of her choice and his Godappointed mission. It was fitting, therefore, that soon after the organization of the Church and her own baptism, she should receive, through him, a communication from the Lord. The message. Was one of encouragement and comfort, and served to strengthen her faith and reliance upon God, and her determination to, serve Him to the end of her life. A specific commission laid upon her in this divine message, however, directed her to make a selection of hymns for the use of the Church; "my soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads," said the Lord. Happily and with all diligence she entered upon the task assigned, applying herself with such zeal, despite arduous toil and poverty, frequent removals from one home to another, occasional weakness of body (her twins were born the following April and her son Joseph late in 1832) and unremitting assistance given her husband in his various enterprises, that in less than two years she had made a sizable collection. In May, 1832, a council of the Church "ordered that W. W. Phelps correct and prepare the hymns which have been selected by Emma Smith in fulfillment of the revelation." The following month there appeared, in Independence, Missouri, the first issue of The Evening and Morning Star, in which number some hymns were printed, presumably from her collection. Other hymns followed in the monthly periodical during the year, but in July, 1833, the printing press and much material were destroyed. Up to the time of that regrettable event 26 hymns had been printed, but there is no evidence that an attempt had been made to put them into the form of a book. The printing of the revelations, which was begun, 164 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE would doubtless have been given precedence over the publication of a songbook. Emma's collection made prior to this disaster must have been lost or destroyed, for after Brother Phelps returned to Kirtland, and the High Council organized in 1834, among the minutes of that body is' recorded, dated September 14, 1835: "Emma Smith was appointed to make a selection of sacred hymns, to be arranged and revised for printing by W. W. Phelps." Accordingly a collection was published under the title: "A Selection of Sacred Hymns, by Emma Smith," - and contained go songs. This may have been the "L. D. S. Collection" from which were chosen the hymns sung at the dedication of the Temple, in March, 1836, which are referred to by page numbers in the minutes of that historical event. Troubled years followed. With three small children Emma went from Ohio to Missouri, from which state, later, under the shameful extermination order of its Governor, she fled to Illinois, her little flock now numbering four. The same year of the settlement at Nauvoo, 1839, the Joint Council voted "that Sister Emma Smith select and publish a hymnbook for the use of the church," and in 1841 this was done. It was of "'vest-pocket" size and contained 304 hymns, among which were many that are: still familiarly sung in our churches. Emma was well educated for the times in which she lived, and used discriminating and admirable taste in choosing her songs. Some were old standard favorites in use in other denominations, but many were written by various members of the Church for use on special occasions, or under the gentle impulsion of divine inspiration. Her ability along musical lines— or was it a gift bestowed when she was divinely called to the work?— was recognized by the Reorganized Church, which she joined in 1860, and she was requested to make a selection of hymns. This she did, and a collection of 249 hymns was published. Three years later another edition, consisting of 286 hymns, was printed—a result, doubtless, wholly or in part, of her interested labors. Emma Smith possessed an unusually fine voice. Often in the assemblies of the Saints she would accompany the congregational singing with an improvised obligato, her clear, high soprano soaring, true and beautiful, above the harmonies of the ensemble tones below. Fond of music, she sang about her work, with her children and neighbors. Often of an evening a small group of friends, gathered in her home or on its porch, would comfort and encourage themselves and each other by singing together the songs of Zion. 'This love of music she bequeathed to her children, and children's children. Her youngest son, David, was called ""The Sweet Singer of Israel," his gift expressing itself both in songs and poems. Emma's oldest son, my father, shared his mother's love for music and song, and gave his children such advantages of study along those lines he could afford. His own voice, much like his mother's, had that peculiar, vibrant, ringing quality that made it easily heard even in the songs of large assemblies. Today's Youth By William Peterson (Director Extension Service, Utah State Agricultural College) HERE is no greater problem facing Utah today than that connected with proper adjustment of its young people. Facts disclose that more than four thousand young people in the State of Utah, past the age of high school training, are 'at present unattached and without employment. Statistics indicate that from the rural sections alone more than 2,400 young people are reaching the age of 21 each year. One county planning committee in its survey disclosed that there were 240 married couples without employment and without any home attachments, about 700 young unmarried men and some 680 young unmarried women living at home but ready to take on the responsibilities of life. At present they have no jobs and no earnings. Courage is needed to face this situation. Survey of the farms of the State indicates that many of the farms have from two to four times more labor available than is necessary to operate the farm. Still these people must have a living, and it is a tax on the farm industry to support people far in excess of those necessary to operate the farm. The same is true of the ranches having herds of cattle and sheep. It is not unusual to find a sheep investment called upon to support four or five families when half this number could perform all the labor necessary to take care of the herd. The school system in Utah is rated as being among the best in the land. Students are compelled to attend school from the time they are six until they are 18, unless they graduate from high school in the interim. This training is being carried at a high cost in comparison to the wealth of the State. Every student who graduates from high school— and all 'students have this opportunity—requires an investment of about $800 to finish the twelve grades. This is a complimentary arrangement, and the State can be justly proud of such an achievement and of offering such an opportunity to all who grow up in Utah. But after graduation from high school, what is the outlook: A very substantial number of these students do not go to college. With some it may be a lack of scholastic aptitude, with others it may be financial reasons. Others may feel they want to assume the responsibility of establishing a home. Many young people spend time waiting and complaining because nothing is offered to them. Competition for work and jobs has grown very keen, and each young person must get the concept that it is going to be largely due to his personal effort if he lands a satisfactory position.
UNFORTUNATELY, some false notions have grown up that only certain vocations are acceptable in modern society. The feeling is that one must choose a profession—be a lawyer, a doctor, or a banker. It should be clearly understood that one vocation is as dignified and satisfactory as another, 
166 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
if it is operated on the same scale of efficiency, honesty and integrity. The position of a good farmer is just as dignified as that of a banker or a doctor, if his work is carried on with the same efficiency, and he should be rated just as high and should be just as acceptable to society. The same is true with the artisan or the tradesman. There seems to have been a tendency in our educational methods to divert effort from the trades—away from the use of the hands. It would seem consistent to say that the time has come when young people should look with favor on a greater use of their ability to use their hands. The history of Utah is rich with reports of fine artisans who came here in early days—men who knew how to build—fine mechanics, masons, rock cutters, wheelwrights, millwrights, etc. The present generation are the descendants of these men and women and should be well trained and well adapted to handicraft. There are those who question whether our schools are giving full, rounded development. The curriculum is made essentially by school teachers, and some say, essentially for the training of school teachers. Of course, there was a time when advanced training did not apply to those who were going to till the land or go into the trades; they should learn by experience and be apprenticed. That day is past. The best training that the schools can give should be used to stimulate craftsmanship in any aptitude which the student seems to possess. If one is going to enjoy the greatest happiness in life, he should do that work in which he finds the greatest enjoyment. If you look about, you will find a lot of men who say that they have a "hobby". The "hobby" often means that the man has to do certain work in order to earn a living, and he does certain other things because they are the things he likes to do. What a happy position that individual is in who is able to combine the earning of a living with the thing he likes best.
THERE should be a definite effort to stimulate handicraft in the young people who are growing up in the State of Utah. One step which will promote this thing is to have a well equipped shop in which young people can work. The shop should be so positioned that the boys can do what they are inclined to do, and be large enough to have their associates visit them at their work. The shop does not need to be elaborate. It should fit the inclination of users. It should have a good work bench with a vise for holding boards and an additional vise for metal work. It should be equipped with some good tools—not a lot of tools. The boy should learn to appreciate and take care of tools and handle them so they are always sharp, clean and ready for service. The shop should be equipped with an oilstone, files, hack saw, hammers, planes, wood and metal chisels, etc. If the young boy who works in the shop is inclined, he may fit it with leather tools and sewing horse. The boy should be allowed something with which to work—either boards or metal. Of course, the boys will spoil some things, but it is very much better to have one or two boys spending their time in a shop trying to make something than to have them loafing and prowling around in other places. A shop and an inclination toward use of the natural resources that are about us might lead to the development of tradesmen and artisans who will be outstanding in the community. It would be ill advised for anyone to indicate what all boys and girls should do. Yes, girls should have access to the shop as well as boys. Girls can build; they can paint and give expression to their special artistic ability.
One may ask what this shop could afford that would be useful. Look about us and see what we have outdoors. Thousands of dollars worth of cedar chests are sold in the State of Utah each year. The cedar in these chests is the same that is contained in the mountain junipers. The mountain juniper is known generally as cedar. The preservative quality of the wood is the strong aroma of the cedar oil it contains. Spread over the State are literally many thousands of trees sufficiently large to saw into boards which might be converted into chests for preserving clothing. This wood is actually the same material that is found in the expensive cedar chests sold on the market, except the expensive chest has a veneer of attractive wood glued on as an outside cover. (Young people might even try making the glue.) Trimmings and equipment vary with the type of chest. Native cedar-wood chests offer a preservative receptacle for the clothing in each home. The young man or young woman with unusually mechanical trends may develop something especially attractive for the market.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 167
Only recently a man made a trip from the north end of the State to the south end to visit a gentleman who makes oak chairs seated with woven rawhide. These chairs were taken back to New England. When asked why he visited the Dixie area, he said it is the only place where such chairs can be obtained, and they are prized very highly except at home.
Utah is a mineral state and always among the first two or three states in production, but silversmiths are few and not known in most localities. Both boys and girls with mechanical abilities could profitably busy themselves in shaping and forming silver into jewelry and ornaments. Ninety-one years ago the Wm. Rogers Company came into existence in a small shop not well equipped. Effort need not be confined to silver, but silver adapts itself to the forming of bracelets, rings, brooches, silver plating etc.; and associated with it may be used Utah stones. Variscite, a highly colored aluminum phosphate, procured in the Stansbury mountains, has been called "Utah stone". The rough stone can be obtained at little expense. The shaping of this into settings that would be satisfactory for jewelry is an invitation to the finest craftsmanship. Other minerals might be obtained. Topaz crystals on Topaz mountain have been mostly investigated and surveyed by people outside of the State. Recently there was published a rather fine description of the conditions on Topaz mountain. The search for these stones in that locality might be as lucrative to inexperienced people as to others who have
168 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
spent years there. Utah abounds in silicified wood, opalized wood, even high-grade opals that could be readily cut and shaped for jewelry. Copper is abundant and could be easily obtained for shaping. It might be interesting to young people to go to the library and look up William T. Baxter's handbook, "Jewelry, Gem Cutting and Metalcraft". This may give a lot of suggestions. Utah abounds in other minerals that might be shaped and put on the market. Many of the ores are attractive. Elaterite and ozocerite can be formed into all kinds of attractive decorations. A well equipped little shop and a few tools with a grinding wheel for working such material might easily lead to a satisfactory industry and a vocation for life. There is always someone about who can help and offer suggestions. Electricity is easily available and may be used for machinery and metal plating.
TO boys who live on farms there is an important challenge to select and do those things that are needed most. Why not try growing seeds—garden seeds, flower seeds, or better grain seeds for farm planting? Clubs can be formed for this purpose either through the 4-H club organization or the Future Farmer organization. This is fascinating and profitable. Most boys and girls have been interested in forestry but mostly in identification. Every year many trips are taken into the wilds of the mountains, but too often these trips are only a test of endurance and for sociability. Too often this sociability should be guided more carefully. In Utah there is the appeal of the out-of-doors. The out-of-doors may be associated with people and craftsmanship. It might probably be the ambition of each young boy to make a first-class hunting knife for himself. This can be shaped from a good piece of steel or a retempered file ground into the shape desired and handled with real buckhorn. Even if the buck isn't killed by the maker, horns can be found on the mountains and can be carried back and sawed into the shape desired. These knives, if well made, could easily be marketed and bring a profit for the effort. They would be much more attractive with a good leather scabbard. More work could be done with livestock. And poultry. There are over the State a few very fine herds which have developed from the selection of a single, young, pure-bred calf. The result signifies the interest and stick-to-itiveness of the young people going into the project. Fewer people are going into the trades than in earlier periods. Often boys will do some carpentry or other work in school but fail to see the advantage of taking up such work as a trade. We must have mechanics, butchers, tailors. Thousands of men have their suits made by tailors, but I have not noticed a young man going into the tailor's trade. I am sure there is an opening there.
THESE opportunities in craftsmanship induce effort and clean wholesome thinking, while in many cases if not taken up the person is likely to be somewhat idle. Being idle is not conducive to character building. There is an old adage that one is what one thinks. If one
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 169
is occupied with problems which are constantly challenging him to make a supreme effort, he cannot help but be better in consequence. The advantage of working with nature is that nature teaches a lesson of absolute honesty. It responds according to law and order. Let me emphasize that clean, honorable people develop from doing things which are clean and honorable, and that one vocation is not better than another, except as the individual makes it so. There are throughout the State organizations of young science groups or home making groups. These have their advantage. They provide a chance for discussion as to what is best and what is most desirable. In these groups ideals are formed; character is built through a more comprehensive outlook on life. I believe it is both profitable and elevating for young people to not only get the best education their conditions will afford but also to get the best training their inclinations will permit. Henry Wallace, grandfather of our present Secretary of Agriculture, defines education as follows: "Education after all is simply the fitting of the eyes to see, of the hands to work, of the mind to perceive the truth, of the tongue or the pen to express it. And it is by the practice of all these that we educate ourselves and become strong and clear-headed men."
Dr. C. B. Smith, who for many years has been chief of the Extension Service at Washington, has become a friend and philosopher among young people. Dr. Smith says: "The abundant essence of religion is service to men. No man can live the abundant life without being in a substantial measure religious, giving whole-heartedly and joyously of himself and his goods in the service and welfare of his fellow men.... The abundant life is promoted by knowledge: knowledge of things that surround us, knowledge of science, philosophy, literature, music, the arts, song and rhythm, with the hands in handicraft and otherwise. The life is promoted by the opportunity at times to be alone in the hills, in the storm, beside the sea; at other times to mix with the crowds and be a part of a social gathering—the convention, the group, the camp, the recreation center. In this new era we should not be content until all men shall have an opportunity to have some work, some income, some leisure in order that they may have a part in the abundant life contemplated for each man from the beginning."
If our young people expect to succeed, be happy and satisfied, they must give abundantly of their own effort. They must be willing to pay the price for the reward expected. Above all during those younger years they must make a reputation which will last them for life, a reputation for honesty, integrity, fair dealing, and a willingness to work. They should be true to their religious concept, accord to others that which they expect for themselves. They should study their own abilities and build on that which seems most promising and most abundant. Any profession or vocation chosen can be dignified and satisfying if sufficient effort and honor is put into it.
Aaronic Priesthood Activities
By Joseph L. Wirthlin of Presiding Bishopric
The following problem was brought to us by a mother: "My boy who now holds the office of Teacher in the Aaronic Priesthood is less active in his quorum than he was as a Deacon, preferring Scout and other group activities to those of his Priesthood quorum. Where does responsibility for this condition rest and how may the problem be adequately met?" Bishop Wirthlin's suggested solution is here presented:
THE life blood of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is activity. Activity is to the Church what the sap is to the tree. Prevent the circulation of sap in a tree—the leaves wither, dry up and fall; the branches become brittle and hard; soon the tree becomes gaunt, ghostly, and unpleasant to look upon. It is dead. Young men, bearers of the Priesthood of Aaron, must be free partakers of this great dynamic force in the Church, which stimulates faith, lays a foundation for a testimony, and precludes all that is evil. That force is activity. The lack of Church activity is inevitable spiritual death. The salvation of the youth of the Church is inseparably associated with Priesthood work. Priesthood is the authorized activity in the affairs of the Kingdom of God.
To sustain the Aaronic Priesthood membership in their active interests, there are several factors to be considered:
First, the home and all of its relationships to young men, particularly the example set by the parents in their activities, encouragement to be dependable in Church assignments, commendation for achievements. Point out the power of prayer. Joseph Smith said, "Teach them to pray. The prayer of youth availeth much." Close cooperation between parents, bishopric, and Lesser Priesthood supervisors is of paramount importance.
Second, the great need of the hour is prepared, inspired leadership for young men. A noted authority on Lesser Priesthood work states the case clearly in the following excerpt: "We often speak of a boy problem, but it is a man problem. When a supervisor is efficient, prepared, interested, and awake to the needs and view points of the boy, there is no boy problem. An interested supervisor will meet his quorum Sunday morning in consideration of assignments, recitations, checking up, but his real work is during the week, between meetings, checking up on absentees, encouraging the boy who may have lost his interest in Priesthood work, and assisting boys who may have personal problems.
Third, if the Lesser Priesthood Extension Plan is in operation, every boy in the ward will be accounted for, in some activity of the ward. Should a Priest, Teacher, or Deacon manifest more interest in Scouting than in Priesthood work, it is the difference between a prepared leadership and an indifferent one. It is the difference between a well developed program of activities and one which has received no consideration. I would say that mothers who have difficulty in having their sons attend to Priesthood duties should first take an inventory of the home and see that it is in order; second, if the ward supervisor fails, consult the bishopric; third, cooperate fully with all organizations in the ward that are interested in boys.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 171
Young men demand the positive things in life. They must have activity. They are searching for adventure. These three are found in Aaronic Priesthood work: positive principles of life and Life Eternal, activities by the score, and adventure in searching out the truths of the Gospel. Activity is the life blood of the Church.
HOW WISE
By Olive C. Wehr
How wise is man! His wisdom has added years To his life span. He achieves to conquer Adam's curse And to alleviate Eve's distress; He has verily learned to create Human comfort and happiness.
How wise is man? He has wantonly created, As only man can, For himself and for his generations, The ways and means that destroy Mankind, body and soul, and rob Life itself of meaning and joy.
How wise is man? How good is he? O God, in thy goodness Judge mercifully!
Women We Should Know
LYDIA SPENCER CLAWSON—WIFE AND MOTHER
By Ramona W. Cannon
"LAY me on an anvil, O God! Hammer and beat me!" cries the modern poet, Carl Sandburg. Sister Lydia Spencer Clawson was much too young to make any such request when her own shaping on God's anvil began. It came without invitation, and, as with many of our pioneer wives and mothers, the process was long continued and fraught with pain. Yet, Sister Clawson accepted her lot with heroism, and from the ringing blows of her life she emerged a character of finest, staunchest workmanship and beauty. From the first, she learned to master situations, however perplexing, rather than become their victim.
She was only eight when her father, the gentlemanly and beloved Daniel Spencer, died, leaving her mother, Mary Jane Cutcliff, one of his widows, with four small children to support. There was a time when each daughter had but one dress. Yet the children were kept clean, for their mother washed their dresses each night and ironed them each morning until the girls grew old enough to do their own and their mother's too. At nine Lydia was tending babies to increase the family income. At thirteen she regularly went out sewing. That she could make dresses was a chance discovery growing out of her attempts to master her first great obstacle, the lack of a dress to wear to Prissy Jennings' birthday party.
Prissy was rich, and she and the other girls would have lovely party frocks. Lydia determined to have one, too. But how? Most unexpectedly she appeared at the old Octagon House in the Thirteenth Ward, near her home, and asked to hem tablecloths and napkins. "You are too little," was the reply. "You might give me a trial," appealed the child. The trial led to what employment was available, but labor was cheap and dress materials expensive. Lydia did not earn enough to buy her material. Governor Woods' wife, a neighbor, knew the situation and left her sewing machine with Lydia while she went on a trip. The child could now cut by the thread and sew flour sacks from the factory at a penny apiece. Increasing her funds by making several hundred of these, she purchased some black and purple checked cashmere. But alas, her mother was so crowded with rush orders for dresses that she could not even offer more than the slightest help to Lydia. So the girl, not yet thirteen, laid papers on the floor and experimented with cutting front, back, and side gores until they looked right. She pinned the waist on her own figure many times before sewing. Fortunately, the dress and the party were a success.
This same spirit of determination not to be worsted, coupled with extraordinary ingenuity, dominated Sister Clawson's entire life. She found a way to set Rennie's broken collar bone when no medical help was available; to remove from her own throat the ulcers which were choking her when she had diphtheria; to manage Rudger Junior's convulsions when, weak from her own illness, she had no strength herself.
Soon Lydia was sewing, earning a dollar a day, which she turned over to her mother. Frequently, after a
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 173
long day's work, she would come home and cut out and make a Mother Hubbard. Quick and expert, she could complete one in two hours. "Ugly things, Mother Hubbards," confides Sister Clawson, "but they were in great demand, though I could never come to being seen in one myself." This pride in personal appearance has always kept Sister
LYDIA SPENCER CLAWSON
174 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Clawson looking the superior person that she is, and makes it a joy to meet her now in her seventy-ninth year, whether at home or on the street.
Lydia's family moved to Pleasant Green when she was still a young girl. She became secretary of the Sunday School and a visiting teacher in Relief Society. Sometimes an unprovided, expectant mother was found. The teachers would gather donations of money or materials, supply the rest from their own slender purses, and make a layette, with petticoats and dresses to reach from the mother's knee to the floor.
LYDIA, quick-witted, good-natured, a worker and a noted beauty, was frequently sought in marriage. But she was in no hurry. "I never want to marry an apostle, a stake president, or a bishop," she would say. "Things are too hard for the wives when the men have to be away so much. I want a good, genuine 'Mormon,' but I also want a mate." She drove so many other stakes that her family sighed, "Well, it looks as though we shall have to have some one made to order for you." But to Lydia one young man had long seemed made to her order—Rudger Clawson, who even qualified religiously, having no more important Church positions than those of ward teacher and home missionary. In the course of time these two were wed.
That was a difficult period, however, and Lydia continued to sew, using the cumbersome tin pattern-models in vogue. Then she became a pupil of the Mather sisters, who were teaching the drafting of paper patterns to fit the figure and conform to any desired style. Lydia, who had had some original experience along that line at the age of twelve, soon became expert. She was a favorite with out-of-town customers, because she required only one fitting to complete a satisfactory garment.
The birth of her first baby was a terrible ordeal in which Sister Clawson's life was despaired of. The child was always delicate. As the years passed, Lydia nursed him through many sieges of illness until at twenty he died of typhoid fever after his mother had watched him days and nights without removing her clothing.
Brother Clawson was only thirty-one when he was called to move to Brigham City to preside over Box Elder Stake. Here was Lydia, only a girl, face to face with the experience she dreaded. But now she did not flinch. She, too, like so many other women, must make her sacrifices for the carrying on of God's work. Certainly through Brother Clawson's ten years as stake president and remaining years as an apostle, her life was no easier than her forebodings had pictured it. Hers was the problem of rearing a large family with the father away much of the time. She nursed children through severe illnesses and did the extra work required of her. Her heart cried out in terror when a precious soul hung in the balance between life and death and the father could not be reached. Her spirit perhaps ached along with her body when her husband came in one evening with a group of men to be provided for only a few hours before one of her difficult births. But those were the days when traveling was slow and difficult, when there was a dearth of hotels, and when hospitality was less a matter of social interchange than of grim necessity. Her experience was not uncommon among women of the Church in rural communities. Sister Clawson's two characteristic comments about such times are: "Well, no one heard me complain about it," and, "I couldn't have done it by myself—a higher power carried me through."
The Clawsons' move to Brigham City was a dramatic experience. The train ran into a terrific blizzard and was stalled for three days. The family almost perished from cold and hunger. Finally, arriving in the dead of night, they found the station room locked. Rudger, weak and suffering from the inclemency of the weather, had to make his way a mile and a half to Sister Minnie Snow's home, harness a horse and drive back for wife, child and luggage. Sister Clawson, waiting, could only pace up and down in the icy blasts, carrying her heavy two-year-old child.
The Clawsons were not at first cordially welcomed by the people. This man was young, inexperienced, unused to country life, a stranger. Why should he be sent to preside over them? They received their answer in the wise guidance and the humility and beautiful spirit of Brother Clawson and in the helpful, lovable nature of his wife. The family income being meager, Sister Clawson at once began to sew again and was soon in great demand. She also raised chickens, sold eggs, and kept two boarders. During their eleven years' residence in Brigham
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 175
City, she gave birth to five babies, and once nursed herself through diphtheria, only to find that the delicate eldest child had contracted scarlet fever. Sister Emma Stohl, learning the situation, braved the two dreaded diseases and moved in to help Sister Clawson.
BACK in Salt Lake, with Brother Clawson an apostle, the family of seven moved into a small house. "But children want a nice home," says Sister Clawson. So she magically made room for nine boarders, and with the income began to build in the front yard a comfortable home where they still reside. Better times came. There were the years of presiding over the British Mission, where this experienced woman gave wise advice to the missionaries and the women. There were trips with her husband, visits to her married children in Washington, Chicago, and elsewhere. All of these have been delightful to her. Her zest for life is still keen, her observations quick and alert, her appreciation deep and spiritualized.
Sister Clawson chose the best of all careers—that of a true woman, wife and mother, whose price is still "above rubies." Her children have laughed and wept in her presence and have been comforted and sustained by her patient understanding and her delightful sense of humor. Affectionate always, she still stimulates them and spurs them on to achievement. They truly "arise and call her blessed." She feels that her days spent with them have all been "jewels strung on cords of love."
Nine human souls she has launched—like stately frigates—on the
176 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
stream of time that flows into the sea of eternity. Four of them early slipped over the brink; but they are still hers, waiting beautiful and unsullied for their parents. Truly her life has been selfless and sacrificial, yet most ample in reward. When memories of earthly riches, ease, power or fame are less than the dust to eternal souls, Sister Clawson, hand in hand with her husband, can look upon her nine beloved children with their posterity and say, "These are ours."
THE QUEST
By Elsie Chamberlain Carroll
The search for Beauty is a quest That ever lures the soul of man; In various avenues he's sought Since time in this old world began.
He sometimes cries, "I've found her. Now My quest is done. Behold her—Truth!" Again his shout of triumph rings: "Lo! Beauty is a name for Youth."
Another search and he declares She hides in Nature's varied guise, And may be found by anyone Who looks with eager, seeking eyes.
He often states that Beauty is A yearning of the soul, a dove That sits within the heart and sings The blisses of eternal Love.
He sees her as a little Child With smiling lips and eyes that trust; As Age that walks serenely on Though cynics warn, "The end is dust!"
It's true that he has found in each Of these some answer to his call; But in a lovely Woman he Will learn that he has found them all.
The beauty of her form and face He loves; and yet he holds supreme The beauty of her heart and soul. It lifts him like a glorious dream
To heights he thought he could not reach Without her to inspire—his Best. Within her womanhood she holds Consummate answer to his quest.
How Poor A Thing
By Mabel Harmer
CELIA HUNTER sat on the veranda of her lovely, white home drinking in the sheer beauty of a perfect May morning. The row of lilacs along the south side of the lawn were giant clusters of purple and beyond was the pink and white of an apple orchard in full bloom. The green lawn stretched away in front of her until it was met by the trim picket fence.
She glanced up the road now to see David Marshall's two little boys trudging along on their way to school, little Jerry's cap just barely showing above the top of the fence. As they reached the gate she waved as usual, but instead of waving back and going on, they opened the gate and came up the walk. Celia went down to meet them.
"Hello, boys," she greeted them. "How are you this morning?"
"We're fine," answered seven-year-old Bud, spokesman by reason of his one year seniority. "We thought that maybe you would give us some of your lilacs to take to the teacher."
"Why, of course. I'll be glad for someone else to have some of them. There must be hundreds on these bushes. We'll pick a big bouquet for each of you."
"Your flowers are prettier than anyone else's," Bud commented, as Celia began breaking off branches, "and your house is prettier, and I guess you're prettier."
"Thank you, young man." Celia was amazed to feel the color creeping into her cheeks because of a child's compliment. "And that was a very pretty speech. Do you think we have enough flowers now?"
"I guess so. Anyway we can stop by tomorrow and get some more," Bud answered complacently.
"Of course you can," Celia agreed with a smile, as she released the branch and turned around. And then noticing for the first time a rather large tear just below the knee of Jerry's trousers, she said, "Dear me, did you get that from my lilac bushes?"
"Naw," Jerry replied, quite unconcerned, "I teared it yesterday."
"But why didn't Betty mend it for you?"
"Betty's gone home. She doesn't work for us any more. There's a new girl coming tomorrow, and maybe she'll mend it."
It was plain to see that one tear in his trousers more or less meant little or nothing in Jerry's young life.
"Shall I do it for you?" Celia suggested. "If we hurry we'll just have time before you have to get to school."
"Well—I guess so," Jerry conceded, after a moment's hesitation.
"All right. Come up on the porch while I run in for needle and thread, and we'll have you fixed up in no time."
She returned to find the boys seated on the top step arranging the lilacs into two bouquets.
"I can't do a very good job on these while you have them on, but we'll mend them in some fashion."
178 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
A few minutes later the boys were once more on their way to school while Celia sat staring after them with yearning eyes. Poor little motherless tykes, she thought. Sometimes the "help" on the place took very good care of them, and there were other times when they were almost neglected. David did the best he could, but his own work was about all he could handle without doing more than was barely necessary for the boys. Viola's long illness, dating back to soon after Jerry's birth, had been very costly, as everyone knew, and since her death, two years ago, David had never seemed able to get quite "caught up."
It was queer the way things had turned out after all these years. She and David had grown up together on the neighboring places of their parents, had hunted the first flowers of the spring and the last colored leaves of autumn together. They had become engaged while they were still in high school. Then there had been that fateful evening soon after graduation when they had quarreled over something so trifling that she could scarcely remember afterwards what it had all been about. In her pique she had gone to the annual school picnic with a visiting boy from the city while David had taken Viola, blond and tiny with a doll-like face. The next day David and Viola had run away and married. No one but Celia knew what a blow it had been, but she held her head high and kept her heartache and disappointment to herself. But she had never been able to bring herself to marry anyone else. She had given all of her love to David. What his feelings had been after his hasty marriage no one had any way of knowing, of course. After the birth of the second little boy, Viola had taken ill, and they had scarcely ever been seen at the village gatherings.
Her musings were interrupted by Hilda, the Swedish girl who assisted with the housework. "Do I make chocolate or nut cake for the party tonight, Miss Celia?" she asked, appearing in the doorway with a dishtowel flung over her arm.
"Oh, I—" she was tempted, as often of late, to say that she wouldn't go. She was too old now to feel entirely at home with the unmarried crowd, and it was no great fun to dance with the husbands of her old school friends. But it wouldn't do to settle placidly down to old maidenhood and complete retirement, so she said almost brightly, "We'll have a chocolate cake, Hilda, but I'll come in and make it myself when I've had three more whiffs of this delicious morning."
IN other days Celia would have been very gay as she dressed for the party. She had a lovely new rose-colored crepe dress that matched the color in her cheeks and made a perfect foil for her dark hair. But new dresses, even gay ones that recaptured some of her lost youth, didn't make such a lot of difference now. She wondered, as did many others, why she stayed on in the little country town. In the city she could perhaps be a "bachelor girl" with a career or at least an exciting job of some kind. And she ended, as she had done a hundred times before, by assuring herself that it was because of the home. It had belonged to her father and mother, and they had spent a lifetime making it into the gracious, lovely thing that it was. She couldn't bring herself to turn it over to strangers.
Jed and Marcia Patten from across the road called for her at dusk, and they drove a short distance to the social.
"You take a whirl with Celia," Marcia said to her husband as they stepped inside the hall. "I promised to help in the kitchen for awhile."
"You bet I will," Jed responded enthusiastically, as Celia handed her cake to Marcia.
They had circled the hall twice when Celia's quick glance caught David sitting at one side. It was the first time she had seen him at a social gathering of any kind in years, and her first feeling of surprise was followed by one of sympathy for his careworn appearance. Poor David, she thought. He must indeed have been having a hard time. But on second thought, it was no worry of hers. He had chosen his own path, and if it had turned out to be a thorny one, he had only himself to blame. She caught his gaze intent upon her and was careful to keep her head turned in the other direction.
The evening was almost half over before he came to where she stood.
"Oh, hello, David," she greeted him in cool, even tones, as if they had never been on friendlier terms than that of the merest speaking acquaintance. "It's nice to see you."
"Thank you," he answered, and then after a brief hesitation, "may I—will you dance with me?"
"Of course, I'd be glad to."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 179
Pleasant enough words, except that the tones were much more polite than friendly, and the smile was far too brittle. David's arm around her once more! David's eyes were looking into hers with just a dash of that willfulness that she had learned to love so long ago, and that had been the cause of their undoing. But Celia's face reflected none of the tumult that went on within her heart, for more important than any of this was her pride—her pride that had been hurt so badly when David left her for another girl. So she kept smiling politely and carried on a meaningless conversation about people and things that mattered less than nothing. David left soon afterward, without waiting for the late supper, and Celia would liked to have gone too, for somehow or other the party had lost all its flavor and seemed utterly stupid.
THE following Sunday was Mothers Day, and as Hilda had been given the entire day off to spend at home, Celia stayed home from church to take care of the housework. She finished in a short time and spent the rest of the morning picking flowers and putting them into every vase in the house. It was one sure way of bringing sunshine into rooms that were too dull and quiet. But one could not pick flowers indefinitely, so without bothering to prepare any lunch, since she was all alone, she sat down in the living room with a magazine. She was glad when the doorbell rang. Interruptions of any kind were a diversion, but she was sur-
180 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
prised to see that her callers were Bud and Jerry, for they had never before ventured within her gate except when she was visible on the outside of the house.
"Come in, boys," she said, smiling down at them. "I suppose you're just on your way home from Sunday School."
"Yes'm," Bud answered. "Brought you something."
"Something for me? How lovely. What is it?"
"These." Bud held forth a large, square, white envelope, and Jerry promptly followed suit.
Celia opened the first one and drew forth a Mother's Day card. On the cover was a picture of a flowerbedecked garden gate. She turned to the inside and started to read the verse, but the title "Mother Dear" was all she could see through the tears that were fast dimming her eyes. "They gave them to us at Sunday School to give to our mother, but we didn't have a mother at home to take them to, so we thought we would bring them to you," Bud explained. Then a bit fearful because Celia had made no response, he questioned, "Don't you like them?" Celia dropped to her knees and gathered both boys in her arms. "Of course I do," she cried. "I love them, and I love you." A few minutes later the boys were on their way again, each with an orange in one hand and a piece of cake in the other, while Celia stood in the doorway looking after them "We with tears starting afresh now that there were no puzzled eyes watching her. WHEN the bell rang again half an hour later, she went back to the door to find David standing there. "Come in," she said, in some agitation lest there still be tell-tale traces of tears on her cheeks. "The boys just came home," he said, "and they told me. I'm sorry if they bothered you. They meant well, you know." "Of course they did," Celia teplied quickly. "It was sweet of them." There was a dangerous break in her voice. Oh dear, if she could only keep those tears back. This time. "Celia," David's voice was husky, too, now, "I've been an awful fool. I've been too proud to come near you because you have so much and I so little. Your home is so beautiful, while I—" "Why, David," Celia interrupted, “it is you who have much. What is my home compared to your boys?" David's face filled with a new light and hope. "Then you might be willing to— Oh, Celia, I love you so much." "And I you, David," she answered softly, as his arms went around her. "I, too, have been nurturing my pride, and what a poor thing pride really is!" "Too poor a thing to crowd out love," he said, as his lips touched her dark hair. OR The Body's Need For Mineral Salts By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe—University of Utah O refresh the reader's mind the T writer repeats that the three general purposes for which the body needs food are: to supply heat and energy with which to maintain the body temperature, and to supply the energy for the internal and external work; to supply building material for growth and for the maintenance and repair of the body tissues; to regulate the body processes. We learned that energy and heat are obtained from all of our foodstuffs: the carbohydrates (starches and sugars), fats and proteins. The body's chief sources of building material are proteins (meat, eggs, milk, cheese, nuts) and mineral salts. Water, vitamins and energy are also necessary for body building and tissue repair. Materials needed for the regulation of the body processes are obtained from all of our natural foods. COMPOSITION of the Human Body The human body is made up of approximately twenty elements. By elements is meant the simplest forms in which materials appear. These elements are named in the order of the greatest amounts found in the elementary composition of the body:* Oxygen, Carbon, Hydrogen, Nitrogen, Calcium, Phosphorus, Potassium, Sulphur, Sodium, Chlorine, Magnesium, Iodine, Copper. Many other elements are found in the body, and even though they Chemistry of Foods and Nuttition, Sherman. Appear only in very small amounts, they are important. SPECIF IC Needs of the Body for Mineral Salts 1. To Build and Maintain Body Tissues. Just as a building needs a strong foundation and a sturdy framework to support the weight that will be superimposed upon them just so does the body need a strong, well-formed skeletal or bony structure to carry the weight of the body and to protect its internal organs. In order to build this skeleton, mineral salts are necessary, the most important ones being calcium and phosphorus. A_ sturdy, wellformed skeleton is conducive to health and gives beauty of figure and graceful poise to the body. Mineral salts are necessary for the growth, development and maintenance of teeth. Mineral salts also enter into the composition of the soft tissues and fluids of the body but in much smaller amounts. 2. To Regulate the Body Functions. By regulating the body functions is meant the orderly working of the various cells, organs, glands, and fluids of the body. The internal work of the body is so intricate and so important to life itself that it must be accurately controlled. This control is largely the work of the mineral salts and the vitamins. Some of the important functions subject to mineral contro] are: (1) To make possible the ex- 182 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE change of body fluids from one part of the body to another. For example, the food that we eat is digested and changed into a soluble form within the digestive tract. This soluble food must then be carried through the walls of the intestines, and into the blood vessels which carry it to all parts of the body. Finally it passes through the cell walls, and it is in these cells that it is oxidized or burned. (2) To enable the muscles of the body to contract and expand, as in the beating of the heart, the breathing of the lungs and in the external work of the body. (3) Mineral salts help to make possible the oxidation or burning of our foodstuffs in the body cells. It is due to this function that the heat and energy bound up in our foods are released for the various uses of the body, such as maintaining the normal body temperature and performing the internal and external work done by the muscles. (4) One of the most important regulatory functions of the mineral salts is to maintain the normal, slightly alkaline condition of the blood and to give to the other secretions of the body their normal acidity or alkalinity. Some of the minerals, such as calcium, magnesium, potassium, and sodium are base forming or alkaline; and others, namely, phosphorus, sulphur, and chlorine are acid forming. By means of the interaction, largely of these minerals, the proper balance is maintained in the blood. It is vitally important to balance the diet in order that the body may have the right amount of acid forming and base forming foods which will insure the normal, slightly alkaline blood stream. Acid Forming Foods Meat (all kinds) Eggs Oysters Oatmeal Rice Wheat, whole Wheat flour White bread Base Forming Foods All fruits, except cranberries, prunes, rhubarb All vegetables Nuts, except peanuts Milk KINDS and Sources of Minerals Most Needed 1. Calcium an d_ Phosphorus. Among the inorganic elements, calcium and phosphorus hold first place. These two minerals are used together in forming bones and teeth. The bones contain 99 per cent of the calcium of the body and 70 per cent of its phosphorus. For normal bone structure a definite ratio between the calcium and phosphorus must be maintained. A disturbance of this ratio one way or the other will cause the disease known as rickets. (1) Special Functions of Calcium. Calcium has other important functions than bone and teeth building. It is necessary in regulating the action of the heart muscles. Calcium is necessary to the clotting of the blood. It preserves the normal response of nerve tissue to stimuli. Calcium is said to be the great regulator of all minerals in the body. Bones may be thought of as storehouses of calcium and phosphorus. 2 Chemistry of Foods and Nutrition, Sherman. This supply may be drawn upon temporarily when the diet does not supply sufficient amounts of these minerals for the body's needs. In growing children, where bones increase so rapidly in size, a liberal amount of both calcium and phosphorus must be supplied in the diet if strong healthy bones and sound teeth are to be formed. The amount of calcium required by adults as determined by H. C. Sherman is 0.68 grams daily; 1 gram daily for growing children; 1 gram daily during the last two months of pregnancy and 3 grams daily for the nursing mother. One quart of milk each day, together with other foods, fruits and vegetables suitable to the child's age, will insure an adequate amount of calcium. An adult should consume at least 1 pint of milk daily. (2) Foods Rich in Calcium Milk Cheese Hard water Vegetables, especially leafy Potatoes Egg yolk Nuts—almonds, Fruits Wheat bran (3) Foods Rich in Phosphorus Milk ~ Eggs Lean beef Wheat Dried beans Apples Oranges Bananas Cherries Dates Potatoes Carrots String beans (4) Special Functions of Phosphorus. Phosphorus is needed in all of the soft tissues of the body, hazelnuts RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 183 particularly in the brain and nerve tissue. The amount of phosphorus trequired daily by the adult is 1.32 grams and for growing children 1.5 grams. Phosphorus is much more widely distributed in both the animal and vegetable foods than is calcium. It is much more difficult, unless milk is used liberally in the diet, to supply the required amount of calcium than it is to supply phosphorus. 2. Iron. Iron is one of the most important minerals in the body even though it is required in relatively small amounts. The principle function of iron is as a constituent of the red blood cells. Without iron these red cells cannot be formed. Oxygen is carried by these red cells to all the tissues of the body where it burns the food, thus releasing the heat and energy that was stored in the food. The heat is used to maintain the normal body temperature, and the energy is used to perform the internal and external work of the body. Oxygen must be constantly supplied to all of the body tissues in order to sustain life. Iron deficiency is intimately connected with the disease anemia, which means that the blood does not contain a normal number of ted blood cells. This condition is very often brought about by an insufficient amount of iron in the diet. In many young, growing people, we note listlessness and lack of pep which is often attributed to laziness. As a matter of fact, the real cause may be too few red blood cells to act as carriers of oxygen to the body tissue so that the food can be burned and yield heat and energy. 184 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The body possesses little ability to store iron, so the daily diet must include the body's needs. This element is so important that Nature safeguards the welfare of the infant by storing sufficient iron in the liver during the fetal life to last the baby until it is old enough to cat foods rich in iron. Milk is deficient in iron. The amount of iron needed daily by an adult is 15 milligrams. Growing children require much more than adults. It is now thought that inorganic iron can be used by the body, provided copper is also present. As a general rule, it is better to provide a diet that will meet the nutritional needs for the minerals and vitamins; but occasionally the diet can be supplemented to advantage with inorganic mineral and the synthetic vitamins for the natural vitamins in capsule form. It has been determined that copper is necessary in order that the body may be able to use the iron. Foods rich in iron and copper arranged in the order of greatest amounts are: Tron ° Beef liver Chicken liver Beef muscle Apricots Peaches Raisins Apples Prunes Raspberries Spinach Beet greens Cheese Whole grains Copper Fresh calf liver Beef liver Nuts Dried beans and peas Whole cereals Dried fruits, especially yellow Poultry Fish Meat Green string beans and peas Leafy vegetables Fresh fruits, especially yellow 3. Iodine is necessary to the manufacture of thyroxin, a secretion of the thyroid gland. Thyroxin helps to regulate the rate at which the body burns the food. When there is insufficient iodine in the diet, the thyroid gland enlarges in order to provide a greater area through which the blood can flow and thus give the gland a better chance to secrete a greater amount of iodine. Women and adolescent girls are particularly susceptible to the enlargement of the thyroid gland when they live in a region where the iodine content is low in the water and soil. Utah water and soil are very defcient in iodine, thus the vegetables, cereals and fruits grown here are deficient in this element. Fruits and vegetables grown on the Pacific coast and trucked into Utah are rich in, iodine and have done much to relieve the people in the State of this disease. Inorganic iodine is often administered under the direction of a physician. Iodized salt is quite generally used for table salt. This also should be used only upon the advice of a physician, as toxic goiters are made worse by its use. Foods Rich in Iodine (where soil is not depleted of iodine) Sea foods, fresh and canned Iodized salt Vegetables Fruits Whole cereals 4. Other Minerals. Potassium and magnesium are important in nutrition. These minerals appear abundantly in a wide variety of plant and animal foods, so a diet adequate in other respects will contain an adequate amount of these minerals. Sodium chloride or common salt is extremely important in controlling body functions. This mineral is widely distributed in our foods. The practice of adding salt to our food as a condiment insures an adequate amount. The excessive use of salt should be discouraged. EFFECTS of An Insufficient ~ Amount of Minerals When one or more minerals are present in the diet in an insufficient amount, serious defects in body development and in the maintenance of body processes result. Deficiencies of different minerals produce different symptoms as follows: Calcium and Phosphorus, stunted growth, soft, imperfectly formed bones, poor, badly shaped teeth and rickets. Iron, anemia. Iodine, enlargement of the thyroid gland. GUIDES for Insuring a Sufficient Amount of Minerals in the Diet Milk and other dairy products, buttermilk, cheese, etc., should be used liberally in the diet of both RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 185 adults and children. Dr. Sherman suggests that as a measure of safety every growing child should have a quart of milk daily and adults one pint daily. Fruits and vegetables of all kinds should be used liberally. It is advisable to use fewer potatoes and more green vegetables. Fresh, green vegetables and the yellow fruits are the richest sources of the mineral salts. In order to insure an adequate supply of vegetables and fruits for all year use, the canned foods should be used. Eggs should appear frequently in the diet alternating with meat. Whole cereals are a good source of mineral salts. Cereals Made up of Whole Grains Oatmeal Puffed wheat Shredded wheat Whole cracked wheat Dark Farina Wheatena Grahain mush Whole rice Highly Refined Cereals Cream of Wheat Light Farina Corn flakes Cornmeal, white Hominy Grapenuts Pearled barley White rice Puffed rice Nutrition and Physical Fitness, Bogart. The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen CHARACTER DESCRIPTION AND RESUME—1ST INSTALLMENT IN the moldy decay of the old family mansion on Puget Sound lives "MISS BRILL" CAREY, spinster of 55, christened Brilliant Alaska in honor of her birthplace, and earning a sparse living as a seamstress. Her interest in life is centered in her niece, red-haired NELL CAREY, who has ambitions to be an artist. Lack of means to study and the opposition of her fiance are defeating the cause of art and hastening the day of her marriage to FRED NAGLE, practical, unromantic young chicken farmer, who believes money should stay in the bank and a woman should stay in the home. He is determined to see that Nell finds her place in his home. Miss Brill pockets her stiff Carey pride and asks her father's old friend, wealthy Philander Maddox, to give Nell a job in San Francisco, hoping the girl will develop her artistic talents and forget the stolid Fred at one and the same time. Miss Brill is convinced Nell does not love Fred. The old lady walks several miles in the rain to get some sewing to do, overdoes her frail strength, and is found on the road in a dazed condition by Nell and Fred. Nell's joy at learning of the promised job is overshadowed by anxiety over her aunt's illness. That night Miss Brill suffers a stroke, and Nell foresees a halt to her promised career. But to Fred the misfortune spells hope for an early marriage, and he waits impatiently to hear the report of Miss Brill's doctor. Nell is mystified by her aunt's mutterings about a "shining heart," but dismisses it as the delirium of a sick woman.
CHAPTER TWO
NELL CAREY, small and slender in her blue print dress, picked her way over the beach boulders to where Fred sat waiting for her. She had sent him there to get him out of the house. Somehow, Miss Brill sensed his presence there, and it made her very nervous.
Nell never questioned her affection for Fred Nagle. As he sat, solidly competent, upon his rock, he visibly embodied all the commoner virtues. Nell knew that. Everybody in Pine Point knew it. Fred had led his high school class. He had gone competently to agricultural college for just the two years required to learn the theories of poultry raising, and with a practicality that amounted to genius had scorned to waste any more time in the halls of learning. The embellishments of classical education were not for Fred. Now he was raising poultry and was already regarded as an authority by the men thereabouts. With his usual forthrightness he had also acquired Nell. How, she was sometimes at a loss to explain, but engaged to Fred she was, nonetheless.
Nell sighed in relief as she took her place on the boulder beside the young man. Say what you would, he was a reassuring person to see on this uncertain day. The good, brown sweater that outlined his stocky self, the short, curly, yellow hair neatly brushed to his round head, the earnest set of his square jaw, his blunt nose and clear, depthless blue eyes all looked steady and safe as the rock on which he sat. Nell felt suddenly secure merely to be near him. If only he did not look so stubborn!
"Well?" Fred asked. His question was for Miss Brilliant, but all his concern was for Nell. There were heavy, violet shadows under her gray eyes, and her face looked whiter than ever against the dark chestnut of her windblown, curling hair.
"I—suppose she's better. You can't tell. She looks at you but doesn't say a word. And we worked—all night." The girl leaned her head wearily on her hand.
"Didn't the doctor say what's wrong?" the young man demanded.
"It's—a stroke," Nell admitted hesitantly. "It seems she's had one before—that time she said it was. A heart attack. It's what has made her leg drag now and then."
"A stroke!" Fred exclaimed. "People are bed-ridden with those. I know, because my grandmother had one. The second one always keeps them in bed."
"Oh, no!" cried Nell. She clenched her hands tightly, fiercely. "Oh, no!" But this time it was a whisper. Ahead of her the shining vision of San Francisco, of the art school, wavered, crashed, like bright glass shattered by the flight of a malignant, dark arrow. When she left the house this thing that had struck so suddenly had seemed temporary, just a slight upset in her plans. Now suddenly she knew that Fred was right. The second stroke always kept them bed-ridden. She shivered.
Fred watched the girl gloomily. He felt almost angry with Miss Brill. If she hadn't insisted on overdoing herself, Nell wouldn't be faced with this catastrophe. Then suddenly he brightened. This illness showed another angle. He rolled the thought about slowly a minute, then grinned.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 187
He had an answer to that art school talk. "Why, Nell," he said, "now's the time we ought to get married. I'd help you take care of Miss Brill."
Tears filled Nell's tired eyes. For a moment she was tempted, sorely tempted, to throw the burden of the thing upon Fred's strong shoulders. But Miss Brill! She had never liked the idea of Nell's marrying him, stalwart as he was. And now—no, she could not worry that confused, sick mind merely to lighten her own cares.
"That's dear of you, Fred, but not now. It would excite her too much. There's Dr. Schmitz coming out now." Nell scrambled up hurriedly and ran up the rough path to the drive, Fred following. She looked mutely at the doctor.
Dr. Schmitz patted the girl's shoulder kindly. "Now, don't worry. Your aunt isn't going to die. Not right away. Of course, she isn't talking, but she's conscious, and she's in no pain at all. Mary Kelly's here to take care of her. And don't let that bother you either. I'll see that Mary gets her money."
Nell choked a little. "We have some money, Doctor,—in the Chinese chest." Money saved, penny by penny, Nell thought bitterly, from their endless berry picking, an infinity of stitching, a wilderness of jam sold to the summer campers.
"Oh," Dr. Schmitz said, "that's what she meant. Your aunt tried to tell me something about a Chinese chest and a shining heart." He climbed into his shabby car. "But don't worry her about it," he warned, "she mustn't be excited about anything."
188 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
NELL nodded mutely and fled along the grass-grown drive, beyond the house, to a log cabin down near the water. Fred followed silently and helped the girl upon the stone platform that made an open porch where she liked to sit when she was troubled and look out over the soothing, never-changing, ever-different waters of the Sound. This cabin was a copy, as true and exact as old Tom Carey could recall it, of his house in Brilliant, Alaska. He had built it as a refuge when the grandeur of the new mansion had pressed too heavily upon his simple soul. There he had collected his bear skins, his rifles, his mining tools, his snow shoes, his elaborate parkas, and the great chests he and Anne Carey had first taken to Alaska with them. Miss Brill had added to these treasures from time to time, until the place was known as the Alaska house, sacred to the memory of youth, of dreams, of vanished fortune. There was a huge rubble fireplace in the main room, a four-poster bunk piled high with the weight of Miss Brill's perfect "hope-chest" patchwork. There was even a little kitchen lean-to, where old Tom had sometimes cooked himself a catch of salmon after a night on the Sound in his punt.
Nell settled on the platform and looked soberly at Fred. He sat down beside her.
"Well?" he said, his familiar opening.
"San Francisco's off, of course. I stay here," she said dully, and looked up in time to catch a satisfied look on Fred's face.
"Fred Nagle, I do believe you're glad," she challenged indignantly.
"Say," Fred protested, "I'd be a fool not to be. I never pretended I wanted you to go down there, did I? Sensible thing for us to do is get married. You can't swing this thing alone. We can start work on the new house up on Maple Hill and stay on here until it's ready," he said practically.
A cold little fear shadowed Nell's mind, an indefinable shrinking. Without stopping to think about things, she knew Fred was right. She couldn't take care of the invalid alone—not when the little nest-egg in the Chinese chest was gone. But instinctively the girl shook her head, nibbling hard on a piece of grass she had plucked.
"Why not? That's the sensible thing to do," Fred exclaimed heatedly, his neck beginning to redden.
She couldn't tell him, not now, why she refused—that Miss Brill would surely die if she left the gray house; that the vision of the art school, dim as it was, was dearer to her than he was.
"It wouldn't be fair," she said huskily, "to dump all our worries on you. Let's wait awhile. I can take care of Aunt Brill all right, don't worry."
But in her heart she was afraid. How on earth she would manage the doctor bills, the medicines, the extra dainties, to say nothing of Mary Kelly's modest pay, was a nightmare. Somehow they'd never planned on Miss Brill's never being able to sew again.
Fred muttered sulkily, "I only wanted to help you out. You know I'd do anything to get you, Nell. I'd even put up with Miss Brill."
He wouldn't have to put up with her long.
"I'm not ungrateful, Fred," Nell murmured, "but this time we'll wait and see. Maybe she won't be in bed so very long. She's always been so strong. And anyway, I have to stay here and take care of the garden and things."
Still mooning over that art school racket, Fred thought, and rightly.
"Promise me one thing, then. If your aunt's not on her feet by summer's end, we'll get married."
Nell agreed listlessly. She was even too tired to feel anything, much less be thrilled, at the prospect of her marriage. Besides, she had known for a long time she would some day marry Fred. It was just that she wanted to study first.
"You can draw interest on your house money that much longer," she said mischievously.
"Well, you don't see me putting good money into a house before I need it," Fred retorted, as he assisted Nell down from her perch. "The garage is good enough for me, and a lot better than most single fellows have."
It really was, Nell knew. Fred was snug and comfortable in his domicile, where neat filing cases, scoured kitchen sink, shower bath, and business desk elbowed each other in orderly flanks. Fred's housekeeping was as efficient as his poultry keeping.
THE young man left her at the kitchen door, and Nell went slowly into the darkened house, her fears upon her like a weight. She didn't want to marry yet—not before she'd had her chance. If the sick woman knew she was driving Nell to the very thing she'd fought to keep her from! But she must not know, not ever.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 189
Mrs. Kelly, the practical nurse Dr. Schmitz had brought with him, tiptoed out of Miss Brilliant's bedroom. "She isn't asleep," she whispered, "but you can keep an eye on her while I run home a minute. I'll be back to get her ready for the night."
Nell slipped into the big bedroom and sat down in the carpet-covered rocker near the bed. Miss Brill was not asleep. Her hands, curiously lax, moved restlessly over the red and white of the patchwork bed cover. Then, without opening her eyes, her lips moved; she tried to speak. Nell jumped up and leaned over the bed, watching closely, her heart beating fast. The struggle went on, but no words came.
"Don't, Aunt Brill. Don't try to talk. There isn't anything at all you need worry about," the girl whispered urgently.
But the old lady's face worked, and finally she managed, "Chinese chest—shining heart."
Then she stopped, exhausted.
"I know about that, Darling," Nell told her soothingly, "and I'll go right up as soon as Mary Kelly gets back and see that everything is there. Don't fret. Nobody'll steal it. Nobody knows about it." She stopped short. Somebody did know about it. She had told Fred and Dr. Schmitz this very day.
Miss Brill frowned impatiently but made no more effort to talk. She isn't satisfied, thought Nell, and looked about until she found a pencil and pad of paper. The invalid tried to hold the pencil in the lax, waxy hand, but the effort came to nothing. She sighed, and was still.
Nell sat down again beside the
190 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
bed, troubled. This "shining heart!" Never before had she heard mention of such a thing. Probably it was nothing but a fevered imagination, but the girl meant to search the Chinese chest to its very bottom, and discover what, if anything, worried the sick woman.
She got up presently and found the package of Mildred Carson's trousseau linen and began to hem. Miss Brill watched her with her sharp, black eyes, and gradually some small bit of peace came into them. She's worried about the money, too, Nell thought, and hemmed the faster. Work she despised with all her heart, this hemming, but she'd do it until she went blind if it would ease the fears of Aunt Brill.
When Mary Kelly returned, Nell put on a sweater and slipped out of the back door. She hurried along the beach path, her chestnut hair flying in the stiff breeze from the Sound. Her heart was heavy, but her mind was made up. Yesterday old Philander Maddox, the rich man from San Francisco, had given her a job. Today he would get it back again. There was no use hoping, with Miss Brill lying inert as a log in her bed. I'll be taking care of her, getting thin and old as she is, all the rest of our lives together, the girl thought. And the sorrow, the panic in her heart, was not for herself, but for Miss Brilliant, who had had such high hopes for her girl.
(To be continued)
SPRING FEVER
By Zara Sabin
Ah, yes, I know the snows are deep Upon the mountain-side, That e'en the hardy violets And crocuses still hide.
I have not heard a blue jay jeer Nor seen a lark... Who cares? I can not wait another day To paint the kitchen chairs!
HAPPENINGS
By Annie Wells Cannon
MARCH—Gladness comes from within and is a gracious gift.
CHARLOTTE, Emily and Anne Bronté are to be honored with a memorial in Westminster Abbey—the highest distinction Great Britain bestows on its gifted sons and daughters. When a book stands the test of years in the choice of the intellectual public, it becomes a classic. This is true of the works of the Bronté sisters, especially of Charlotte's Jane Eyre and of Emily's Wuthering Heights. The latter is listed among the very few best novels by the critic and novelist W. Somerset Maugham in a recent article on books.
ELEANOR PATTERSON, connected with newspapers all her life, and director of the Chicago Tribune Company and New York Daily News Company, has recently purchased the Washington Herald and the Washington Times—a great venture for a woman.
MARGARET BYERS advises women to "Dress in tempo with your temperament" in her book Designing Women. She is considered one of the best authorities on the art, technique, and cost of being beautiful.
SARAH JOSEPHA HALE, besides being the first woman editor in America, is responsible for Thanksgiving Day as a national holiday, the movement to make Mount Vernon a national memorial, the addition of "lingerie" to our vocabulary and the elimination of the word "female" from the facade of Vassar College. Newspapers are fine weapons for accomplishment. The name of the Relief Society was changed from "Female" to "Woman's" Relief Society in 1872, word being sent to the branches through the columns of the Woman's Exponent, edited by Emmeline B. Wells.
BALLADINE BELL COUTTS of Logan, Utah, was one of six winners of Dramatists Guild fellowships—a grant of $1,000 from the Rockefeller Foundation for encouragement of dramatic art.
GRACE CANDLAND JACOBSEN of Provo, Utah has been invited to contribute some of her beautiful poems to the Bozart Westminster, a quarterly magazine of the University Press, Georgia.
NANCY RICH PUGMIRE, 84, of Idaho, Elizabeth Palmer Frost, 94, of Utah, and Mary J. Ransome, 85, of Arizona are among the notable women and Relief Society workers who died this last winter.
MARIA M. JOHNSON of Mount Pleasant, poetess and contributor to western publications, died recently in her southern California home.
MAUD ADAMS, after 20 years, appeared before a limited audience on the Town Hall stage, New York. In recounting incidents of her theatrical career, she said of all her parts Peter Pan was her favorite.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
LOUISE YATES ROBISON President AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor KATE M. BARKER Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD
Jennie B. Knight Amy Whipple Evans Emma A. Empey Rosannah C. Irvine Annie Wells Cannon Nettie D. Bradford Lalene H. Hart Ida P. Beal Cora L. Bennion Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XXVI MARCH, 1939 No. 3
EDITORIAL
That Which Is Ours
THE history of woman is one of ceaseless activity. Her versatility, resourcefulness, inventive ability, charitableness, love of beauty, self-sacrifice, loyalty and love have been important in the advancement of civilization. No one today insists that woman's contribution has been a modest one. The result of women's influence was concisely expressed by a certain gentleman when he said: "So far from women exercising little or no influence over the progress of civilization, they are capable of exercising, and have actually exercised, an enormous influence; this influence is, in fact, so great that it is hardly possible to assign limits to it, and, great as it is, it may with advantage be still further increased.... It has produced powerful results and has affected the shape and character of the society in which we live."
The native instincts of women have directed their various activities into avenues of love—helpfulness and service—and this is the only basis upon which a superior civilization can be built.
The history of the Church is replete with instances of loyalty, sacrifice, courage, and intelligent effort on the part of Latter-day Saint women, and their contribution in advancing the program of the Church is inestimable. In an address given by President Heber J. Grant at Relief Society Conference, he said: "I think that the Relief Society has done and is doing today a very remarkable work in this Church, and their work is appreciated very much by the First Presidency and each and all of the General Authorities."
The Prophet Joseph Smith recognized the natural instincts and native abilities of women and the part they were to play in the work of the Church. Though the attitude of his day was that woman's place was the home, and the home only, he enlarged her sphere and "turned the key" that she might rise, go forward, develop self and improve Church and community life; that she might "manifest benevolence irrespective of creed or nationality; care for the poor, the sick and unfortunate; minister where death reigns; assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; raise human life to its highest level; elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; develop faith; save souls; and study and teach the Gospel".
Through organization comes strength, power, and influence, impossible to attain individually. Opportunities for individual advancement as well as service to others are multiplied manifold. Through the Relief Society organization, the entire Latter-day Saint sisterhood has been elevated. Active participation in Church and community affairs has advanced the women of Relief Society until they hold a position of leadership among the important organized women's groups of the world.
WOMEN the world over have made great advancement in the last one hundred years. Many doors of opportunity have been opened to them, and they have forced many other doors to open. As they have
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 193
realized their strength, they have moved on to greater and greater strength, and their accomplishments stand a monument to them.
However, women must not feel that the position which they hold in the world today, and which has been gained through such earnest effort, is entirely secure. Opportunities that are present now may not be theirs tomorrow. Appreciating the advantages which are theirs, they should safeguard them and constantly strive for further advancement. Then, natively endowed with humane instincts and keen perception, with opportunities to constantly improve, they should play an important part in removing prejudices and evil practices of society, in improving laws and institutions—in making Christianity a reality in the world.
What does the woman's movement of the past mean to us individually? Do we appreciate the power and influence of women in the world? Are we active in preserving what we have and in steadily pushing forward? Do we take advantage of each opportunity for learning and service that presents? Are we alert to conditions about us which may be improved, and to our individual responsibility in their improvement? Do we appreciate and value the organization provided for Latter-day Saint women by a Prophet of God, through which we may work most effectively?
Women today are heirs to many advantages. Let us be worthy daughters of noble mothers.
194 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Dr. Ellis Reynolds Shipp
"To live, kind Father, just While I can execute this trust Of mortal life in usefulness, So long as I can others bless, No longer do I ask.
"When that time comes, take me To realms of immortality; Renew my useful powers then So I can live and work again. For that will Heaven be."
DR. ELLIS REYNOLDS SHIPP received her answer to this prayer, so beautifully expressed in poetic phrase, January 31, 1939, when her spirit was released from earthly bonds to enter into immortality.
Dr. Shipp was one of Utah's most remarkable and noteworthy women; her long life one of unselfish service and devotion to her family, her friends and humanity. She was born in 1847, on the Iowa prairies, when her father, with his family, were migrating with the driven people from Nauvoo. When she was five years old, they resumed the westward journey, and many incidents were recorded on her mind, which in later years she related in her writings. She lived almost a century and noted the changes in a changing world, from the oxen-drawn covered wagon to the airplane, from the tallow candle to the electric light. The deprivations and struggles of pioneer life moulded a character of courage and dependability which helped her meet life's vicissitudes with strength and calmness. Hers was no flower-strewn path; yet, from the beginning to the end, it was an unfaltering course that led to a goal of achievement.
Dr. Shipp was an ardent student, possessed of many natural gifts and charm of person, and found happiness in intellectual pursuits. She was a devoted mother and desired beyond almost anything to afford opportunities for her children. She chose the field of medicine as a way to give service and gain a desired goal. As physician and teacher, hundreds of women revere her memory for kind ministrations and wise instruction. For many years a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, Dr. Shipp made rich contributions from her experience and practical knowledge to that great organization. Among honors bestowed upon her in recognition of her great service was that of being the honored guest at her alma mater in Philadelphia, where she received a gold medal for sixty years' service as a medical practitioner. In 1937, when she was ninety-one, the Salt Lake Federation of Women's Clubs selected her to a place in the Women's Hall of Fame and bestowed upon her a medal for distinguished service. Her book of poems called "Life Lines" portrays in the magic of words her refinement of soul, her love of all things beautiful in nature and humanity, her hope and faith in God—the fountain of all knowledge and intelligence. Her family and loved ones are rich beyond words in a heritage of loving service and sublime faith.—A. W. C.
Notes FROM THE FIELD
By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
Wells Stake
THE Arch of Progress program of Wells Stake Relief Society, launching a campaign for 1,000 members by the end of June, 1939, was held Thursday afternoon, October 23, in the Whittier Ward chapel. The Arch symbolized the steady membership growth of the Organization during the past 96 years. The program was planned to encourage and inspire the women of Wells Stake to carry on the noble work and to enlist every woman within the boundary lines of the stake in the service of this great Society. The program featured the creation of Wells Stake Relief Society in 1932 with Sister Marie Tanner as the first president. General President Louise Y. Robison and Sister Amy W. Towler, present president, were also honored. Appropriate and inspiring addresses were given, and beautiful vocal and instrumental music was rendered. Stake President E. Towler, former General Board Member Sarah M. McLelland, and Bishops William A. Bateman and Fred W. Schwendiman were among a small but stalwart band of men in attendance. The program was conducted by Eva C. Heiner and Lorena W. Anderson of the Relief Society Stake Presidency. Refreshments were served following the program.
The auspicious launching of the drive has been followed by intensive effort on the part of every ward. The quota of 1,000 members has already been reached, and it is expected that this number will be considerably increased by June.
To successfully put over the Membership Drive in the stake an award was offered to the ward that reached its quota first. The same idea was carried out in one of the wards, which proved to be very stimulating and successful: The ward was divided into districts, and prizes given to the district supervisor and to the two workers in the district enrolling the most new members.
196 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
[LEFT, LUCINDA GUSTAFSON. RIGHT, MARY L. RANSOM]
St. Joseph Stake
AMONG the delightful reports of stake activities comes the following account of the St. Joseph Stake: "With the idea of increasing enrollment and stimulating attendance, the St. Joseph Stake Relief Society held a party on August 23. Every married woman in the stake was invited to come and bring her daughters. Each ward was called upon to give one or more numbers on the program. The Stake Board offered four prizes: one for the oldest mother, one for the youngest, one for the mother having the most daughters and one for the grandmother having the most granddaughters present. The Central Ward, which has an enrollment of about 65, carried off the first three prizes; and the Eden Ward, which has
[PAULINE COOMBS, AGE 87]
about half that enrollment, took the fourth prize. The oldest mother was Mrs. Pauline Coombs, who was 87; and Melba Layton, aged 16, was the youngest mother. Mrs. Alice Dodge, president of the Central Ward Relief Society, had seven daughters present, while Mrs. Frances Hancock of the Eden Ward carried off the granddaughter prize, having 17 granddaughters present.
"Other interesting facts were learned at the party. There were present eight mothers who were over 80 years of age, four mothers who had been in the Relief Society for sixty years, and ten mothers who had worked in the Relief Society for forty years. Sister Mary Ransom, a member of the original St. Joseph Stake Relief Society Board, was present and also her sister, Mrs. Lucinda Gustafson, who was a member of the second organization of the St. Joseph Stake Relief Society.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 197
"The party was held in the afternoon on the Thatcher Ward lawn, and each guest was served with ice cream and cookies. It was estimated there were about one thousand in attendance. It was a most satisfying sight to watch old friends shake hands who had not met for years. The stake officers felt the entertainment was most worth while and hope to make it an annual affair."
San Bernardino Stake
THE following interesting report from the San Bernardino Stake is suggestive of the results that may follow Relief Society General Conferences: "While enjoying the very delightful Relief Society General Conference, we conceived the idea of coming back to our stake and holding, as nearly as possible, a similar convention. We were very careful in our note taking and in listing the songs and poems used. As soon as possible
[WORK AND BUSINESS ACTIVITY, SAN BERNARDINO WARD]
after returning, we held our convention, calling it a Conference Report Convention. All of our wards were represented by large numbers. Each board member reported the department assigned to her. The spirit of the Lord was with us, a kindly feeling prevailed, and ward workers have reported that they felt almost as if they had attended General Conference themselves.
"Sunday, November 20, singing groups were organized in each ward. We were thrilled with a group of sixty Singing Mothers from our
198 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
stake, who furnished four numbers for the stake Priesthood conference. The group was also asked to sing two numbers at the Municipal Auditorium for the Covered Wagon Days' program, conducted under the auspices of the Community Church Service, at which President Grant and Elder Richard R. Lyman were guest speakers. We are most happy for the opportunity that was ours.
"The Work and Business meetings this year are being enjoyed very much. The above picture was taken at the San Bernardino Ward on Work and Business day.
"Our stake leader suggested that each ward have a contest, displaying a centerpiece for a Thanksgiving table. The displays were attractive, and members received many excellent ideas for beautiful Thanksgiving tables. Some of the wards also exchanged Thanksgiving recipes.
"Most of our wards have an all-day Work meeting, where much sewing is accomplished."
Carbon Stake
THE following is a report of the Carbon Stake Relief Society Membership Drive, launched November 1 and closed December 10: "Our first point of contact was a talk given in the Sacrament meetings, where we tried to convert every one to the mission of our Organization and create a receptive attitude. We took an entire program, including an orchestra, to some of the wards. After we felt we had accomplished our purpose, we asked that the most enthusiastic members be appointed to meet with us at our first Union meeting.
"We decided to use a Membership Arch, divided into four distinctive units, and at the end of the four years to use the completed Arch as a grand finale of the drive. The first year's activity was to be symbolized by a baby whom the General Board had left in our care for normal development. We wanted the baby to grow during the year until it compared favorably with the excellent program offered by the Organization. We demonstrated this with a skit. In each ward increased membership was to be symbolized with the idea of developing a baby. This idea made so great an appeal to the mothers that it was decided that every member could contribute to the growth of the baby by being responsible for enrolling a new member. Of course, each new member must understand the three requisites for membership and be acquainted with all phases of the work.
"For the Union meeting a special preliminary program was planned, each of the seventeen wards of the stake being represented by a girl. With marching and song, they dropped a bag containing their per cents into the stake bag. This was a competitive program and had the desired effect.
"The wards held receptions, giving a prize to the individual bringing in the most new members. These were followed by a stake reception at which time a hymn book was given to each of the six wards having the highest percentage of membership increase.
"At the stake reception we found that our Membership Baby had attained four years' growth in one year and that every ward in the stake had reached its quota, some going over. We returned this baby to Sister Cora L. Bennion of the General Board, who was our conference visitor, with a copy of the quotas up to that time.
"The Stake Presidency met with us and were pleased with our efforts.
"The drive was a very satisfying piece of work to every one concerned. It created such a spirit of good comradeship and fun that we still hear the echoes, and the ranks are still swelling. We feel that it has done much to help the wards in the Carbon Stake."
Kolob Stake
WE are indebted to Sister Retta R. Harmer, Secretary, for the following fine report of a garden project in Kolob Stake. We print it as a fine suggestion to other stakes: "Planned for the purpose of stimulating interest in raising better and larger gardens for family use both in winter and summer months, Kolob Stake Relief Society sponsored an outstanding garden contest the past season.
"Under the direction of President Hannah Clyde, who initiated plans for the contest, Mrs. Prudence Palfreyman, also of the stake presidency and W. H. Anderson of the high school agriculture department, visits were made during the summer to the gardens entered, and accurate ac-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 199
counts of produce from these were kept.
"At the close of the season, directors of the contest as well as entrants were enthusiastic over the results of the garden project and expressed a desire to make it a larger and better enterprise the coming year. Four prizes were awarded. Still more and better vegetable and flower gardens in this vicinity next year is the aim of the Relief Society, and plans are now being formulated to conduct another contest the coming season.
"Beginning early in the spring, a series of meetings to instruct contest entrants on various phases of gardening will be held from time to time, and garden tours will be conducted during the summer. Regular forms on which entrants may keep an itemized account of their garden production will be distributed, and several fine prizes are to be given at the close of the season for the best garden projects.
"Judging will be based on production, appearance, care and other items. It is also planned to have gardens grouped according to size and type to further facilitate fair judging. Mrs. Clyde, Mrs. Palfreyman and Mr. Anderson will again have the enterprise in charge."
AWAKENING
By Celia A. Van Cott
I heard voices in the garden As I strolled up and down, Pleading to loose their fettered bonds For Spring had come to town.
The Crocus pushed her golden head Above the crusted sod; I pressed my finger to her heart And felt the pulse of God.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Attention Choristers
A LETTER containing the following instructions regarding the musical program to be provided by the augmented group of Singing Mothers at the Relief Society April Conference has been sent to all stakes and missions. These instructions are of importance to all groups of Singing Mothers:
I. Special Invitation
The General Authorities have invited Relief Society Singing Mothers to furnish music for both sessions of the General Conference, on Thursday, April 6. Due to the significance of this day, we deem it a real privilege to be so honored and have accepted the invitation. We should like to have as many stakes as possible represented.
II. Registration
The office is anxious to have definite information as to how many stakes and missions will participate at this particular Conference. If you have not already done so, will you please notify the office as to the number your stake is sending. It is imperative that we have this information. Owing to the number of stakes participating, we are compelled to limit each stake to twelve members.
III. Songs
The following songs will be used: "Sanctus"—Gounod "Benedictus"—Gounod "O Bread of Life"—Franck "O Morn of Beauty"—Sibelius "The Lord's Prayer"—Gates "For the Strength of the Hills" "Abide With Me" "He Died! The Great Redeemer Died"
IV. Requirements
Again may we remind our Singing Mothers that all songs (both music and words) are to be memorized. The last three hymns are to be learned as follows:
"For the Strength of the Hills"—all verses, soprano and alto parts as found in the L. D. S. Hymn Book.
"Abide With Me"—all verses, soprano part only.
"He Died! The Great Redeemer Died"—all verses, soprano and alto.
The Central Group will sing additional parts to make the harmony complete.
Regulation uniform dress will be used—black or very dark skirt, with white satin blouse. Full description of blouse, material, buttons, ribbon, etc., may be found in the November, 1937, issue of The Relief Society Magazine.
As heretofore we are expecting each stake to send a balanced group.
V. Four Days Involved
The first song practice will be held in the Tabernacle at 9 a. m., Monday, April 3, under the direction of Professor Wade N. Stephens. It is important that Singing Mothers be present at this time.
April 3 and 4 will be devoted to placing of groups, rehearsals, etc. April 5—Relief Society Conference. April 6—General Conference.
VI. Reservations
May we suggest that if some
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 201
of our women contemplate stopping at hotels, it might be well to write directly to the hotels for reservations and rates, as soon as possible.
ATTENTION is called to the fact that a department will be held for Choristers and Organists as a part of the regular April Conference program. For the discussion period, will choristers and organists kindly bring written copies of any questions they may wish to have considered. This will conserve time and make it more profitable and interesting for all.
Hints for Studying Conference Music
By Wade N. Stephens
"O MORN OF BEAUTY"
THIS piece should be taught in strict tempo, being sure that the last long note in each phrase is well sustained throughout its full value. Where the second soprano part is divided, the two notes should be sung by an equal number of voices if possible. Where this cannot be done, put more voices on the lower part. In dividing the first alto, if you have an uneven number of voices, put more on the lower part also.
"O BREAD OF LIFE"
IN the first verse of this piece, a change in words is to be made. Beginning in the last measure of the top line on page four, the two lower parts sing "the living bread, Holy". Please change this to read "the holy, living bread". Otherwise the first verse is to be taught as written, with careful regard for the rests. In the second verse, do not teach the solo part. Use only the three chorus parts. On page six, the last two measures, where the words are "Giv'n with Thy tender love," teach the first soprano the following notes instead of those written:
[Musical notation indicated]
Giv'n with Thy ten - der love,
The tempo should be rather slow, and regular throughout except for the last line, which is sung more slowly. Be sure all the rests are observed.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 9
PETER, THE HEAD OF THE CHURCH
HELPFUL REFERENCES
James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 692-694, 702-709, 2109, 680 Charles R. Brown, These Twelve, pp. 14-22. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, consult index under heading of Peter. C. E. Macartney, "Of Them He Chose Twelve," pp. 112-121. F. J. Mueller, Christ's Twelve, pp. 25-29.
THE Risen Lord Probes Peter's Heart.—The third manifestation of the risen Lord to his apostles was on the shores of the Sea of Galilee. (John 21:1, 14) Our Lord helped Peter and his associates to another miraculous draught of fishes. After dining on fish and bread that the Savior had prepared, Peter was subjected to a painful questioning by the Master. It was especially trying to Peter because he was by no means over the terrible remorse incident to his thrice denial of the Christ. "Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these?" By "these" Jesus meant not fishes, as some have suggested, but Peter's fellow apostles. One can imagine how difficult it must have been for Peter to reply, "Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee." (John 21:15) Then came Christ's charge: "Feed my lambs." Peter is no longer referred to as a fisherman, but as a shepherd. The Savior asks Peter substantially the same question twice more. After Peter's agonized declarations of love for him, He added respectively the injunctions: "Tend my sheep" and "feed my sheep." We may justly infer from the Gospel narrative that the Christ gave Peter the formal call to be his earthly representative on the occasion referred to. In addition our Lord predicted to Peter—very tenderly we believe—the manner of his death. "Verily, verily, I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou girdedst thyself, and walkedst whither thou wouldst: but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldst not." (John 21:18) The Gospel then adds: "This spake he, signifying by what death he would glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he saith unto him, Follow me." This meeting of Christ and his apostles must have been a most solemn occasion. Peter knew that his Master had forgiven him and expected him to carry on as a true leader. In the end his love for the Christ would be manifested by martyrdom.
PETER Speaks on the Day of Pentecost.—In another lesson we dealt somewhat with the effects of the Holy Spirit on the apostles following the day of Pentecost. At this point we shall deal a little more in detail with the part Peter played in the drama of that eventful day. According to the Acts, when the Holy Spirit descended upon the disciples on the day of Pentecost, they began to speak in tongues. The resulting commotion was so great that Jews from all parts of the Mediterranean world (Acts 2:5-11), then staying in Jerusalem, came running to the spot. These were all amazed to hear their own language spoken by Galileans. "And they were all amazed, and were in doubt, saying one to another, What meaneth this? Others mocking said, These men are full of new wine." (Acts 2:12, 13) Peter then arose to speak. He pointed out that those who were speaking in tongues were not drunk, for it was but 9:00 a. m. (Jews were not accustomed to drink so early in the day.) This unusual phenomenon, he said, was nothing more or less than a fulfillment of a prophecy made by Joel (2:28-32) many hundreds of years before. Joel had made reference to the fact that in the last days God would pour out his spirit upon all flesh and show marvels in the sky above and the earth beneath. Peter seized upon this passage as the quickest and most satisfactory way of explaining to the crowd an unusual spiritual phenomenon. As a matter of fact, his interpretation of the passage was not correct, for when the angel Moroni appeared to Joseph Smith, he quoted the very same passage from Joel and said that it was not yet fulfilled but soon would be. (See "Writings of Joseph Smith," 2:41 in Pearl of Great Price) How-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 203
ever, the scripture served Peter's purpose, and he went on from that point to interpret to the assemblage the meaning of the life and work of Jesus the Messiah. The multitude showed intense interest in Peter's remarks and asked guidance of him and his colleagues of the Twelve. The people were instructed to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, and there were three thousand souls added to the Church that day. (See Acts 2:14-41) It must have been a day of great rejoicing. The young Church of Christ had found itself. So had Peter. He was a new man. Gone was his fear, his timidity, lack of spiritual insight, and desire for political preferment.
All Things In Common.—Wise men through the centuries have attempted to solve the economic inequalities of society. So long as some people have much more of this world's goods than they need and others have less than they need, or even live in abject poverty and want, so long must the Church of Christ labor to solve the problem. Men are born unequal in respect to mentality and physical capacity. In a world shot through with pagan concepts and practices they are therefore found to be unequal in ability to acquire worldly substance. But the economic necessities of most men are roughly the same. When a man has less than a certain minimum of worldly goods, we know from experience that such a situation is liable to have far-reaching consequences in terms of crime, sickness, neglect, and other factors of direct concern to religion. The ancient Church was aware of this. It would appear to us that Peter was the lead-
204 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
er in instituting a new and limited economic order. The Acts gives us a very short account of what was done. Living as we do in a day when every conceivable economic panacea is being invoked, we should like to know the details of the ancient order. What we have is the following: "And all that believed were together, and had all things common; and sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men, as every man had need: And they, continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart, Praising God, and having favour with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved." (Acts 2:44-47) How long did this order last? Was it successful? Did it spread into the various branches of the Church as Christian missionaries carried the Gospel to the known world? Was Peter given a special revelation by the Lord to institute it, or had the latter taught the substance of the order to the apostles during his three years' ministry? These are interesting questions, but their answers are yet to come. However, the administration of the order must have taxed the ability and ingenuity of Peter and his colleagues to the limit. The experience of the Church in this dispensation has given us some idea of the difficulties involved in the United Order.
PETER Opens the Door to the Gentiles.—One of the most important events in Peter's administration was that which made it possible for the Gospel to be carried to the Gentiles. Peter was the guest of Simon, a tanner, who lived at Joppa in a house near the sea. Hotels and inns were disreputable places, and he naturally sought hospitality in a private home. That Peter stayed at a tanner's house is an interesting fact in itself and shows how the spirit of love and democracy was brought about in the ancient Church. The Jews regarded the work of a tanner as absolutely unclean. "It is impossible," said a rabbi, "for the world to do without tanners; but woe to him who is a tanner." The Gospel caused Peter to judge men upon a much more substantial basis than their trade. It was while at Simon's home that he had the vision of the unclean animals. (See Acts 10:9-16) Peter was much perplexed over the vision and wondered what it might mean. The answer soon came when the Spirit sent him to accompany three men who had been sent by Cornelius, a centurion from Caesarea. When Peter arrived with his friends, he found Cornelius and others waiting for him. Cornelius related the story of how an angel had appeared and had instructed him to send for the apostle at Joppa. Peter then preached to those present. "Then Peter opened his mouth, and said, Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons: but in every nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him." (Acts 10:34) The Holy Spirit fell on all who were present and there was another harvest of souls, for many were baptized at Peter's direction. (Acts 10:47, 48) The admission of Gentiles into the Church created a sensation among the Jewish Christians and some dissension. (Acts 11:1-18) This was but natural, for under the Law of Moses Jews were a "separate" people and had special laws defining their duties towards Gentiles. The Christians now began to see clearly that the Gospel of Christ had a universal character and could be preached to non-Jewish peoples.
PETER and Paul.—It is natural to speak of Peter and Paul together, for Peter opened the door for preaching the Gospel to the Gentiles and Paul became the fiery apostle to and champion of them. After Paul's conversion (Acts 9) he became the most brilliant expounder of Christianity. The contacts of Paul with Peter are few but interesting. Paul mentions the circumstances under which he first met Peter in his letter to the Galatians. "Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and abode with him fifteen days." (Gal. 1:18) This meeting must have been an unusually interesting one,—Peter, the apostle and man of business, and Paul, scholar and orator. After fourteen years Paul went up to Jerusalem again. (Gal. 2:1) Apparently there was a dispute in the Church over keeping certain provisions of the Law of Moses. (See Gal. 2:1-10; Acts 15:1-29) Paul championed the cause of the Gentiles and was upheld by Peter. On another occasion, however, Peter displayed a weakness (characteristic enough) which Paul immediately noticed. "But when Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood him to the face, because he was to be blamed. For before that certain came from James, he did eat with the Gen-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 205
tiles; but when they were come, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing them which were of the circumcision.... I said unto Peter before them all, If thou, being a Jew, livest after the manner of Gentiles, and not as do the Jews, why compellest thou the Gentiles to live as do the Jews." (Gal. 2:11-14) Evidently the lines of cleavage in the Church over the Law of Moses were so pronounced that Peter didn't have the courage to act according to what he knew was right. But the bold Paul didn't hesitate to tell Peter that he was in the wrong. Some think that Paul was a greater man than Peter and point to the above incident as one of the proofs. At this late date we do not know all of Peter's burdens. He was meeting tremendous problems, and the administration of the Church was a serious matter. Only a very great man could have shouldered the responsibility he did.
PETER'S Martyrdom.—Space prevents our treating other great events in Peter's life as we should like to do. According to tradition he met a martyr's death. The First Epistle of Clement of Rome says, "Let us set before our eyes the Good apostle Peter, who, through unrighteous envy, endured not one or two, but numerous labors, and having suffered martyrdom departed to the place of glory due him." Tertullian (about 200 A. D.) was the first writer to speak of Peter's death by crucifixion in Nero's reign. Origen says that "at last, having arrived in Rome, he was crucified head downwards, having himself requested that he might so suffer." Peter evidently
206 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
met death in his old age as the Christ had predicted. (John 21:18)
Questions and Problems (Deal only with as many as time permits.)
1. On the day of Pentecost great numbers of people were brought into the Church. What apostle in this dispensation brought great numbers into the Church in a short time?
2. Why do you suppose the Savior allowed Peter, Paul, and others to preach to the Gentiles, but did not do so himself?
3. Read I Cor. 9:5 and comment on the probable difficulties and trials of Peter, his colleagues, and their families.
4. Have some one in the class prepare a summary of the teachings in the two Epistles of Peter. (We assume here that Peter wrote both of them. Some scholars deny that he wrote either.)
5. Read Gal. 2:11-14 and II Peter 3:15-17 and comment on the traits of Peter's character shown therein.
6. What work did Peter do in this dispensation? (See D. & C. 27:12; 128:20)
Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No. 9
Healthy Mental Attitudes as Taught by Jesus
PAUL, an apostle of Jesus Christ, says, "For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind." (II Tim. 1:7) "The health of mind of an individual will depend upon the emotional attitudes developed. Some are fundamentally unhealthy; some are decidedly wholesome." (Ligon) Jesus' teachings clearly indicate those attitudes which are mentally healthy and which are the basis for building strong personalities that will stand against strong trials.
The attitude of faith in a fatherly God is suggested by "Our Father" from the Lord's Prayer. This relationship creates a feeling that we are loved; a sense that all is well, which minimizes the harassing effects of fear on the mind. This encourages faith in oneself, reducing fear of personal failure. Jesus did not say MY Father. All are His children, all brothers and sisters. Faith in the worthiness of humanity is an impetus to serve the common good. Social interest, a healthy attitude, is expressed in "Love thy neighbor as thyself." Alertness to the needs of others leaves no room for mental disorders through self-pity or excessive introspection. Giving through genuine love strikes at selfishness and at the danger of mental unbalance caused by the greed of getting. "Love thine enemies," Jesus taught. We cannot love our enemies and at the same time be sick with hate, anger, envy and suspicion. If we forgive freely, if we judge not, we are not apt to be victims of a consuming bitterness of mind, or acid retaliation. If our motives for high personal achievement are guided by a desire
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 207
to better serve our fellows, we shall have healthier mental attitudes. Jesus said, "Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man which builds his house on a rock."
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs planned by the ward.
Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
Lesson 9
The Late Nineteenth Century to Date
THE novel, on account of its length and very structure, is admirably adapted to a world which is rapidly becoming adult. In it, the author, if he really has anything to say, has space in which to say it and an audience to which to speak. The novel is the inside history of events and people. It is history built from the inside out, and therefore, is of great importance to any age.
"Stevenson was thirty years old when George Eliot died," said Professor Phelps. That young man stood ready to build a new literary tradition. The realism of his predecessors was to give way to a new and gorgeous romanticism, though a restrained one, that places the novels of Stevenson in the front ranks of books of their kind in all the world. Stevenson, a painstaking worker, produced his great romantic novels, one after the other, setting a new pattern for lesser people to follow. His Treasure Island, Kidnapped, St. Ives, and other stories, became the fashion of his generation. They are still held to be classics of the language.
This new type of romantic fiction is suggested by Phelps in the following quotation: "Of all modern authors, Stevenson is the best for youth. Our boys and girls follow the arch-magician from wonder to wonder, and they learn the delight of reading, and they absorb the beauty of style, as one learns good manners by associating with well-bred exemplars. For Henry James describing a lady serving tea on an English lawn is not more careful with his language than Stevenson describing one-legged Silver in the act of murder. Stevenson was purely literary; he was not a great dramatist nor a great poet, though he wrote verses and plays; but it is
208 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
abundantly clear that he was a great novelist, essayist, and maker of epistles. In these three departments he stands in the first rank."
Stevenson, always sickly, died at an early age in 1894. Almost immediately thereafter a sweeping romantic revival got under way that flooded the markets of the world with romantic tales. Many of these made excellent reading for pastime only. Among these which all of us can easily remember were fast-moving stories like The Prisoner of Zenda, which has recently had a notable revival on the screen, When Knighthood Was in Flower, and the Graustark stories which had such a vogue nearly a quarter of a century ago. During that revival, too, the detective story had a revival in the Sherlock Holmes series and the Raffles tales by Doyle and Hornung, respectively. These stories, though light and passing in nature, made interesting reading; and many of us will remember hours of pleasure contributed by stories such as have been mentioned, as well as by many similar ones written about the same time in America.
Romanticism and realism, however, are usually to be found at the same time among men, although during different periods one or the other will have the ascendency according to the greatness of the writers. At the same time, therefore, that these stories mentioned here were being written, a greater school of writers was busy upon what Professor Phelps is pleased to call "life" novels, a sort of reformed realism. Notable among these writers of the so-called "life" novels are William DeMorgan, Arnold Bennett, H. G. Wells, and others in England. All of these men wrote creditable novels which are already, in some cases, safely nominated for a position among the classics.
Arnold Bennett made an unusual stir with his Old Wives' Tale; and H. G. Wells did much writing, especially in the field of the so-called experimental novel. Probably the man who looms greatest among the English novelists of recent times is Thomas Hardy, although Professor Phelps gives to Hardy's contemporary, George Meredith, a place close beside him. Phelps, a Victorian at heart, likes the "buoyant philosophy" of Meredith better than the pagan philosophy of Hardy. He admits, however, that Meredith's style is often "perfectly opaque" and acts as "a hedge between him and his reader". So true is that statement that comparatively few, other than the scholars, spend much time with Meredith. "Meredith," says Phelps, "himself was a thousand times more interesting than any of his works." Many readers will agree. On the other hand, Hardy's novels are most interesting even though his philosophy is stern and unyielding. To him, man is in the unseeing, unfeeling hands of an inexorable fate. As Phelps puts it: "In Hardy's eyes, we are mere bits of the vast machine; we have no more influence than the spoke of a fly-wheel; we do not have to wait until we are dead before we are rolled round with rocks, and stones, and trees."
For the benefit of those who may not have an opportunity to read Phelps, the following bit is included: "Thomas Hardy's superiority as a novelist over George Meredith consists mainly in three things: the perfection of constructive power (no novelist was ever a better architect), the beautiful stately march of his style (First chapter of Return of the Native, or Gabriel Oak telling time by the stars), and the universal character of his dramatis personae." "... Of all living English novelists (Hardy is now dead)," says Phelps, "none can possibly be considered his rival. We may indeed truthfully omit the word English; there is no writer in the world today whose prose fiction is of equal value."
Three of Hardy's novels have won almost universal acclaim—Return of the Native, Far From the Madding Crowd, and Tess of the D'Urbervilles. Phelps likes the first best, the writer likes Tess best. It is a wonderfully constructed piece of artistic writing.
The twentieth century has seen the rise of many writers among whom are to be found several women novelists who may one day take their places among the revered writers of their sex. In order to avoid confusing the reader, it may be wise to close this particular discussion of the novel with Thomas Hardy. He lived to a good, ripe age, gave us many poems, essays, and novels and has gone to his reward. It is safe to say that he will always rank as one of England's very greatest novelists. Some critics are already willing to assign to him first place. Whether he is eventually to occupy that position only the passing years can determine.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 209
A GLANCE at Chapter 9 in The Advance of the English Novel will reveal the names of many novelists of England not mentioned in this brief discussion. Many of them, as well as many whom Professor Phelps has not named at all, would be worthy of notice if there were room.
Suggestions
1. Read chapters 5, 6, 7, 8 of The Advance of the English Novel.
2. Read passages from Stevenson's Treasure Island as examples of his style.
3. Read from chapter 1 of The Return of the Native by Thomas Hardy to get an idea of his style.
4. Brief book reviews of novels by Wells, Bennett, DeMorgan, Galsworthy, etc., would be appropriate.
5. Review the definitions of a novel found in Lesson 1 of this course.
6. Wilber L. Cross gives a list of twenty-five prose fictions in his book The Development of the English Novel, Macmillan. They are Le Morte d'Arthur by Malory; Rosalind by Thomas Lodge; Pilgrim's Progress by Bunyan; Robinson Crusoe by Defoe; Roderick Random by Smollett; Clarissa Harlow by Richardson; Tom Jones by Fielding; Tristram Shandy by Sterne; The Vicar of Wakefield by Goldsmith; Castle Rackrent by Edgeworth; Pride and Prejudice by Austen; Waverly by Scott; Kenilworth by Scott; The Pathfinder by Cooper (American); The Scarlet Letter by Hawthorne (American); Pelham by Bulwer-Lytton; David Copperfield by Dickens; Vanity Fair by Thackeray; Barchester Towers by Trollope; Jane Eyre by Brontë; Adam Bede by Eliot; the
210 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Ordeal of Richard Feverel by Meredith; Return of the Native by Hardy; Treasure Island by Stevenson; The Brushwood Boy by Kipling. Another critic might have changed some of these novels, but certainly all critics would have agreed on the majority of them as showing the development of the English novel.
Education for Family Life
FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS
Lesson 6
Relationship of Children in the Home
By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.)
AT successive periods the child has three different relationships to the home. First, he must become adjusted to the home his parents have created. Then, he must break away from that home. Finally, he must go out and establish a home of his own. Obviously, this demands a high degree of flexibility and adjustability on the part of the young, favored by a high degree of sympathy, understanding, and good management on the part of their seniors.
I. THE child must become adjusted to his own home. This phase of the life process has received attention in the first four lessons of this series. In the light of what lies ahead of him, it is obvious that the child can not afford to become too well adjusted to his home; he must never be too dependent. His natural tendency, almost from birth, is toward eventual emancipation. It becomes strikingly manifest from the age of four or five when he goes into the "negativistic stage" that often worries his mother,—the stage of responding to every request with "I won't". He is trying to assert himself as an individual, and (within limits!) he ought to. For this reason, parents must ever be alert not to let security take the place of growth, but to keep the two well balanced.
II. THE child must then, break away from his own home. Sometimes this phase of adolescence creates serious disturbances in the family. It may end in juvenile delinquency, runaway marriages, and other behavior problems. Normally, however, it should be such a gradual process that there is no abrupt break or shock. Older studies described adolescence as a time of great stress and mental turmoil, during which the boy or girl went through various crises. While this sometimes hap-
pens, all recent studies indicate that this is not the normal picture. The adolescent tends to move along a fairly smooth path, unless his parents make it too rough for him. The striking tendency toward religious doubt or religious fervor, toward dramatic "conversions" in particular, seems not to be experienced unless as a result of outside pressure. If sound patterns of religious life have been built up in the years before adolescence, youth is likely to go through the succeeding years with a minimum of doubt and agitation. I do not mean to say that the adolescent has no conflicts, for we all have. I merely mean that they are not as sensational as sometimes supposed. He has many inevitable conflicts, as for instance, between his own desire for self-assertion and independence, on the one hand, and a carry-over of habits of submission, obedience, conformity to family ways, on the other. He also has a consciousness of childishness, and a strong desire to throw this off.
In a general way, the adolescent's life is marked by three new trends:
1. Expansion of his social world. He begins to read something more than the "funnies" in the newspapers. He begins to take an interest in politics, in labor questions, in matters of church organization and policy, in literature, art, and music, to a greater degree than ever before. He begins to get acquainted with more people, to observe more and think more. This wider view makes him more "family conscious," more sensitive to the difference between his own family and others. If he can be
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 211
proud of this difference, he will be greatly helped. On the other hand, if he comes to understand that the ideals, the standards, the practices of his family are not a credit to him, he can not help being resentful, disillusioned, and sometimes vindictive. Parents will help in this important period of growth by furnishing social opportunities, promoting free discussion of controversial subjects in the home, and by having the boy or girl participate in as many constructive phases of the world's work as possible. It is important not to leave youth standing around the edge, a mere onlooker. It must assume responsibilities for its appropriate share of the work of the world, especially at this period when it is beginning to show a real concern over such things.
As part of this general expansion of the horizon, young people need to feel that they are accepted by the group outside their home. In other words, they must make friends and have a wide range of acquaintances, associated with the feeling that they are "acceptable," well-thought-of by those whose opinion they value. Studies show that such popularity belongs to those who are courteous, helpful, co-operative, considerate of others, honest, unselfish, and self-controlled; who show qualities of leadership; and who do not bluff, bully, "show off," quarrel, carry grudges, think they are "picked on," try to evade responsibility or "alibi" themselves, domineer over others, or show too great dependence on others. These qualities (which are equivalent to emotional maturity) can not
212 - MARCH, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
be picked up overnight; they are the products of parental training from birth onward, which at this period will begin to produce "social dividends" for their possessors.
2. Increasing interest in the other sex. This again has been discussed in Lesson Four. Parents must be patient and sympathetic with the manifestations of youthful infatuation, must promote an adequate social life under wholesome auspices, as through church organizations, and must particularly avoid anything like ridicule. If undesirable associations are formed, opposition and antagonism may only make the young people more determined. Provision of plenty of more desirable and interesting associations will usually enable the good to drive out the bad.
3. Emancipation from parents. Many parents find this process of "psychological weaning" much harder on them than on the children. Some are excessively lenient,—usually a reaction from their own childhood, in which they now feel that they were held down too strictly. But the main danger is of the parents' refusal to give up control, which may be due to such causes as the following:
(a) The parents are reaching an age at which any kind of change causes mental discomfort,—a characteristic of the aged.
(b) They don't trust the results of their own rearing of their children; are afraid the young people are not prepared to stand alone but will fall as soon as support is withdrawn. In such a case, the parents should have begun the withdrawal process much earlier, since it must always be gradual. It's too late now,—they'll have to let the young people go steadily out toward self-dependence.
(c) Parents love a feeling of power, and dominance over their own offspring is one way to gratify it.
(d) Parents are disappointed in their own lives and want to live them over again, vicariously and more satisfactorily, in their children. Thus a father may insist that his son (who wants to be an irrigation engineer) become a lawyer, merely because the father himself always aspired to be a lawyer, but was a farmer instead.
(e) Parents are lonesome. They have not built up enough interests outside the home, and feel panicky at the thought of losing their main interest in life, their children. This is a common cause of interference by a mother-in-law: she simply hasn't anything on her mind, so takes too much interest in the affairs of the young people.
(f) Occasionally parents don't want their children to grow up, because this will make the parents themselves feel that they are old. They are clinging in an infantile way to a semblance of youth, because they are so immature emotionally.
(g) Sometimes parents keep a child dependent because the child is financially valuable,—a girl helping her mother in the home, a boy assisting his father in business or farming. If the child were allowed to go out and live his own life, the parent would have to hire an assistant; and "business is business".
In short, failure of psychological weaning or emancipation of the young is the fault of the parent, not the child. Its effects are so farreaching and disastrous that every parent should begin, almost from the birth of a child, to prepare it for future departure from the parental home and parental dominance. III. THE child must establish a new home on his own account. Success in this undertaking, again, is dependent on everything that has gone before. It can not be learned as some trick that might be taught a few months before marriage. If home, school, and church have not built up the right attitudes over a period of many years, the young will be left to get their education from the movies, the radio crooners, and the newspaper headlines describing divorce scandals. Inevitably, the young people will then carry into marriage attitudes of pessimism, of cynicism, of defeatism, which will make success difficult. If, on the other hand, the home, the school, and the church have built up in the young an attitude of determined idealism, a feeling that the founding of a new home is the most important job they will ever undertake, that they will exhaust all the resources of religion and science to make it a success, that they will let nothing but a catastrophe interfere with success,— then they will make a success of the new home, as they would make a success of anything they approached in the same spirit. Questions. And Problems 1. A mother says, "Of course, my RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 213 married daughter must live her own life; but after all, I have seen a good deal more of the world than she has, and if I find that she is living her life wrongly, it's my duty as a parent to prevent her from making irreparable mistakes." Do you agree? Why? 2. A study of adolescent girls showed that 40% of them began to "pet" merely through curiosity. How would you deal with this? 3. A recent writer remarks, '"Fathers and mothers will agree on discipline and child care only when they love and respect each other. When husband and wife are emotionally entangled and maritally unadjusted, father has absolutely no place in the rearing of his children" and should let the whole matter be handled by the mother. Do you agree? Why? 4. Dr. Edward Sapir, a distinguished American anthropologist, answered the question, "What is the family still good for?" by saying that it has four irreplaceable functions: (1) to give the sex relation its greatest emotional value; (2) to rear children in an atmosphere of intelligent affection; (3) to socialize the individual; and (4) to prepare the child unconsciously for satisfactory mating in the future. What would you add to this statement of the case? (5) Your high school boy has a chance to get a job with a small salary this summer. Someone says that since you are perfectly able to support him, you should not let him take the job, but should leave it for some boy whose family desperately needs the money. What would you reply? Our Homeland Beautiful Our homeland, wherever it is, holds beauty for those of us who love it. PERHAPS your home is one of those along the trails that many thousands travel to get a glimpse of God's natural beauty. We are proud of what Nature has done for us. Can we be just as proud of what we have done for ourselves in furthering the beauty scheme and making our homeland more lovable and livable? Along our roads the tourist spends most of his time while traveling to the unusual spots of beauty. Along these same roads he collects an initial and continuous impression of the inhabitants of the community. He sees our homes, our barns, our fences and our surroundings reflecting our standards of living. His impression is a lasting one, collected as he speeds over our splendid highways. It is quite apparent that some parts of the West have made some real strides in the right direction during the last few years, particularly since the Church has fostered its Beautification Program. However, there is still a great deal to do. Certainly the least we can do is to initiate a personal drive to thoroughly clean up our own yards, to repair and paint fences and buildings, and to plant every available bit of ground with flowers, trees, lawn or other vegetation which will give beauty to our surroundings. YOU GET EXACTLY THE COLOR YOU WARNT WHEN YOU USE Bennett’s Paints Property Life Insurance Bennett's Colorizer Selection offers 66 lovely NEW shades and tints, plus all the popular deep colors. Ask for FREE large color chips. BENNETT GLASS & PAINT Co. Salt Lake City —and Bennett Dealers throughout the Intermountain Country dependable. Place them. GET FREE GARDEN BOOK Seed and Nursery Specialists Centerville and Salt Lake City, Utah PW's Shrubs Piants, Trees They're hardy, acclimated, vigorous and et us give you suggestions on how to PORTER-WALTON CO. Va Grounds. Beauty When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine DOMESTIC Patronize your own state sugar companies, because this sugar is grown on western farms and ls unexcelled for Cooking, canning, table use—and all other purposes. Intermountain Beet Sugar Companies We Can Not Too Strongly Urge. That you bind your 1938 Relief Society Magazine in one durable, attractive volume. You more than double the value of your subscription to this fine publication by making readily accessible to the whole family the wonderful reading material it contains. Handsome cloth binding, gold stamped, $1.50 per volume. Special reductions for quantities. Write us about this offer.
The DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street—Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
"A Mother's Faith to carry on" and a father's Life Insurance is the Foster Father. Of the race.
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE Heber J. Grant, President
"RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good; and again tobacco is not for the body or the belly, and is not good for man. All grain is ordained for the use of man...And all grain is good for the food of man...All wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man—every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving...And again, hot drinks are not for the body or the belly...All saints who remember to keep and do these sayings...shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones."
APRIL, 1939
Vol. XXVI No. 4
PAID Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah
Index to Advertisers
American Lady Baking Company.........246 Beesley Music Company...............284 Beneficial Life Insurance Company... Back Cover Bennett Glass & Paint Company.......283 Deseret Book Store......... Inside Back Cover Deseret News Press......... Inside Back Cover W. P. Fuller & Company..............281 L. D. S. Business College...........213 Mountain Fuel Supply Company........283 Newhouse Hotel.....................284 O. P. Skaggs Food Stores...........264 University of Utah.................218 Utah Power & Light Company.........218 Vogeler's.........................264
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MORE THAN 40,000 SUBSCRIBERS
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH Summer Session, 1939 June 12-July 21; Post Session July 25-August 18
Of special interest to Relief Society workers: Two courses in Child Welfare offered by Louis E. Evans, Director of Social Research and in charge of the course for training social workers, University of Indiana.
Numerous other courses, free public lectures, and recitals will be available.
Send for Bulletin.
Address: The President, University of Utah Salt Lake City
FISHER'S vitamin "D" BREAD abounds with all the natural goodness and health that Mother Nature can bestow... And adds more! Vitamin "D". True bread flavor is retained, and you get your sunshine regardless of the weather. Vitamin D puts body and bone builders to work building better teeth and stronger bones. It is essential to your health and it's good! Get it at your grocers!
Product of American Lady Baking Co.
See the $25.10 MIRRO ALUMINUM SET being offered with the purchase of a new Electric Range
You'll surely want it, so drop in today. The time is limited!
See Your Electric Range Dealer or Utah Power & Light Co.
"L. D. S. Training Pays!"
GIVE MARKET VALUE To your high school or college education. Take a course in business training!
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City
Ask for "Bulletin of Information"
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
The Relief Society Magazine
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVI APRIL, 1939 No. 4
Contents
Special Features
The Prophets Speak...................................................215 Frontispiece—Heber J. Grant.........................................216 The Miracle of Carthage Jail.........................Joseph A. And Eunice McRae....217 Adventures With Books....................................Sidney B. Sperry....223 A Boy's Tithing Problem..........................Bishop LeGrand Richards....227 Out-of-door Development of the Home Beautiful.................Rachel B. Morris....228 When It's Springtime...............................Barbara Badger Burnett....231 The Women's Field Army for the Control of Cancer..............Mrs. J. L. Gibson....243
Fiction
Ghost Writer................................................Wilford D. Lee....235 The Shining Heart (Continued)............................Sibyl Spande Bowen....259 All In A Day (Play)....................................Rosannah C. Irvine....252
General Features
Spring Tonics..........................................Dorothy Nell Mair....245 Happenings..........................................Annie Wells Cannon....247
Editorials:
A Record Shall Be Kept.....................................................248 Arbor Day................................................................249
Items of Interest:
Our Cover.................................................................250 Pan American Day..........................................................250 Pageant Notice............................................................250 Prayer............................................Lula Greene Richards....251 Have You A Hobby?......................................Beatrice E. Linford....263 The Body's Need For Vitamins...............................Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe....266 Notes from the Field....................................Julia A. F. Lund....271 Music Department......................................Janet M. Thompson....276 Pushing Back Last Year's Leaves........................Kathleen B. Nelson....276
Lessons
Can the Family Have Two Heads?.................................................278
Poetry
Restoration..........................................Lee Stokes....222 Night Stillness.....................................William A. Forsyth....226 On Reading..........................................Mildred B. Hall....246 Gifts..............................................Christie Lund....262 The Singing Mothers....................................Ruth May Fox....276 Heaven Is Near......................................Mabel Jones....234 Spring in Idaho.....................................Ione Pace....265
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
THE PROPHETS SPEAK
Joseph Smith: "No official member in this Church is worthy to hold an office after having the Word of Wisdom properly taught him, and he, the official member, neglecting to comply with and obey it."
Brigham Young: "The constitution that a person has should be nourished and cherished; and whenever we take anything into the system to force and stimulate it beyond its natural capacity, it shortens life."
John Taylor: "And in regard to drunkenness we will not be contaminated nor disgraced with infamy of such conduct—and as the honesty of a man can only be tested by his having temptation within his reach, so no man can be considered as acting properly who cannot let liquor alone, when that is within his reach."
Wilford Woodruff: "And when counsel comes we should not treat it lightly, no matter to what subject it pertains, for if we do it will work evil unto us. We have been called upon by the Lord and His servants to keep the Word of Wisdom; it is time we did it."
Lorenzo Snow: "Our mission is to the world and not simply to carry the Gospel to the people, but to establish plans and lay schemes for their temporal salvation. Our object is the temporal salvation of the people as much as their spiritual salvation."
Joseph F. Smith: "When I see a man professing to be a Latter-day Saint, or even professing to be a member of the Church, though not making any great professions of being a Latter-day Saint, befouling his breath with intoxicating drink, with the fumes of tobacco, or unnecessarily indulging in stimulants, it grieves my spirit, my soul goes out for him in pity and in sorrowful regret, and I wonder why it is that we, individually, cannot realize our own folly, our own degradation in yielding to these pernicious habits that are neither useful or ornamental, nor in the least degree beneficial, but indeed harmful." —Conference Address, April, 1908.
"During all my lifetime since childhood I have never known of one man or woman who was an honest, conscientious tithepayer, who observed the Word of Wisdom and who attended his or her Fast meetings and Sacrament meetings and partook of the spirit of those meetings, to lose his or her faith." —President Heber J. Grant.
The Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XXVI APRIL, 1939 No. 4
The Miracle of Carthage Jail
By Joseph A. And Eunice McRae
ILLINOIS was admitted to the Union in 1818. Hancock County, situated on the western side of the state, bounded on the west by the Mississippi River, was organized in 1825. At the time it was organized it was dependent upon Adams County, to the south. However, it became independent in 1829. There was considerable controversy in the beginning over the location of the county-seat. The first four sessions of court were held at the home of James White, who lived on the river shore near the ferry landing, directly west of what later became Commerce and then Nauvoo. Two sessions were held in the home of Hazen Bedell, further south along the river shore. A log court house was erected in the town of Montebello, six miles south of where Nauvoo is now located, where court was held until the close of 1832.
In 1833 the three commissioners of Morgan County, on the north, were appointed by the legislature to select a site for a Hancock county-seat. Two of these men met with the Hancock County commissioners and, after making a thorough investigation, selected the site on township 5 north, range 6 west, the northwest quarter of section 19. Their report was signed March 21, 1833. One of the committee had been reading ancient history, especially that of the Punic wars and the founding of Carthage in Africa. The history stated that Carthage is a Phoenician and Hebrew word, meaning "New City". So our Carthage came into existence as a "New City". The town at the present writing has a population of 2,200, with beautiful homes and seven churches.
THE historical center of interest in Carthage is the "Old Jail". Silent and awe inspiring it stands, and few buildings in the vicinity are as old. The contract for the jail was let to William Metcalf in the year 1839. Samuel Dickinson was associate contractor. The building was constructed of a peculiar limestone slightly yellow in color. The oldest residents do not agree upon the location of the quarry from which the stone was taken. In an effort to locate similar stone to fill a small space below a window, we hunted through several quarries in vain. At last, matching
218 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
stone was secured from the foundation of an old barn. However, the owner did not know where it originally came from.
The building, which faces south, is two and one-half stories high. There are three rooms on the ground floor. The dining room in the northeast corner is perhaps the one where the Prophet and his brother ate their last meal on earth. The southeast corner room was a living room and has a spacious fireplace. Looking at the smoke-stained rocks on either side, one can well imagine the many tales here told of heroism in hunting bear, wolves and other inhabitants of the forests as well as tales of Indian encounters. The hearth was made of brick, much worn during the years. The other room on this floor is in the northwest corner of the building and is known as the "debtor's" room. It is approximately 12x12 feet, about the size of the dining room. On the floor of this room the Prophet and his companions spent at least one night. This room is the only one in the building showing any evidence of bars on the windows.
There are two rooms on the second floor. The north room was a cell room where the more dangerous prisoners were confined. Just how many cells were in this room is not known, for the records are not in existence. This room is the one into which Elder Willard Richards carried Elder John Taylor after he had been so cruelly wounded. Elder Richards calls this room "the dungeon"; hence, there was perhaps but one window—at the present there are two windows. The floor and ceiling joists of this room are made of hand-hewed oak logs, eight inches thick and placed close together. The floor and ceiling were doubtless covered with 1¼ inch oak, tongued and grooved. There was a cage at the entrance, but the cells and the cage have long ago been taken away. The entrance is directly facing the head of the stairs.
To the right and east of the stairway is a door leading into the room where the tragedy of the Martyrdom occurred. This room has a fireplace and three windows, two on the south side and one on the east. Through the east window the Prophet jumped to his death. The shot which wounded Elder Taylor came through this window, the ball striking his silver watch and throwing him back into the room. In this room President Hyrum Smith's body was found on the floor, his head toward the east. The shot came through the door—the bullet hole still remaining. Another shot was fired through the edge of the door, but this piece has since been removed and a piece of pine fills the place. The piece that was taken from the side of the door is here in Carthage, and we have hopes that some day we shall be able to have it replaced. This room was evidently the jailor's bedroom, for we read that Elder John Taylor rolled under the bed. Blood stains on the floor are mute evidence of what happened there. The two rooms in the attic were doubtless used as storage rooms.
IN 1866 the building was sold to Bryant F. Peterson. He remodeled the inside and used it for a residence. The cells were removed and also the bars from the windows of the "debtor's" room. Mr. Peterson paid
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 219
the county $1,100 for the property. He sold it to J. M. Browning for $1,500, who in turn deeded it to his wife. Mrs. Browning purchased another lot on the east, giving her one-fourth of the block. In 1903 Mr. Browning died, and Mrs. Browning sold the property to President Joseph F. Smith, Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for $4,000.
During the occupancy of the Brownings several changes were made. One window on the south was removed and
[IMAGE: ARTOIS HAMILTON, OWNER OF THE HAMILTON HOTEL. HE TOOK CARE OF THE BODIES OF JOSEPH AND HYRUM AT HIS HOTEL DURING THE NIGHT OF JUNE 27, 1844 AND ACCOMPANIED THEM TO NAUVOO THE NEXT MORNING]
a French window installed, which opened into a conservatory. A little kitchen on the east was removed and a larger addition took its place. The well was filled and flowers planted over the spot. Considerable difficulty was experienced by us in locating the old well. The oldest inhabitants were not agreed as to its exact location, but we began digging, and, though we removed enough soil to have dug several wells, at last we found a place which seemed to be earth filled. We went down with a hole six feet in diameter to a depth of 19 feet before the wall of the well was encountered.
At the bottom we found two and one-half feet of the old brick wall. The well is now all walled up. There is a curb on top, and we intend putting in an old-fashioned windlass, as was there in the beginning, with an "old oaken bucket".
After the Church came into possession of the place, it was left vacant for a long time, then it was rented and turned into a rooming house. This continued for about eighteen years until the present occupants arrived.
220 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
During the past year considerable work has been done on the outside and some on the inside. The corners of the building have been reinforced by concrete footings extending ten feet each way. There has also been a reinforced concrete wall constructed around the building, which extends from below the bottom of the foundation to the soil line. This should secure the building for another hundred years. The crevices between the stone on the outside have all been repointed with lime and cement. Paint has been removed from the doors and windows on the inside. There are six original doors in the house, and they are all made of solid walnut. The door casings are made of oak, walnut and butternut. Some of the door frames have been made out of logs, hand hewed. Being full of knots, they required considerable work to shape. Those who shaped them were men with plenty of time and patience. This hardwood, after all these years of seasoning, takes on a beautiful polish. The hardwood used in the jail we found difficult to match, for a number of places had been eaten by rats, and we had to find wood for repair. On the whole we were quite successful, though the task required much time, some of the wood having to be ripped from larger pieces. Some of the solid walnut seats in the windows are 25 inches wide, and they have plenty of knots, too.
Carthage Jail has a peculiar record. Some of the noblest and choicest of God's servants were housed here, and also some of his Satanic majesty's most diabolical demons. The Prophet had a premonition of coming doom. Elder John Taylor, who left his blood on the floor but was miraculously saved to later preside over the Church he so courageously defended, said: "We all of us felt unusually dull and languid, with a remarkable depression of spirits. In consonance with those feelings I sang a song that had lately been introduced into Nauvoo, entitled A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief.
"The song is pathetic and the tune plaintive and was very much in accordance with our feelings at the time, for our spirits were all depressed, dull and gloomy, and surcharged with indefinite, ominous forebodings. After a lapse of time Brother Hyrum requested me again to sing that song. I replied, 'Brother Hyrum, I do not feel like singing;' when he remarked, 'O, never mind; commence singing, and you will get the spirit of it.' At his request I did so. Soon afterwards I was sitting at one of the front windows of the jail, when I saw a number of men with painted faces, coming around the corner of the jail and aiming toward the stairs." (See Roberts' Rise and Fall of Nauvoo.)
CARTHAGE JAIL is known throughout the world. The register of visitors has names from England, far-off India, Brazil, Australia—in fact from the farthermost parts of the earth. Some come to ridicule and make light of the events that have made the historic house famous, but usually they go away with a quiet demeanor and reverential respect for the participants of that terrible tragedy. Some give way to denuncia-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 221
[IMAGE: A VIEW OF THE OLD CARTHAGE JAIL SHOWING THE WELL IN PROCESS OF RESTORATION. THE SECOND STORY WINDOW IS THE ONE THROUGH WHICH JOSEPH WAS SHOT AS HE WAS ABOUT TO LEAP. JOSEPH A. McRAE STANDS NEAR THE WELL]
tions against the deed which was committed. One gentleman said: "I can tell you why those men were murdered. They were too prosperous; they were too high-minded and had too exalted ideals to suit the surrounding populace, who were made up of the 'riff-raff' of humanity. Such people cannot look at the success of others without envy." So, various opinions are advanced, not always unprejudiced, but those who are unfair show how little they know about what they say, when confronted with the facts.
The "Old Jail" stands a monument to the past and a testimony to the children of the future. Finished only four years before the tragedy that stained its floors with the blood of martyrs, the only important event ever happening in the old structure marks it from the thousands of jails throughout the world. The tragedy of the Martyrdom marks the beginning of a great migration which almost parallels the march of the Children of Israel. Joseph Smith's name was little known at the time of his death; now it is known in every part of the earth. His teachings are broadcast throughout the world. Those misguided men who took part in the assassination that deprived the world of two of God's vicegerents thought they had destroyed the work of those men, but they only gave it stimulus that hastened it to greater heights. Carthage Jail was the beginning, not the end.
Reputed to have numbered about 20,000 at the time of
222 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the Martyrdom, the adherents now approach nearly 800,000 in number. And where are the men who painted their faces for disguise and took part in the terrible deed? Gone, and their posterity do not boast of the deeds of their fathers; some of the principals died unenviable deaths. Carthage Jail stands as a "Miracle" of a past age, in the midst of a changing world, when buildings of the yesterdays are razed to make room for more modern structures. In the midst of the thought that the "old must pass," the old stone building has weathered the storms of one hundred years, bearing mute testimony that the ways of men are not the ways of God. We are happy in our work in this historic monument; we love it, and we have many opportunities to defend the faith of our fathers. We have made many friends and have received many letters of appreciation for the information we have given.
RESTORATION
By Lee Stokes
The youth and the angel Alone on the hill In the glory of sunset In the peace and the still;
And the dust of the ages Has spoken at last, While the light of the Gospel On error is cast.
The records of gold By the angel defined Are freighted with hope For the good of mankind.
And Joseph the Seer, No longer a youth, Descends from the hill-top A prophet of Truth.
Adventure With Books
By Sidney B. Sperry
ONE summer evening a few years ago the class in Hebrew gathered as usual in my office at Brigham Young University. Brother Howard Salisbury brought a book which made this particular evening unusually interesting and profitable. It was a Hebrew Bible that had been used by President Heber C. Kimball in the School of the Prophets just one hundred years before. The Bible was bound in dark leather, and President Kimball's name was printed in gold letters across the front of it. Rich in historical associations, the book gave us all a thrill as we examined it. It was to prove, however, a forerunner of surprises.
Some evenings later Brother Jessie Washburn, Principal of the Provo Seminary and one of the veteran teachers of the Church, came to class and casually tossed two old books on the table around which we were seated. One of the books caught my eye. It was a Hebrew Bible about the size of President Kimball's, but not as attractively bound. I found the Bible to be the same edition as the other. Hastily turning to the front of the book I searched for a signature. There was one. A tingle went up my spine as I read: "Horace K. Whitney, May, 1836." Here, without any doubt, was another Bible that was used in the School of the Prophets.
I then examined the other book Brother Washburn had brought and read on the cover the following:
A Manual Hebrew Grammar, For the Use of Beginners By J. Seixas Second Edition enlarged and improved.
I knew this was a copy of Prof. Seixas' Hebrew grammar such as had been used by Joseph Smith and his brethren in the School of the Prophets. Turning to the inside of the book we found Horace K. Whitney's name and the date, as in his Hebrew Bible. All of us by now were intensely interested.
"Brother Washburn," I asked, "where did you get these?"
"Oh, in an old bookstore in Salt Lake today. I asked them if they had any Hebrew books for sale, and they brought these out. They gave me both of them for fifty cents!"
Brother Washburn had not yet had time to examine the books, and our discovery of the signatures made us all realize the value of his purchase.
After a few days I came to Salt Lake and acting on a "hunch" went to a bookstore that dealt in second-hand books. I asked the lady who waited on me if she had any Hebrew Bibles or grammars for sale. She replied that she wasn't sure there were any left because a man had purchased several a number of days before. But in a few minutes she returned with three books. Two of them I quickly discarded as being of no particular value and turned to the third. To my surprise and satis-
224 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
faction it was another copy of Professor Seixas' Manual Hebrew Grammar. Hiding my excitement as best I could I turned over the cover and there on the fly leaf somewhat covered up by childish scrawls in red crayon was the following:
N. K. Whitney June 1836
I had in my hands the very Hebrew grammar used by Newel K. Whitney in the School of the Prophets. Brother Whitney was the father of Horace K. Whitney and the grandfather of the late Apostle Orson F. Whitney.
I turned to the lady who was waiting on me and asked, "How much do you want for this?"
She looked at the listing in the book and said, "It's marked fifty cents, but I'll let you have it for a quarter."
Needless to say, the book is one of the principal treasures of my library.
Subsequently Brother James R. Clark, now Library Assistant at Brigham Young University, not to be outdone, picked up in a Salt Lake bookshop a copy of Riggs' Aramaic Grammar with the name of W. W. Phelps inscribed on an inner leaf. The date, 1832, was also indicated. Brother Phelps was closely associated with the Prophet Joseph Smith in the early days of the Church, and the Aramaic grammar is a remarkable commentary on the breadth of his interests.
SPEAKING of Bibles—the reader will note one of my hobbies— about 1930 while teaching Hebrew to a few students at Moscow, Idaho, I sent an order for several inexpensive Hebrew Bibles to a book dealer in Chicago. In due time they arrived. They were of many editions and sizes. There was one edition in two volumes beautifully bound in leather. It was too bulky for student use, so I put it on a shelf in my office and promptly forgot it.
Some months later I was perusing a volume dealing with various editions of the Bible. It contained a picture of two pages from the first American edition of the Hebrew Bible. The general make-up and style of these pages vaguely reminded me of a Hebrew Bible I had seen before. Getting up from my chair I pulled down the two volume Hebrew Bible from the shelf where it had reposed for so long and examined it carefully. Turning to the title page in the first volume, I found myself the happy possessor of a set of the first American edition of the Hebrew Bible printed in Philadelphia in 1814. The invoice from the Chicago book dealer showed that I had obtained the set for fifty cents! I am informed by a New York expert that it is worth twenty times what I paid for it. The satisfaction one gets from obtaining a book of this kind lies not so much in its pecuniary value as in the fact that it has made history. Few persons realize the tremendous influence the Bible has had in shaping American democracy.
BOOKS have personality. Sometimes one can take a book with an ordinary personality and completely transform it in a very short time, and usually an adventure accompanies the transformation. Let me give an illustration:
On the afternoon of April 6, 1929, I attended a reception at the University of Chicago in honor of Professor Adolf Deissmann, who had been a towering figure in New Testament scholarship for a generation. He was professor of New Testament at the University of Berlin. Scholars came hundreds of miles to meet him. It was a memorable occasion, and I determined to make the most of it. Before leaving my study room I pulled down from my bookshelves a copy of Professor Deissmann's New Light on the New Testament, which had been published in 1908. It was a little out of date, but suited my purpose. Taking it in my hands, I proceeded to the reception room where the crowd was gathering. After a short program we all lined up to meet Dr. Deissmann. I was astonished at the height and breadth of the man. He was a giant physically as well as mentally. When it came my turn to meet him he cordially shook my hand, and I asked if he would autograph the little dark blue volume I extended to him. He looked at it, and his face beamed with pleasure. Stepping to a near by table he autographed the book in old German script and added the date. Meanwhile I could hear several around me expressing their regrets that they did not bring books to be autographed.
Occasionally one may acquire almost by accident a book having an unusual personality. One day I stepped into a London bookstore not far from the British Museum. In an obscure corner I discovered a number of old Syriac New Testaments, grammars, histories and other works of interest to specialists. I made a number of purchases including a copy of William Cureton's Four Gospels in Syriac.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 225
This book, published in 1858, reveals the text of an ancient manuscript of the Gospels found by Dr. Cureton in the Nitrian Desert in 1842-47. The manuscript is now in the British Museum. Not until I returned to America did the book receive a careful examination. On the inside of its cover I made an interesting discovery. Written in fairly heavy ink was the following:
Francis Teluy Basett (spelling of last two names uncertain) Dulverton Vicarage
Immediately below this in lighter ink was another name and notation in a feminine hand as follows:
Agnes S. Lewis bought April 11, 1893
Mrs. Agnes Smith Lewis was probably the greatest woman Bible scholar of all time. She was the wife of S. S. Lewis, a distinguished English archaeologist. With her learned sister, Mrs. Gibson, she discovered in 1892, at a convent on Mt. Sinai, a very ancient manuscript of the Gospels in the Syriac language. She published a translation of it in 1894 and a new edition in 1896. The copy of Cureton's work in my possession is evidently the very one used by Mrs. Lewis in making preliminary studies of the Syriac manuscript she and her sister had discovered. It is another of my very prized possessions.
AS a member of the Library Committee at Brigham Young University I have numerous interesting adventures with books, sometimes on a large scale. Last spring I examined a catalog
226 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
from a British book concern in London that had for sale several rare or valuable sets of books dealing with archaeology. One set, Archaeologia, published by the Society of Antiquaries of London, contained 107 volumes running from 1770 to 1930. Another set was the Proceedings of the Society of Biblical Archaeology and still others were the Proceedings of the Cambridge Antiquarian Society and The Survey of Western Palestine.
I realized that these books would be of immense value for research and reference purposes in the fields of Bible, Book of Mormon, English, archaeology, etc. We are always especially desirous of getting fundamental works in the field of religion because of the importance of the latter at Brigham Young University. Even a layman can see the value of having such fine sets at the Church university. The prices placed on these valuable works were so low as to surprise me. I went to President Franklin S. Harris and asked if it would be possible to send immediately for them. He was toiling over the University budget, and no funds could be spared at the time; but he promised that if possible he would send for them later. I thought to myself, "These books will be snapped up by some institution before our order ever gets there." However, late in the summer I was happily surprised by the arrival of all the sets in good condition. Our buy was a splendid one and will add materially to the religious sources available in the Heber J. Grant library.
NIGHT STILLNESS
By William A. Forsyth
The night was beautiful. The atmosphere Mystically still. A full moon in a cloudless sky Looking down From a background of softly floating stars Brought to my troubled mind And saddened soul A calm and gentle stillness, A tranquil peace.
A Boy's Tithing Problem
By Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards
The following problem has been submitted to us by a Latter-day Saint mother: "My son who is a Priest in the Aaronic Priesthood has been taught the principle of tithing to the best of my knowledge. I felt sure he was paying an honest tithing, but upon a closer check-up I was surprised and disappointed to learn that though the boy was paying an honest tithing on a sum which he received regularly from his father's estate, he was not paying a full tithing upon his own earnings. How may I most effectively impress upon the boy the importance of paying a full tithing upon his entire income?" Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards' suggested solution is here presented:
TRY to establish in the mind of the boy the necessity of being as honest with his Heavenly Father in the matter of handling finances as he would be with his earthly father or his employer. If either were to leave him in charge of his business with full right to operate the same according to his best judgment, with the understanding and agreement that strict accounting should be given; and if the boy should sell $100 worth of goods a day and report only sales of $50, how would he feel about it? Would his conscience be clear? Would he feel that it was fair? How long would he expect to retain his position of responsibility?
It should not be difficult to teach a boy that if it is right to pay tithing on any portion of his income, it is right to pay on all. How can we make one part appear more important than another? We are indebted to the Lord for all we enjoy, even for life itself. Without Him we could have no existence. It is because of His planning that the earth was created and that we are privileged to live upon it. But He sent us here with a definite and distinct understanding that we should account to Him for all we do. In this accounting He has asked that we give Him a tenth of our increase annually. If we fail to do this, how will we feel when we appear before Him to account for our stewardship? Will we feel that we have been honest with the Lord? Will we expect Him to say, "Well done, good and faithful servant, thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." Or will we fear that we will be regarded as an unprofitable servant, of whom He said, "Take away even that which he hath. And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth."
Possibly the characteristic most to be desired in life is that of dependability. The Lord must be pleased when He has a son whom He can trust under all circumstances. This He indicated in the case of His servant Job. He permitted the evil one to tempt him almost beyond that which any man could be expected to endure, but the Lord knew his heart and knew that He could depend upon him, and Job did not disappoint Him.
"Not mine to keep—not mine to spend, Not mine to give, not mine to lend, 'Tis the Lord's part—'tis the Lord's part, A tenth of all I gain.
"He gives me all and asks this part, To test the bigness of my heart, 'Tis the Lord's part—'tis the Lord's part, A tenth of all I gain."
Out-of-Door Development of the Home Beautiful
By Rachel B. Morris, Landscape Architect
OUTDOORS into areas or units suited to different uses, just as indoors we have bedrooms, kitchen and such, according to the needs, is the only satisfactory way to enjoy fully our home outside as well as within the four walls.
The wonder of our not-too-distant past is that our "desert was made to blossom as the rose". If we are to build on that heritage in a manner worthy, we must not be content to do the same things that our forebears did, for they knew many handicaps difficult for us to realize, as they struggled from day to day for existence. Grandmother may have had a flower because it was the only one that grew from the few seeds the stranger gave her in exchange for a loaf of bread. Father may have planted the tree where it is because it was the only place he was sure to reach it with water and keep it alive. But for you and me there are the seed catalogs seductive with every color and kind of plant, and the nurseryman willing to supply the requested plants in any stage of growth, or nearby friends who are complimented if we ask for a "start" of some attractive flower that they have been successful in growing. The responsibility that is ours is not to grow something—anything—but to select that which is best suited for our particular purpose.
What might this purpose, this special effect, our individual problem of beautification be? The answers to these questions come only after we have carefully analyzed each situation. Planning outdoor property with the thought of making it more beautiful will first have to do with making it more
[PHOTO CAPTION: WHEN A VIEW LIKE THIS IS AVAILABLE FROM THE INSIDE OF THE HOUSE, THE GARDEN BECOMES A BIT MORE A PART OF THE HOME.]
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 229
[PHOTO CAPTION: AN EXAMPLE OF A HIGHLY SATISFACTORY USE OF OUTDOOR SPACE WITHOUT CENTERING THE HOUSE.]
Tification be? The answers to these questions come only after we have carefully analyzed each situation. Planning outdoor property with the thought of making it more beautiful will first have to do with making it more useful, for beauty without usefulness seems artificial and affected. | Best results will come for the average home when three aspects: are duly studied: first, that of the semipublic, the view seen by all passersby; second, the service, which consists of necessities used for living in and maintaining the house; and third, the private garden, which may vary widely in size and development. The location of the house on the property, the floor plan or arrangement of rooms, and the outdoor plans should all be considered simultaneously. A common opinion is that the house should be "centered" on a town property so as to present a balanced effect. This is more often untrue than not, and often the cause of wasteful and disappointing use of outdoor space. The front facade is balanced by the proper planting of enframing trees or groups of shrubs. If the interest of the house, possibly a doorway or important window, is far to one side, the picture can be made to balance by planting a large tree somewhat to the other side and a much smaller tree on the crowded side—never, of course, in front of a window or door. These trees serve as a frame for the main part of the picture, which is the house. Shrubs, chosen with the size of the house definitely in mind, will help to join the trees, the green grass of the foreground, and the house into a unified group. These shrubs, to be in good taste, will not 230 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be individually too conspicuous either in foliage or shape or they will draw attention away from the house rather-than enframe it. The distance of the house from the street is largely determined by the houses already existing in the neighborhood, because an harmonious note is reached when there is not too great variation. 'The ideal is to allow just enough room for a simple approach, without robbing the ownance of all adjoining lots, is to reserve this space for the setting of the house, which the landscape architect calls the semi-public area. Because this area is semi-public, it is definitely unsuited to any development of a flower garden or useless architectural features such as benches, free standing lattices or other ornaments, which only detract from the main interest of the house and all in all result in an effect a bit THIS ILLUSTRATES THE USE OF HIGH PLANTINGS TO OBTAIN A DEGREE OF PRIVACY FOR YOUR GARDEN. Er of any of the private area that might be developed in the rear. HE charming American tradition which makes the most pleasing impression in the residential sections of our towns and cities is that of wide shady streets and open green lawns. It expresses that very democratic freedom which is America. Rather than push a high wall parallel with a public walk, or hide the house far back in the property, the friendly, good-neighbor expression, which improves the general appearridiculous. Nothing will improve this already well established front lawn tradition in our country so much as keeping lawns neatly cut and green and uncluttered with a number of shoddy ornaments or incongruous flower beds. The next problem is to so arrange the service—kitchen entrance, garage, coal chute and deliveries—so that they are all easily accessible from one driveway. Many unsightly little sheds or old barns are left (Continued on page 281) When It's Springtime By Barbara Badger Burnett JUST as soon as there's a tinge of spring in the air we all want to do things, scratch around in the garden, bring pussy willows and violets and hyacinths into the house, and entertain our friends. The hospitality of every American household, whether it is a simple one or an elaborate one, centers about its dining table. A luncheon is a delightful way of extending this hospitality. A hostess who does things "just right" plans carefully every detail of her luncheon. The menu, of course, is of importance. There is a steady demand for menus, and they are always suggestive; but they seldom fit the case exactly. They depend on times and seasons, localities and pocketbooks, community customs and individual notions. They are helpful but cannot be made wholesale, and slavishly followed. Every luncheon menu, no matter how simple, must be balanced. It must contain adequate amounts of each kind of fodd needed by the body. There must be contrast in texture, harmony in color; and repetition of distinctive flavors must be avoided. A simple rule to follow in planning the menu is to select an appetizer, an entree, a salad, bread in some form, a beverage and a dessert. To this may be added extra dishes to accompany the entree—relishes, candies, and nuts. The entire luncheon may be served hot or cold, depending upon the season, the weather, and the foods selected. Hot and chilled foods may also be mixed. If this is done, it is better to serve them in separate courses. It is important to serve dishes intended to be warm, piping hot, and the chilled ones very cold. Luncheon appetjzers are so versatile that a whole book could be written on them alone. Chilled and jellied bouillons, iced tomato juice — and fruit juices, tart fruit salads, molded or frozen, and strawberries with the stems left on arranged around a mound of powdered sugar are attractive for spring luncheons. All kinds of scalloped dishes make excellent entrees. Scalloped fish baked in individual shells garnished with lemon is a good spring dish. Then there are all kinds of creamed concoctions served in patty shells, timbale cases, and even on toast points. Spring is the very nicest time of the year to make salads. The first onions, tomatoes, radishes, and cucumbers seem to taste the best. Let your salads be festive. Arrange them attractively, mold them, and garnish them gaily. Mint sprigs dampened with cold water and dipped in powdered sugar are delightful for fruit salads. Breads of all kinds, shapes, and - sizes are served with luncheons. Quick breads and dainty tea_biscuits are favorites. Have you tried date muffins and orange biscuits? Spring and summer call for chilled drinks. Long, cold, fruit punches in frosted glasses garnished with cherries and mint add to any menu. They should not be too sweet. Fruit flavors are delicate and are easily spoiled by too much sugar. Besides, a sweet drink ruins the appetite for other foods. 232 - APRIL RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The dessert can be the climax of the meal. If you want to hear "Ohs" and "'Ahs" from your guests, serve a lovely ice cream mold garnished with fresh fruits, or a Baked Alaska. But if you are all on a "slimming" diet, serve a dainty fruit ice. After all, we must remember that a luncheon is a light meal served between breakfast and dinner. We have a tendency to serve more and heavier foods than we should. When you serve at one o'clock, let it be lunch. As to texture, liquid foods such as soups, beverages and sauces, along with chewy foods and crisp ones, make the menu more interesting and palatable. A scheme of one or more harmonizing colors is more interesting than one color alone. Foods are more appetizing in their natural color. Occasionally a touch of violet, or blue, for example, may be added in the form of a decoration or a garnish to carry out some special theme. Coloring of foods is permissible but must be done with care, as over-coloring is unattractive and distasteful. Garnishes are added for decoration, to give color toa dish and often to add flavor. All garnishes must be edible. Crab claws have no more place on the salad plate than paper flowers have on the ice cream. Garnishing can be very easily overdone. A simply garnished dish is generally much more attractive than one which is completely disguised with decorations. Contrasting flavors are just as important as contrast in texture and harmony in color. How unpalatable a luncheon would be if every dish served was bland or if all had a sweet taste. Bland foods need salty or spicy accompaniments. Some foods need a tart sauce. One food or flavor should not appear twice on the menu, such as tomato soup and tomato salad, or onion in the meat and also in the salad, or lemon with fish and lemon pie. IN planning your menu take into consideration the help you will have in preparation and serving; also your equipment for both cooking and serving. Then make a list of all utensils and supplies needed. If possible this should be done several days in advance to give time for ordering if certain foods may not be on the grocer's shelf. Make a working schedule and time chart, and pin them on the kitchen wall or put them some place where you can see them easily as you work. You will find such charts of great value in preparing dishes in their order so that all may be assembled at once and on time. The simplest of menus can be made fit for a king by the way in which they are served. The table appointments and service should be perfect and in keeping with the type of luncheon. If formal, the table covering and dishes are more elaborate, and the food is all served from the kitchen. If the luncheon is one of those happy, informal kinds, the table may be covered with dainty colored linens, fewer dishes may be used, and part of the food may be served from the table by the hostess. Have the table large enough to comfortably seat the guests. It is a good idea to place the chairs around the table first and then lay the covers to correspond. Allow at least twelve inches for each cover. Beautiful linen is the pride and Photo by courtesy of Z. C. M. LUNCHEON SERVICE joy of every hostess. The dignity and beauty of white linen damask make it appropriate for any table, and it forms an exquisite background for glistening silver, glassware, and china. Lace table covers and lace and linen combinations iay also be used. They are more formal, however, than tinted damasks, handblocked linens, 'and fringed runners that are so colorful and attractive for informal use. Some of the most attractive luncheon sets today are made from pastel organdies with appliqued flowers and fruits. Napkins, of course, should match the cloth, and are smaller than the dinner napkin. Styles in table coverings change as all styles do, but a "thing of beauty is a joy forever." - Only silver and dishes which are to be used should be placed on the table. Unnecessary articles are confusing and do not add to the attractiveness of the table. All knives and spoons are placed on the right side of the plate; all forks and the napkin on the left—in the order in which they are to be used, the first used being on the outside. The water glass is placed at the tip of the knife, and the cup and saucer and side dish, if used, to the right. The bread and butter plate, which may be a combination salad and bread plate, is placed at the tip of the fork. If a separate salad plate is used, it is placed directly above the luncheon plate. Since the club plate has been so universally adopted most of the food may be served on the one plate, thus eliminating dishes and service. Table accessories include the centerpiece, place cards, salt and pepper shakers, relish dishes and any other form of decoration which may be 234 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE used. The centerpiece adds charm and color to the table and should be chosen to harmonize with the linen, dishes, and the foods. It may consist of flowers, fruits, a beautifully decorated cake or a lovely ornament. It should be arranged so that it does not inconvenience the guests or interfere with their view. Candles really have no place on a luncheon table unless the room is dark, and they must be used to give light. Place cards afford a graceful means of seating guests. They may be of various forms from fresh flowers to paper. Unless they are of a favor type they belong to the hostess and are left on the table. They may be placed on the napkin, at the top of the cover or against the water glass. Any other decoration used should not interfere in any way with eating or serving. The type of service most acceptable today is the left-hand service. All foods are served, removed and passed from the left, except the cup and saucer and water, which are served from the right. "Happy is he who sits down to the luncheon provided for him with a mind free for social pleasure, secure in the skill and knowledge of his cook." Happier still is the hostess whose luncheon has been so delightful that her guests remember it and ask for her menu and recipes for their own use. RX HEAVEN IS NEAR To share the rising sun with you, To feel the sunset's glow, To see a rosebud open full, Watch summer come and go; To roam through autumn's golden lanes, Or pause on wintry night And know that spring will come again— Then life seems good and right. To ease a body wracked with pain, To soothe an aching heart, To lift a care-worn brother's load, To do a neighbor's part, To dry an orphan's trembling tear, To cheer the sad, depressed, To serve my God and fellowmen— Then life is at its best. To know the joy that working brings, To walk with ease and grace, To hear the song of birds at morn, To look in your dear face, To feel your hand firm clasped in mine, To say, "I love you, dear." Ah, life is full, and life is rich, And heaven's very near. —Mabel Jones, Ghost Writer By Wilford D. Lee ITTING on a chair by the kitchS en table Mary Warwick winced under Maizie McNulty's flying fingers. "I think a man like that," Maizie was saying, "is cheap." "But Maizie! After all; Burton is my husband." "Husband!" Maizie's voice sizzled with scorn. "I don't want to hurt you, but facts are facts. Today your husband and his lawyer were together in his office when my girl friend, who stenos for him, listened in. Believe it or not, but 'dear Burton' is trying to find a way to get rid of you. And you sitting here like a timid mouse!" "Oh Maizie, he wouldn't do that!" "Listen! A woman like you is the last person on earth to believe the truth. You think he's perfect! Well, I think he's..." But Mrs. Warwick raised her hand in a quick gesture. When she arose from the chair, she was crying. "There you go! Crying overa..." "Oh Maizie, please don't... I know... I have probably... " "Yes, you've been the door mat murmuring "Welcome' to that ungrateful politician...." "Maizie... Please!" Maizie dropped into a chair. "Oh, Mary, don't be angry with me. I always have to burst out..." Mrs. Warwick comforted her. "I know... I know..." "But I've lived with you so long," the girl went on. "Coming here just out of school, and you taking me in and treating me like a daughter because you hadn't one of your own, and then... Then... That..." Mrs. Warwick walked to the window. "Divorce," she thought. It chilled her. "He is trying to get a divorce!" Parting the curtains, she looked out at the garden. It was true... It was true. That other woman, so sleek and sophisticated... Mrs. Warwick was short, and much too plump for her height. Even with her glasses off, her face was round; but with the thick lenses in large gold frames before her eyes, she looked positively owlish. Her made-over frock had suffered dismally in the two processes through which it had passed. Her flat-heeled, comfortable shoes neatly finished off a perfect picture of dumpishness. Taking up a long nail file, Maizie inquired, "Mary, how did you ever happen to marry him, anyway?" -"It... It was a peculiar thing," she half confessed. "Burton and I were in the same class in college. He was specializing in speech, and I... Well, I was just going to school. He was such a masterful sort of a fellow, tall and handsome; and when his great voice boomed out over the crowd, it made little tingles just thrill down my spine. Yet I... 'I'm afraid that I have never loved him in the true sense of the word. I... I worshiped him!" Maizie made a derogatory noise in her throat. "I had no idea of ever marrying him. He often used to come and get me to help him with some of the more difficult passages in his speeches. He always had ideas and could memorize like lightning; but 236 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he had difficulty in.. Know..." "T know. Positively, without you he would be a nit-wit, nothing but a big noise." "Maizie!" "And I'll bet you'd never been out with a fellow before in your life." "Oh, I would hardly say that.... But of course, I didn't... Go out much!" "And then his sweetheart jilted him and he married you out of spite," Maizie snapped. "How cheap! Married a cook, a housekeeper and a ghost writer all in one! It's you who have made him a surefire candidate for the Senate. And right now, when a swanky woman would be a big asset to him, he's trying to...". Well, you THE front door opened. Burton Warwick came in and leisurely divested himself of topcoat and hat. Tossing his great mass of hair back over his head, he strode into the room and rubbed his hands together before the fire. Half turning, as a great tragedian might turn upon the stage, he asked, "You have... A... Finished looking over those last few words in my Rotary speech tonight, dear?" His deep voice rumbled like the chords of a great organ; yet he did not sound affected. He did not sound hypocritical. When he spoke, there was a deep and pervading sincerity, heightened by a dignity that was convincing even to Maizie. Every movement of his body, every little trick of facial expression, even his slightest gesture, heightened the effect. One could not talk with him a moment without feeling the power of his personality. Mrs. Warwick stood at hesitant attention before him. "I'm sorry, Burton," she confessed, ''I have been so busy.... But I have only a page or two left. I will do those while you are eating your dinner." With her swift, capable hands, she prepared the meal—chops, a salad, the dessert. He was sitting with a lawyer... Divorce.... She had been a failure! Her heart throbbed painfully in her tight throat. Yet maybe the girl was mistaken.... Her husband had hardly finished the headlines of his front page when she stepped to his side and quietly 'announced that his meal was ready. But immediately she escaped. She had always felt inferior; she always felt the impulse to grovel at his feet when he came into the room. She couldn't help it. She attributed it to the fact that she had been born in the country, and that she had never had much of anything before —lived in a bare little house, and scrimped eternally in order to get through. This gruelling hardship had done something to her.... Given her a poverty complex, Maizie said. Before she sat down to her typewriter, she surveyed herself in the mirror. She did look a sight! Hair wet, with metal clamps all over it. She ran her hands down over her ribs to her hips and then to her thighs. Enormous rolls of flesh... And that string of a belt... A sack of bran tied in the middle! She turned and seated herself quickly. Running her eyes over the last few sentences, she picked up the thread of his discourse.... "And so this economic system must be changed. Although we do not wish to do away with capitalism, although we do not desire to embarrass those who have made these United States the greatest nation that has ever graced the earth, yet we do wish to set the stage for a greater civilization. But a greater civilization cannot be reared upon the foundation of an outworn economic system. 'Blessed is he who buildeth his house upon a rock. Though the winds come, and the rains descend, the house falleth not because it is builded upon a rock....'" So he wants an attractive looking wife does he? What base ingratitude! He had used her wit and her logic for the last ten years, and now that success was near... She sat there with her fingers numb and cold upon the keys. A great lump of pain welled up within her. She gripped her hands together. Yet he was so big, so grand; she had admired him so much for the good that was in him. Suddenly she realized that ever since she had known him she had voluntarily shut her eyes to at least half of what he was. She knew that he was not at all well informed. He dared not answer questions after his talks, and he never gave anything but prepared speeches. He hid behind that impenetrable dignity. Yet always he dressed her own pregnant words with golden eloquence. The opening of the door startled her. There he stood, silent. She had not finished his speech! She had been sitting there for half an hour, mooning out of the window. Her fingers flew to their task. While he was changing, she tapped out the final paragraphs, swinging them to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 237 a final close with three ringing sentences which would resound through the hall. She could always hear his vibrant voice as she wrote. Great, resounding words came to her fingers, words that fitted his organ-bass voice as perfectly as their profound meaning fitted his dignity. THE next week was torment itself for Mary Warwick. Like one suddenly struck dizzy and unable to recover, she went about her work. Her husband, preoccupied with the swift-moving details of his campaign, observed nothing. Having the name of being a great liberal, he satisfied the masses of the people. Meeting his wife in the hall after breakfast one morning, he instructed her concerning his next big address. It was to be at the laying of the corner stone of the new Federal building. It looked as if it had distinct possibilities. Mary would recognize them, of course.... Mary did recognize them. All through the morning as she did her work, in the afternoon as she shopped, throughout the evening prowling through the book stacks at the library, she planned and thought. The great unemployment problem, its complex causes, its multiple ills, the responsibility of the government for the lives of such men. Work projects such as this Federal building was one answer. Yet as she worked, something else was going on within her. Bitterness welled up in her soul; she could see it all now. Why had she been so wantonly blind! Bitterness ripened into a new cynicism which bit deeper because it was unexpressed. On Monday Burton went on a 238 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE trip south, but he was back on Thursday in time to rest thoroughly before the banquet. Before five o'clock Mary came and laid his speech beside him on the end table. She hesitated as he fumbled through its crisp pages. "I would like to go tonight, Burton," she murmured. "But my dear," he rumbled. "You don't understand. This is politics. Rough and tumble attack and counter attack which you wouldn't enjoy in the least. Stay here and rest yourself. Read a good book. It will be more to your liking." The next morning the paper ran an excellent candid camera shot of her husband laughing behind his hand into the ear of a bejewelled and aristocratic woman. Mrs. Warwick recognized her as the woman who had been included in the hunting party which Burton had joined on his trip south. She caught her breath. Why not slip out of it all and return to her old home? At home she never felt the necessity of groveling before anyone, It would be quite easy. There was a time when Burton needed her to prepare his meals for him, but now he ate at hotels most of the time. But the thought of separation caught her and tore at her heart strings. What would she do to satisfy her longing to create? She loved to write. She had never been able to express herself in society. She could punish him by not writing his speeches, but that would punish her more. How she loved to hear her ideas, as they fell from the lips of her husband, become the ringing clarion calls for freedom and equality! How could she leave all this? She paced the floor in the agony of her indecision. She looked up as the door flew open, and Maizie breezed in. "Hello, Mary, I've got us a couple of hot tamales for our supper. Hope 'His Eloquency' isn't at home tonight. Say ° " she stopped to look at Mrs. Warwick more closely, "what ails you?" "Oh, Maizie, I'm so distracted! I don't know what to do. I've just about decided to slip away and go home. That would give him a good excuse for divorcing me; then he could marry the other woman...." Maizie turned upon her with withering scorn. "You jellyfish! Come on and eat a tamale with me, and you will be a changed woman." Changed woman! The thought struck Mary with particular force. Suddenly something inside of her clicked, and she saw things in a new light. She had no end of courage when she was writing, but -in just about everything else she was a jellyfish. Here she sat never making any effort to better herself... Never making any effort to make herself acceptable. No wonder he didn't want her! She wasn't beautiful, she wasn't clever, she wasn't useful.... "Maizie," she murmured, trying to keep her voice calm in the excitement of the new thought, "would you help me do something?" Maizie looked up from her plate. "What is it? A burglary?" Mary stammered. "It isn't, but it's almost as bad. I'm going to be a changed woman!" "A-Ah! I told you. Males! What. "I'm going to dress up! I'm going. It's the ta- to get me some cloth... Some new cloth...." Maizie's face fell.. "Oh now listen, Mary. You know how you are as a dressmaker." The new light died in her eyes. "Yes, you are right," Mary agreed. "Yet... Maybe I can get something almost as cheap ready made...." Maizie yawned behind her hand. "Did I hear you say that you were going to be a changed woman?" she asked Janguidly. "Yes! I'm going to dress up... Get clothes that will make me look... You know... But I'll have to scrimp...." Maizie nodded. "Scrimp? Did you ever do anything else?" "Well, Burton can't afford..." Maizie sniffed scornfully. "Say, do you know how much money you have earned that man in the last ten years? Everybody but you knows that his bank account runs into six figures. And you talk of scrimping!" "Not honestly!" Her eyes were big behind her glasses. "Now listen, if you really want to be a changed woman, put yourself in my care!" wat Maizie did to Mary Warwick was, as she put it, nobody's business. Golden afternoons were spent in exclusive salons. Hours of walking to and fro to get used to high heels and flowing skirts. Minute instructions on how to sit and stand, and move. Like one possessed, the amazing Maizie pled, threatened, coaxed and demanded, until Mary talked and walked with confidence, like a lady. All this was with Mary's consent. But Maizie did more. She dropped RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 239 a hint to a fellow worker who whispered it into the ear of a client; the client, a sales lady, passed it on to the bookkeeper, who was a special friend of the boss' secretary. The secretary mentioned it in an off-hand way to the boss who hurried to the man he was supporting for the United States Senate, and who was hard put to keep up his end of the race with the eloquent Burton Warwick. The next morning Maizie dropped a hint to Mary. "If you have a caller of consequence today, treat him well." And she went off to work, That morning at ten, Burton's opponent called. Mary donned a simple but becoming morning frock and stepped into the living room. Her hair, done high up on her head, made her look taller. Her new octagon rimless glasses helped to remove the owlishness. She greeted her caller confidently. The candidate squirmed a bit and beat about the bush, but finally came flat out and said it. "Look here, Mrs. Warwick, word has come to me that you're the one who writes Burton's speeches. If that's true, you're a crackerjack. Now, to be right plain, how much would you take to come over into our camp?" For a moment Mary's head swam. Treason... Bribery.... The whole proposition leaped into her mind full formed. She almost burst with a fierce denunciation; but something back in her head warned her. Maizie's words that morning.... "If you have a caller of consequence..." The opposing candidate squirmed forward, taking this silence for tacit approval. "I'm backed by some of 240 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the biggest industries in the state," he told her confidentially. "We have a little money set aside for the people who might help us organize our thoughts." He tried to read the effect of his words in her face. A half hour later he left the house and bounded into his car. A sly grin showed in the rear view mirror. As he jerked the machine into high. WO days later Burton Warwick returned from his swing into the northern part of the state. Weary and travel stained, he came into the living room, but Mary was not there to greet him. He glanced about, irritated. Losing his dignity, for the moment, he turned and shouted, "Mary!" He threw open the doors, finally arriving at her room. She was standing before her mirror, tastefully attired in an afternoon gown, and was just adding a final touch of lipstick to her now thoroughly approachable mouth. "Hello, Burt," she tossed at him indifferently. "Have a good trip?" He stood and looked at her dumbfounded. "I'm off to a reception," she explained. "A women's club wants me to discuss some problems of the campaign." This was a fib. She glanced slyly sidewise to see just how it landed. "Women's clubs!" he cried, seeking excuse for an explosion. "Of all the insane things! Women's clubs!" "But you find them very useful, don't you? Women's votes count just as much as men's!" "Yes, but... But..." "Just sit down a moment, dear." (She had rehearsed this jab for days. It-hurt her worse than it did him.) "You are quite inarticulate. I will write you out an ironical diatribe against women's clubs. You can memorize it while I put on my gloves." "Mary! What is all this? What do you mean? You..." She swept past him. A taxi at the door swished her away to her meeting. At ten-thirty that night she returned. Burton Warwick, his great mane hanging over his ears, leaped toward the door to meet her. "Great guns, where have you been? Out all afternoon! No supper! No newspaper! Where's my speech?" It took all of her nerve, but she had steeled herself for it. Her knees quaked under her. She slowly stripped off her gloves until she knew that her voice would be steady. "Your speech? Really, Burt, I've been too busy this week to write it. Senator Jackson came over the first of the week and wanted me to help him with some of his speeches. It's been quite a job." He turned white. "Senator Jackson! You... You don't. Mean that "I needed a little pocket money. You see the allowance which you give me is so atrociously inadequate." »? He leveled a terrible glance at her. "Traitor!" he cried. She arched her eyebrows. '""Traitor? Me? Oh I don't know. I found Senator Jackson to be a really charming man. Besides..." her voice quivered... She was almost in tears.... "I thought you were about through with me." The shot struck hard. The accus- ing light died in his eyes. Gradually he turned away. Casting a sly glance at her as he slumped into his big chair he asked suavely, "Through with you? Why, I don't understand." She turned away from him, shutting her eyes for a few moments to fight back the tears. The line that she had rehearsed so diligently came to her mind, but it was almost impossible for her to say it. "My... My lawyer," she faltered, "tells me that you have absolutely no grounds for a divorce. But I thought..." her eyes swam in tears, "... I thought that I might go out and give you cause." She disappeared silently while he sat startled. The next day at the corner stone rites Burton Warwick halted through an erratic speech, while his opponent, the clever Senator Jackson, sat back in a distant part of the audience and chuckled. The following day, before a convention of the State Manufacturers Association, the Senator spoke as he had never spoken before. His witticisms were more refined, and they cut deeper, exposing deficiencies in Warwick's character which none knew except Mary. Enminently pleased with himself, the Senator reeled off his prepared speech, winding up with such a powerful scorching for those who meddled with the status quo, that the convention simply went wild. When he was through, he stepped into a near by room in the hotel to squeeze the small gloved hand of a certain person who had "revised" his speech for him. "Little girl," he declared, "it was great! Did you hear the hand I got? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 241 And it's all because of you! Now, the next will be the Wool Growers' Convention. That's where I want to tell them something about this agricultural program and where it's going to take them." IT was just the week before election. Burton Warwick came into the house, his shoulders sloping with fatigue. For the last three weeks he had been fighting a losing battle —alone. Somehow he had lost his grip upon the people. In two short weeks he had dropped from the two-to-one shot for the senatorial election, to a poor runner-up. During that two weeks he had done some extremely incisive thinking. Never before had he ever considered his own worth as compared with that of someone else. He had always taken it for granted that he was supremely valuable, and that other people were useful only in relationship to his own advancement. Jaded and forlorn, he dragged himself into his own living room, now cheerless and cold at eleven o'clock. He must be prepared for the rally tomorrow night, and he hadn't begun his speech. He had no heart for it. He knew dimly what he wanted to say, but the effort that it took to marshal the material, to dig out the facts and figures, to verify them and recheck them for their accuracy appalled him. Dear Mary... He was beginning to appreciate her genius. What a chump he had been. It had all come too easy for him. For the last two weeks he had felt so sorry for himself that he could have cried. But suddenly, tonight, he felt relieved because he didn't feel sorry 242 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for himself any longer. "You big chump," he murmured half aloud. At about twelve-thirty Mary came in, wrapped to her chin in becoming fur. She was about to pass on to her own room without a word when Burton called to her. "Come and sit here with me awhile," he requested. His voice was lean and thin. When she looked at him she was shocked. He looked old and whipped. "Burton, you are ill," she murmured sympathetically. He nodded. "But not in body." He sat there, his great head down between his shoulders, his cheeks sagged, and his eyes sunk deep in their sockets. For sometime they sat thus. At last he aroused himself. "Mary," he said, "I've been a perfect numbskull. But something has happened to me these last two weeks. I have learned what it is to be beaten. Never before..." He shook his head with a pathetically wry smile. "It isn't good to succeed too easily." She lay back in her chair and watched him. He didn't glance up, merely spoke on, his voice hardly above a whisper. "T'm afraid that I'm going to lose this election. Deserve it, too, I suppose. It's a hard pill, but I'm almost glad that you left me to work out my own campaign." Her face was pulled into a tight little knot. After awhile he said, "I have instructed my lawyer to drop the suit for divorce. I know that you will be terrifically busy until after election; but when it is over, I wonder... I wonder if we couldn't start all over again. I would like to take a little trip... To California for the winter. Would you... Would you like to come with me?" Mary slipped out of the big chair, and forgetting that this was the great Burton Warwick, she curled up on his lap, and putting her arms about him cried on his shoulder. The next morning, as he ate his sausage and eggs, he found beside his plate a neatly typewritten script of his speech for the rally that night.
LOVE never looks for faults, and whenever it discovers them in others it throws over them the mantle of charity and performs the two-fold miracle of making itself more beautiful and the one in whom the fault is found more happy."—Edward H. Emmett.
DON'T be a fault-finding grouch; when you feel like finding fault with somebody or something stop for a moment and think; there is very apt to be something wrong within yourself. Don't permit yourself to show temper, and always remember that when you are right you can afford to keep your temper, and when you are in the wrong you cannot afford to lose it."—J. J. Reynolds.
The Women's Field Army for Control of Cancer
By Mrs. J. L. Gibson
THE National Women's Field Army for the Control of Cancer was organized in 1936 under the slogan "Cancer is Curable. Fight it with Knowledge". Each state has a Commander with local units in counties and cities. The Army conducts an intensive educational campaign which reaches a climax in April of each year. That month has been set aside by Congress as "Cancer Control Month". Through meetings, forums, newspapers, magazines, radio, posters and all other means at its disposal, the Army seeks through education to teach people that cancer in its early stages is curable; to replace fear with facts and superstition with sound information. This is a woman's war for two reasons: Tradition has made it her duty to care for the health of the family and also, because of the large number of cancers of the breast and the uterus, more women than men die from cancer. The Utah division of this Army was organized a little more than two years ago. All women's organizations were invited to participate. We were told that we must do nothing without the advice and the approval of the State Medical Association. Their members have cooperated in every way. They have given generously of their time to attend committee meetings, to speak before various organizations and over the Radio, and to diagnose and treat indigent patients. We have also had wonderful cooperation from the press and the radio. As our slogan implies, we are primarily an educational organization, but we must also be self-supporting. With the assistance of members of the L. D. S. Relief Society, the Parent-Teacher Associations and women's clubs, 400,000 pieces of literature have been distributed in Utah in the past two years. One or more of these organizations has representatives in every corner of our state. Through our literature we urge people to consult their physicians immediately about any persistent lump or thickening, especially about the breast; any irregular bleeding or discharge from any of the body openings; any sore that does not heal, particularly about the tongue, mouth or lips; persistent indigestion, especially when accompanied by a distaste for meat; sudden changes in the form or rate of growth of a mole or wart; that pain is a late symptom and not to wait for it; that most early cancers are curable if treated by a qualified physician, by using X-ray, radium or surgery; that it is very important to visit a physician for an annual physical examination.
In "Civilization Against Cancer" by Dr. C. C. Little, I found what he calls a few simple rules concerning the prevention of cancer.
244 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
He says: "Form and maintain habits of mouth hygiene, wash the mouth, clean the teeth and gums. Remove or correct jagged teeth. Correct all artificial dentures that press, rub or chafe. If smoking irritates your lip or tongue, stop it. * * *
"Discuss with your doctor the advisability of removing warts or moles, especially deeply pigmented ones and those that are rubbed or irritated by clothing or during shaving.
"Keep the skin clean and protected from undue or excessively prolonged exposure to sun and wind.
"Do not abuse your stomach. Avoid extremely hot food, overeating, or any type of food or drink that causes distress.
"Establish and maintain regular habits of emptying the bowels; avoid constipation.
"Avoid tight clothing which rubs or chafes, especially brassieres which do these things.
"If a woman has borne children, she should check with her gynecologist to be sure that any tears or injuries to the womb have been repaired. * * *
"Drink plenty of water to avoid the unnecessary irritating effects of too concentrated urine on both the kidneys and bladder."
Members of the medical profession are reporting that more and more people are coming for physical examinations. Dr. Ogilvie, director of the Wasatch Laboratories, tells us that until recently most of the cancer cases referred to them for biopsies were in such an advanced state that they could not be treated successfully, but that now they are coming early enough that he thinks fifty per cent of them can be cured.
After two years' experience in trying to give a message of hope to cancer victims we learn that it is not enough to simply tell the patient that early cancer is curable. In many instances some kind of financial aid must also be furnished. Many of our best citizens go through life caring for themselves and very often lending a helping hand to a less fortunate neighbor, but when cancer strikes they are in no position to meet such an emergency. As I said earlier, we must be self-supporting and for this purpose conduct a membership drive each April. The money we received in 1937 paid our expenses for 1938. We propose to use that collected in 1938 ($945) as follows:
Literature $400 Commander and vice-commander expenses 150 Nine district captains' expenses 90 Thirty county lieutenants' expenses 150 Part-time secretary 120 Miscellaneous 35
This year we hope to interest more people and collect, in addition to the amount needed for necessary expenses, enough money to start a loan fund so that when we receive an appeal for help from someone, important days may not have to be wasted while we contact county commissioners or welfare boards. Ours is a work that should challenge the interest, the imagination and the enthusiasm of all public spirited men and women.
Spring Tonics
By Dorothy Nell Mair
ONCE again springtime arrives in the Rockies. Mystifying changes occur daily in our mountains. Majestic peaks and rocky ledges, rounded out by deep drifts of winter snow, become sharply pointed and more craggy. As deep ravines and crevices are revealed, shadows shift and change in hue to weave fantastic patterns on canyon walls. Skies become more blue; clouds become whiter. Creeks and rivers swell and race in tumbling foam to the irrigation canals in the valleys. The hillsides are green and beckon to outdoor campers; the fishing is good in the streams. Each day winter's curtain is lifted a bit higher as Nature entices us in subtle ways to take our regular dose of spring tonic, for she knows the only cure for the drowsiness and the inertia we call spring fever.
Spring fever is the weariness that follows the indoor confinement imposed upon us by cold weather. It is the tiredness that comes from too much social activity and too much work as well. We do need a spring tonic, a pick-me-up, to restore our ambitions. Certainly, no objections are raised against the kind Nature proffers, but being slaves to commercial interests we postpone the taking. However, Nature, also being a wise mother, directs us to her liking. Come the warm days when we sit at our desks and yawn, and that midafternoon drowsiness which tortures us. The sound of nesting birds calling one to another outside, and the fragrance of fruit blossoms in the breeze that stirs the papers we are trying to peruse—all are weapons against which we have no defense. Our thoughts stray from operating costs and budgets to camping equipment, to shady places among tall trees, to twisting trails, to crystal lakes. We give up, pack the car, don hiking togs and hie away to the playgrounds where exist the best spring tonics worth taking.
AH, but spring tonics have not always been so easy to take. A few of our old-timers, who were school kids back in the early 1870's will recall the old sage tea remedy— with a shudder, too. In some of our Utah towns (and one in particular) during those colonization days, the beginning of spring signified the time of year when one's blood needed "purifying". The teacher of the little village school that snuggled on the foothills of the mountains did not trust to the pupils in her charge getting this "purifying" at home. She had ideas of her own about that, together with unlimited faith in the preventive and curative qualities of sage tea. Through the sagebrush scouted this dynamic force—the teacher who felt so responsible for the community's health—with a basket on her arm. She gathered the leaves from the brush, returned to the village and searched further for a brewing pot. For want of a better vessel, she appropriated a five-gallon oil can, scoured it, and brewed the sage tea on the school house heating stove.
246 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
As long as the sage tea held out, it was part of the morning ritual for each child to drink a tin cupful before taking his place in the school room. And so it was done with daily wails and sullen smirks and inventive schemes to be absent. If you have at any time tasted the bitterness of this brew, you know what those poor children were in for. The teacher certainly had the welfare of the community at heart, if her methods were not quite sanitary. She owned but one tin cup, and each child took his turn drinking his dose from it, and some of them had to be held by the ears.
Gone are those old sage-tea days, but sagebrush still is part of our spring tonic. Growing in the lowlands and on rolling hills, it affords good rabbit nesting, and where there are rabbits there are hunting and long hikes. It perfumes the air after a warm spring rain. The dry bark and trunks provide wood for our camp fires. It shields the pheasant, the grouse and the quail. Yes, it is still part of the formula.
Unlike the teacher in the little rock school house, Nature cannot take us physically by the ears and compel us to drink our spring tonic from a tin cup. But she does know when we need the solitude that brings comfort and rest to tired bodies and weary minds. With a subtle finesse she bids us lay aside our money-making and "look up unto the mountains, for the mountains bring peace".
APRIL
By Mildred B. Hall
Warm sun slanting down the sky, Fleecy clouds a-drifting; Scent of blossoms floating by, Song of bird a-lifting.
Tulips, yellow, pink and red, Lettuce seed a-bursting; New hat on a saucy head, Youth for love a-thirsting.
HAPPENINGS
By Annie Wells Cannon
APRIL—Nothing makes so deep a wound as "Unkindness where there is no remedy at law".
ELEANOR ROOSEVELT because of her high sense of justice has withdrawn her membership from a popular patriotic society. One wonders if she knew when she became a member of this same patriotic organization that it carried a resolution barring members because of religious affiliations.
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, grandniece of the great suffrage leader, is crusading for suffrage in the District of Columbia.
PRINCESS FRAWZIA of Egypt met her bridegroom for the first time when he came to claim her and take her back to his Persian throne.
OSA JOHNSON, who knows Africa perhaps better than any other living person, declares the plan considered in London of moving Germany's harassed Jews to that country most fantastic.
HORTENSE B. ODLUM, president of Bonwit-Teller, says, "The greatest asset of the business woman is feminine charm and feminine clothes." She evidently would admire the prevailing styles of "Up-Do" hair with all its shining ornaments.
JANE GILES and Rachel Rader, Iowa's oldest twins, age 94, are both recovering from recent falls, having sustained cut hands and broken shoulder blades. Age seems no bar to endurance and fortitude. Hannah O'Connor of Ireland, 111, and Mary Adleman of Poland, 109, who recently died, were both mothers of large families.
KATHRYN LEWIS, distinguished and helpful delegate to the recent Pan-American Peace conference at Lima, Peru, is the daughter and efficient secretary of the great labor leader John L. Lewis.
PHYLLIS BENTLEY, British novelist, expresses admiration for American women—particularly their ability to combine efficiently domestic and public affairs.
MRS. DWIGHT DAVIS and associates of Washington, D. C., in their efforts to awaken art-consciousness at the National Capital, gave a preview of modern pictures one Sunday afternoon. Fashionable Washington dressed in glamorous gowns, silver fox furs and orchids, making the air redolent of tropical climes, came. The pictures were outshone; they only formed a background for life in action with art looking on.
EDNA FERBER'S autobiography "A Peculiar Treasure" is perhaps the most publicized of the new books. The life story of a Jewess, so colorful and successful as Edna Ferber, is particularly apropos at this time.
GEORGETTE HEYER'S "Royal Escape," an historic romance of Charles II, and Sylvia Townsend's "After the Death of Don Juan" are among the late books by women.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
LOUISE YATES ROBISON President AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor KATE M. BARKER Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XXVI APRIL, 1939 No. 4
EDITORIAL
A Record Shall Be Kept
MISTAKES are repeated and repeated not only in the lives of men but in the history of nations. A thoughtful study of the past is potent in enabling the race to avoid mistakes and thus go better forward. If we had to learn everything through our own experience, our lives would be spent mastering the primary principles of living. But through acquaintance with the experiences of others, through heeding the advice and following the instructions, our horizons broaden, mistakes are avoided, and we acquire skill in the art of living. Books are the reservoir for the experiences of men and nations. The wise person searches them for understanding and as a guide in the conduct of his own life.
The Lord has always recognized the necessity of truths being preserved for the guidance of his people and has instructed his people to record their acts whether they be good or evil. Adam was taught to write through inspiration that his counsel and his prophecies might be handed down for the benefit of generations yet unborn. We are told that his children preserved these records and added to them, and thus were the acts of men recorded from the first. When the records were lost or destroyed, God restored them through inspiration and revelation to such men as Moses. When Lehi left Jerusalem, the Lord deemed the history of their fathers of such importance to them that Laban's life was sacrificed lest a "nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief".
A vivid illustration of the value of a recorded history to a nation is contained in the Book of Mormon. Contrast the people of Lehi with the people of Mulek who, fleeing for their lives, escaped to a new land with no records and under the stress of caring for their immediate bodily safety began a new nation without recording its experiences. Nearly 400 years later these two nations met. The record-keeping nation, led by King Mosiah, though few in number compared with the Mulekite nation, was culturally advanced and became the leader of the combined nations; and the Mulekites were brought back from an extremely low state of civilization to one of advancement and culture.
The Book of Mormon, representing as it does a thousand consecutive years of recorded history of one people, shows to a remarkable degree the fact that those people who keep records, study them, and give heed to their lessons are a great and righteous people. But when people either fail to record their acts or when they disregard the experiences of the past and depend upon their own wisdom, they repeat the mistakes of the past and degenerate in direct ratio to their disregard.
The Lord has placed upon us a responsibility to keep records for the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 249
benefit of those who come after. "Behold there shall be a record kept among you." (Doc. & Cov. 21:1.) He has wisely preserved ancient records for our use and profit, that our horizons may be broad, that we may avoid mistakes, that we may live effectively. He has commanded us to study these records "... Study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also study my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is now translating, yea, until you have obtained all which I shall grant unto the children of men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto." (Doc. & Cov. 11:22.)
Recorded life experiences of men and nations, carefully studied and intelligently applied in the solution of our own problems enables us to go beyond a mastery of the primary principles of living to a mastery of the complicated technique of abundant living.
Arbor Day
ARBOR DAY is celebrated throughout the United States and its possessions by the planting of trees. The word arbor comes from the Latin and means tree. It was originated in 1872 at the suggestion of Julius Sterling Morton of Nebraska, an American Journalist and Secretary of Agriculture. Nebraska was called "the treeless state," and it was for the purpose of stimulating tree planting that the State Board of Agriculture designated April 10 as an annual state Arbor Day. The example was emulated by other states until it is now nation wide in its observance.
Henry Van Dyke says: "He that planteth a tree is the servant of God; He provideth a kindness for many generations, And faces that he hath not seen shall bless him."
Arbor Day has come to mean more than tree planting. Shrubbery, plants and seeds of many kinds are planted. It has become a general clean-up and fix-up day. Many persons who might otherwise fail to beautify their surroundings become active in making them sightly through the stimulation of an annual Arbor Day.
Items OF INTEREST
Our Cover
WE are happy this month to publish on our cover excerpts from the 89th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, "The Word of Wisdom." We have done this in the hope that those who have never read, or those who have not read for some time, the word of the Lord in this matter, might be brought to a consciousness of His Wisdom which He gave to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith, February 27, 1833, at Kirtland, Ohio. We are sorry that the space on our cover would not lend itself to use the complete revelation. We have left out some parts of the revelation which may in your opinion be more important than some we have included. In any case, we suggest that you read the 89th Section completely and read again "The Prophets Speak," found on pages 215 and 216 of this magazine.
Pan American Day, April 14th
"The President of the United States, by proclamation, has fixed April 14th of each year as Pan American Day, and the people of the country are called upon "To observe the day with appropriate ceremonies, thereby giving expression to the spirit of continental solidarity and to the sentiments of cordiality and friendly feeling which the government and people of the United States entertain toward the peoples and governments of the other republics of the American continent."
"The day of the Americas, commemorates each year the bonds of friendship uniting the twenty-one republics of the Western Hemisphere. It symbolizes that spirit of mutual helpfulness and cooperation which is the essence of Pan Americanism.
"The Day affords an excellent opportunity to direct attention to the achievements of each Republic and the united action of all in promoting peace, commerce and friendship in the Western Hemisphere."
Material for the use of groups and individuals planning to present programs may be secured without cost by addressing the Pan American Union, Washington, D. C.
Pageant Notice
FREQUENTLY requests come to the office from Societies throughout the Church for plays and pageants. The committee of the General Board having this matter in charge meet the demands wherever possible, but they feel that encouragement should be given to local people to prepare these things for themselves. In your own wards and stakes there are conditions, incidents and historical data which could well be dramatized most effectively. The committee therefore suggests that an effort be made in each community to encourage people of talent to prepare such things of this type as might prove useful for presentation and valuable in the development of embryonic talents.—R. C. I.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 251
A Prayer From Our First Editor
Lula Greene Richards
JUNE 1, 1872, in a room in the house of Lorenzo D. Young, in the Eighteenth Ward, a 23-year-old girl with dark curls and florid cheeks assumed editorial responsibility of the only woman's paper between Boston and the Pacific Coast—The Woman's Exponent. Though she left her editorial position in 1877, her interest in the Relief Society periodicals has been maintained throughout the years, and many rich contributions from the pen of Lula Greene Richards are to be found in the columns of the Exponent and its successor The Relief Society Magazine. April 29, 1939, Sister Richards will reach the ninetieth milestone in life's journey. We are proud to include her latest composition, written for the New Year, 1939, in the April issue of the Magazine—her birthday month.
A Prayer
(Written by request of Mrs. Alberta B. Ferris, visiting at Mesa, Arizona. For New Year, 1939.)
Dear Sister: You ask me to write you a prayer. I pause, but would grant the request. And now, first I pray that our thoughts may unite, And we two be mutually blest.
Our Father in Heaven: Accept of our praise And thanks for Thy merciful care; For guidance and faith and the sacred permit To approach Thee at all times in prayer.
We pray for the just who would uproot all sin, All Truth and Intelligence plant. We ask richest gifts for Thy Prophet and Seer, Our President, Heber J. Grant.
His Counselors also, First, J. Reuben Clark, Second Counselor, D. O. McKay. And for all those who aid Thy great Latter-day work, We humbly and earnestly pray.
These "last days are shortened"—the time is too brief For lengthy, unguarded appeals. May our words be well chosen and pleasing to Thee, As the sure Holy Spirit reveals.
Bless the Missions extending all over the earth, All the world be enlightened—and then— All the worthy be called to Thy glorious Feast. In the dear name of Jesus, Amen.
All In A Day
A PLAY IN ONE ACT, AND TWO SCENES
By Rosannah C. Irvine
RUTH ARMSTRONG, a discontented young wife. HARVEY ARMSTRONG, her husband, a struggling young lawyer. SISTER PORTER, a wise old lady and Relief Society visiting teacher. SISTER BALDWIN, a pleasant, middle-aged woman, also a visiting teacher. SISTER ARMSTRONG, an understanding mother-in-law.
(The names of the characters in this play are chosen at random. If they belong to real people, it is merely a coincidence.)
SCENE I
The curtain rises on the living room which also serves as a dining room in the home of Harvey and RUTH ARMSTRONG. It is breakfast time. A small table is set for two. The room is comfortably furnished but disorderly. Papers, books, and clothing, left out of place the night before, are scattered about. Many of the things in the room are evidently wedding presents, indicating that the Armstrongs are newlyweds. Harvey is seated at the table sipping a glass of tomato juice and reading the newspaper. He is dressed for the office. He becomes impatient and shows it.
Harvey: (calling) Ruth, I'm waiting, and I'm in a hurry.
RUTH: (from kitchen sharply) I'm hurrying as fast as I can.
(Several moments elapse before RUTH makes her appearance. Harvey fidgets, rattles his paper, and shows signs of irritation before she finally comes in. When she enters she has a plate of toast in one hand and a small platter of ham and eggs in the other. She puts them on the table in front of her husband and goes into the kitchen again, returning almost immediately with two glasses of milk, putting one at each place. RUTH is dressed carelessly in a pretty kimono or lounging robe, utterly impractical for housework. She has on a pair of fancy bedroom slippers. Her hair is in curlers, covered by a net. RUTH is very young, pretty and sweet, but she has a fretful frown on her face and a sharp tinge to her voice.)
RUTH: (seating herself) You forgot to take out the garbage again last night.
Harvey: Is it garbage day again? I took it out about yesterday.
RUTH: No, you didn't. Tuesday's garbage day—every Tuesday.
Harvey: I can't ever seem to remember. But I know that like rent day it comes around oftener than any other day. Did you take it out?
RUTH: (indignantly) I did not! What do you think I am?
Harvey: Well, you're the "filler upper."
RUTH: Well, I'm not going to be the "carrier outer" at any rate.
Harvey: (eating and trying to avoid a quarrel) All right, darling, I'll try to remember next time.
RUTH: Aren't you going to ask a blessing?
Harvey: I asked it before you came in. I prayed long and earnestly that I might have a breakfast and not a burnt offering.
RUTH: (angrily and on the verge of tears) I told you before we were married that I didn't know how to cook. You said you didn't care; you wanted me just as I was. You ought to have married one of the Harper girls if you wanted a cook.
Harvey: Oh, skip it, honey. I was only joking. I didn't want a cook. I wanted a companion. I wanted you.
RUTH: If that's your idea of a joke, it's certainly a poor one. And I'm getting tired of hearing about my poor cooking.
Harvey: Well, seriously now, hon, I'm asking in all love and kindness, why don't you learn to cook? Anyone with your brains can learn anything.
RUTH: Yes, if you like it well enough. But I hate cooking and housework. By the way, I had a call yesterday from Mr. Smith. He says I can have my old position back again if I want it. I'd love to take it, Harvey.
Harvey: Nothing doing. I want a companion for a wife, not a stenographer.
RUTH: Well, I'm not a good cook and not a good housekeeper, but I am an "A-1" stenographer. I could hire a girl to do the work and have a good share of my salary left.
Harvey: (firmly) Nothing doing, I said! You gave up that job to be a wife. A wife's place is in the home. No woman can be a good
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 253
business woman and a satisfactory home maker at the same time. When a woman marries, that's her job! Before we were married you said that you'd love keeping our little home, and you didn't ever want any more office work. You change your mind rather frequently.
RUTH: Well, it's the only thing under the sun, moon, and stars that I can change. I ought to have that privilege.
Harvey: (sotto voce) You might try changing your disposition. (He finishes his breakfast, folds his napkin, and gets up from the table. He takes his hat and stands hesitating. RUTH glumly sips her milk and nibbles toast as if unconscious of his presence.)
Harvey: Come on, honey. Can't you give a fellow a goodby kiss? (RUTH grudgingly turns her cheek to him. He kisses her lightly.) Goodby, darling. And don't forget about a job. You have a full-time one right here looking after me. (RUTH remains cross and unfriendly. Harvey feels her antagonism. He pats her shoulder gently.)
Harvey: Cheer up, sweetness. Times are going to brighten up. I'm not always going to be a poor, struggling lawyer. We'll soon be through the starvation period. It won't be long before you can have all the money you want to spend without worrying about having to earn it yourself. (RUTH remains unresponsive. Harvey hesitates a moment, then with a sigh he puts his hat jauntily on his head.) Well, be grouchy if it makes you happy; but you certainly make yourself about the most childishly
254 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
disagreeable person I've ever seen. I don't see what you have to be cross about. You surely don't get any kick out of it yourself, and it is anything but pleasant for other people. And just remember this, young lady, as a partner you're nothing to write home about. (RUTH remains silent. After waiting a moment, HARVEY goes out slamming the door. Ruth attempts to eat but chokes over every bite. She is weeping softly in self-pity. Before she has finished, there is a knock at the door. She goes to the door and opens it. SISTER PORTER and SISTER BALDWIN enter. They are smiling and friendly. RUTH is none too cordial.)
RUTH: Oh, how are you, Sister Porter? How do you do, Sister Baldwin? (She shakes hands with them.) Won't you sit down? (The visitors sit near together. RUTH sits a little way from them.) You see I haven't done my morning work yet (with a deprecatory gesture around the untidy room).
SISTER PORTER: (apologetically) We shouldn't have called so early, my dear, but we are very late with our visiting this month. I was too lame last week to get around, and Sister Baldwin was out of town. You'll excuse this early morning call, won't you?
SISTER BALDWIN: As Relief Society visiting teachers we have an especially interesting and timely message today—
RUTH: (Interrupting) Oh, yes, I know all about your topic. I heard Mother Armstrong talking about it to her partner.
SISTER PORTER: (kindly) Then we do not need to discuss it with you, of course.
RUTH: (shortly) No, I know it off by heart.
SISTER BALDWIN: That's a very good idea. It's a wonderful thing to have in your heart and think about every day. We especially want to invite you to our meeting this afternoon. We are having a particularly good program today. We are inviting all our young women to join our Organization. We want to enroll every woman young and old who is not actively engaged in some other organization. "Every Latter-day Saint woman a member, and every member active," is our aim. We are working to have 100,000 members by 1942.
RUTH: (indifferently) Yes, my mother has told me all about it. But I haven't time to go to Relief Society.
SISTER BALDWIN: It won't be a very long meeting today, and I'm sure you would find it interesting.
RUTH: (firmly) I can't go today. I told my mother I couldn't.
SISTER PORTER: (mildly) Well, my dear, the old women in the Society, like myself, are rapidly passing away. We need the young, active girls to carry on in our place. You young ones are as necessary to the success of the work as we older ones are. You know the old Greek adage, "Old men for counsel and young men for war".
RUTH: Well, I don't think that you need me yet awhile when there are women like you two, and mother Armstrong and my own mother. I'm really not interested in Relief Society. I'm not going to join till I'm an old woman, maybe about thirty-five or forty years old. (Her visitors exchange amused glances. Even SISTER BALDWIN is past forty, and still considers herself a young woman.) But I want to make a donation for your charity fund. (She gets her purse and hands Sister BALDWIN fifty cents.)
SISTER BALDWIN: Thank you.
SISTER PORTER: I hope, my dear, that your heart will be as touched with an interest in the work as it is with generosity toward it. (The visitors shake hands and exeunt.)
RUTH: (with a sigh of relief) Thank goodness that's over! (She throws herself down on the couch and reads the newspaper. She is quite oblivious of her appearance and the untidy room. There is a gentle knock at the door. RUTH doesn't hear. The knock is repeated.) Why does everybody have to come visiting in the morning? Come in. (SISTER ARMSTRONG enters. She is intelligent and sweet.)
RUTH: (rising in embarrassment) Oh, Mother Armstrong, come in. I'm ashamed of this mess, but I've been lazy all morning, and then the Relief Society teachers called, and that hindered me. Here, have this easy chair. (They sit down close together.)
SISTER ARMSTRONG: Yes, I met the teachers. They're sweet women, aren't they? Ruth dear, I came to see if you wouldn't like to go to Relief Society meeting with me today.
RUTH: (laughing, her natural sweetness overcoming her ill temper) Say, what is this, a campaign? You and mother, and Sister Porter and Sister Baldwin have all been after
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 255
me. I'm too young. I'm not quite in the old ladies' class yet. Oh, I don't mean any offense, Mother Armstrong.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: I'm sure you don't, dear. I understand. Any woman over thirty seems old to you. (They both laugh.) There are many young girls joining the Society now, some even as young as you.
RUTH: Well, they must be hard up for something to do.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: As a matter of fact, they are all busy girls; but they find Relief Society a pleasure and a benefit.
RUTH: I can't imagine such a thing. (Then more courteously) You're wasting your time, Mother Armstrong, in trying to sell Relief Society to me. Mother has been at me ever since I was married. I'm just not interested.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: I think that you would be today. It's Sister Porter's birthday. She doesn't know it, but we are going to pay a lovely tribute to her, besides the program. Your mother is going to present her with a lovely bouquet and give a little talk of presentation. I thought you might sing for us—one of Sister Porter's favorite hymns. It would please your mother and give us all a great deal of pleasure.
RUTH: (affectionately) You're sweet, Mother Armstrong, but I couldn't possibly go today. I'm going to wash as soon as I get my work done.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: Harvey stopped in for a minute on his way to the office this morning. He seemed quite worried about you. He
256 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
asked me if I didn't know of a girl who could come in once in a while and help you. You've got a mighty good husband, Ruth, if he is my son.
RUTH: Being your son is what makes him so good, Mother.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: That's sweet of you, even if I don't deserve it. He's very much in love with you, my dear.
RUTH: Well, he ought to be. My mother thinks I'm an awfully nice girl.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: (laughing) I think we form rather a complete admiration association. We all like each other and are happy in our relationship.
RUTH: Mother, I have a chance to work for Mr. Smith again. Harvey won't hear of it, but don't you think I ought to? I try to be a good wife, but I'm a lot better stenographer than housekeeper, and my check would help out a lot right now. You see, when we were married I was earning more than Harvey is making. And two people can't live as cheaply as one, no matter what folks say. I used to spend more on myself than we have now for everything.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: I know it's hard on you, Ruth. But Harvey is working up a business, and that takes time. Marriage means cooperation and sacrifice. Harvey had more to spend on himself, too, before you were married. I think it would be a mistake for you to go back to Smith's. It would undermine Harvey in his business. It would give people the idea perhaps that he couldn't earn enough to keep you—that he was not a good lawyer. Be a good team mate, dear, and do your part by being a good home maker. Now, how about going to meeting with me today?
RUTH: (laughing and relenting under the kindness of her mother-in-law) I see where Harvey gets his "go-get-it-iveness". Yes, I'll go if I can rush through my work.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: I think that I can get Aggie to come over and do your washing. She has tomorrow free. She's a good worker, and she needs the work.
RUTH: That would be grand, if you think we ought to afford it. I hate washing and ironing next to cooking, and I hate cooking next to dish washing, and I hate dish washing next to sweeping and dusting and bed making, and, (With a comprehensive gesture around the room) most of all I think I hate tidying up a room and keeping things in order. Somehow things just won't stay put. (Then seriously) I do want to be a good wife, but you see I'd never done much housework until I was married, and Harvey's the first husband I've ever had. Mother, it's surprising how much time anyone can spend on a husband. In terms of time they're very expensive luxuries.
SISTER ARMSTRONG: (laughing) Every woman passes through that phase of marriage. When you have a large family of small children you'll look back on these days as a time of child's play. I think it would be all right to have Aggie come in once a week to help you with the heavy work. You can go to fewer movies every month or cut down on your gasoline, perhaps. There are many ways of saving. It's a good thing to save on unnecessary things in order to take care of the essentials. It's astonishing how many little things you can do without, and how much pleasure you can get out of seeing your bank account grow if you make a game of it instead of considering it a hardship. But I didn't come here to lecture you on economy. Can you be ready to go to meeting at one-thirty? I'll call for you then.
RUTH: (kissing her impulsively) You're a darling, and I'll be ready. What would you like me to sing?
SISTER ARMSTRONG: I believe Sister Porter's favorite song is—(they decide on a suitable song.) I must rush home now. Goodby, dear. (Exit.)
RUTH: Goodby, Mother dear. (She begins briskly to do her work, as the curtain falls.)
SCENE II
The same room, but now it is orderly and attractive. The table is daintily set for dinner. RUTH is well dressed and well groomed. She has a dainty apron over her pretty dress. She moves about smiling and singing. She puts Harvey's house coat on his easy chair, a pair of slippers and a leg rest near by. A bouquet of flowers is on the table. The entire atmosphere of the place is changed. There is a slight noise at the door. RUTH goes to it as Harvey enters.
RUTH: (smiling and with affectionate concern) Hello, darling. How are you tonight?
Harvey: (hesitating—surprised) Why—hello—
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 257
RUTH: (sweetly) Let me take your coat and hat, dear. Your house coat and slippers are right there at your chair.
Harvey: (bewildered) Thanks—darling—I—
RUTH: Have you had a good day?
Harvey: (astonished) Why—yes—fine—that is—pretty good—but (anxiously) are you all right, dear?
RUTH: (cheerfully) Never better! (She helps him off with his coat, takes his arm and walks with him to his chair. Harvey is rather bewildered. A great deal of the humor and interest in this scene depends on Harvey's acting.) Now you sit there and read, darling, while I serve the dinner. It's all ready except the meat, and it's going to be good tonight, and I do mean good! I made a lovely apple pie, and I have a scrumptious steak and a—
Harvey: (really alarmed) Ruth, are you sure you feel all right?
RUTH: Yes, dear, I'm fine.
Harvey: Your face is flushed. Are you feverish—or something?
RUTH: Not a fraction of a degree. My face is red because I've been working over a hot stove.
Harvey: (hesitating, but still anxious) Well, you seem different—somehow. As if you were happy—or something.
RUTH: (laughing) Of course I'm happy. Why shouldn't I be? Didn't I marry the best man in the world?
Harvey: Why, of course. Everybody knows that. But lately you haven't seemed to think so. You and Mother agreed on that before we were married.
RUTH: Yes, and we discussed it again
258 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
today and reached the same decision.
Harvey: (seriously) You and Mother ought to get together often. But, dearest, I can't understand. You're so different—so pepped up—and so sweet—somehow. What's happened to you today?
RUTH: I can't tell you now. Dinner's all ready except broiling the steak.
Harvey: (sternly) You come right here, woman, and sit down. Obedience is better than beefsteak. (RUTH meekly sits down beside him. Harvey puts his arm around her. She snuggles against him. He gives a sigh of satisfaction.) Ahah-ah! This is like old times. Now tell me what's happened?
RUTH: I went to Relief Society.
Harvey: You what?
RUTH: I went to Relief Society meeting today.
Harvey: That old ladies' club? That couldn't make you happy. What's the joke?
RUTH: (indignantly) It isn't an old ladies' club! And it's no joke. I enjoyed myself.
Harvey: I'll bet you did!
RUTH: I did, really, Harvey. It was nice. I sang for them.
Harvey: How come? Did you sing them to sleep? Lullabies?
RUTH: Harvey, behave yourself! They had a wonderful meeting. It was partly in honor of dear old Sister Porter.
Harvey: But how did they happen to rope you into going?
RUTH: Lots of young women belong. Peg and Amy Hutchins are both members; and Norma Alston's the chorister. She's not much older than I am.
Harvey: Well, what do you know about that! Did you sew carpet tags or stitch quilts? That's all they do, isn't it?
RUTH: Harvey! Shame on you! You know better than that. Your mother has been a Relief Society worker all her life. You know perfectly well the good they do in carrying comfort and relief and happiness to people. And then besides that they have lessons and socials. You learn a lot of things—how to sew and cook; you get new recipes and patterns and new ideas about lots of things, and then they have a good time, too.
Harvey: Well, it must be something. (Pause. Then seriously) How often do they meet?
RUTH: You ought to know that, too. They meet every week, on Tuesday afternoon. Garbage day, you know. That might help you to remember.
Harvey: (thoughtfully and with deep affection) Dearest, how would you—I mean—wouldn't you like to join the Society?
RUTH: (laughing) They invited me to join today, and I'm going to.
Harvey: (with a deep and happy sigh) Oh, darling, that's great! I'm so glad! I do want you to be happy! (They beam fondly at each other as the curtain falls.)
The Shining Heart
By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHARACTER DESCRIPTION AND RESUME—2ND INSTALLMENT
In the moldy decay of the Carey family mansion on Puget Sound lives "MISS BRILL" CAREY, spinster of 55, who once had wealth but now earns a meager living as a seamstress for herself and her lovely niece, red-haired NELL CAREY, who longs to be an artist, but lacks the money to study, and so has drifted into an engagement with FRED NAGLE, successful, unromantic young chicken farmer, whose bank account is dearer to him than is Nell. He strenuously opposes Nell's artistic ambitions. Miss Brill humbles her Carey pride to ask her father's old friend, Philander Maddox, to give Nell a job in San Francisco, hoping the girl will forget Fred in her zeal for study. Miss Brill is convinced Nell does not love Fred. The old lady walks several miles in the rain to get some sewing, overdoes, and is found on the road in a dazed condition by Nell and Fred, who are returning from a movie. Nell's joy over the new job is unbounded, but that night Miss Brill has a stroke that halts the plans for art study. Nell is mystified by her aunt's mutterings about a "shining heart". Fred openly hopes Miss Brill's illness will hasten his marriage to Nell. But the girl, unwilling to give up the career so easily, asks him to wait, knowing the news of the marriage she hoped to avert will upset the sick woman. Fred grudgingly agrees to wait until the end of summer, but Nell has secretly determined that she alone will bear the burden of Miss Brill.
CHAPTER THREE
At the sound of voices Nell ducked hurriedly into a thicket of dogwood. Fred, there in the Maddox' poultry yard talking with the man who cared for Mrs. Maddox' prize chickens, she saw, as the two men crossed the grounds to the stables. Not until they had gone in did Nell come out of hiding. She did not want Fred to know she was definitely giving up San Francisco—yet. Later, of course. It did not occur to the girl that all her thoughts for Fred were built around that "later".
The Maddoxes were not on the terrace this evening. There was too much wind and chill in the air from last night's showers. Nell rang timidly, and was told to go into the library. She was almost afraid as she stepped over the thick-piled Oriental rugs of the big hall to the open door of the library. Old Philander was dozing by an open fire, his white head just showing above the enormous puffy back of a red leather chair. Nell sat down on the edge of another such chair and watched the old man blink his hard, blue eyes awake. He looked at her with the round stare of an infant.
"Hello, hello. Who are you?" he barked abruptly. Nell jumped. "I'm—I'm Nell Carey, Miss Brilliant's niece," she stuttered. He was the first millionaire she had ever seen in the flesh, and a fairly startling one he was. Mr. Maddox grunted and stared at her. Suddenly he gave a cackling laugh. "Nellis Adair Carey! If that isn't just like a balmy old maid!"
"I just came to tell you," Nell said stiffly, "that I won't be able to accept that job offered me yesterday. Aunt Brill had a stroke last night."
"What job?"
"The one you offered me in San Francisco. You told Aunt Brill about it," Nell answered precisely.
The old man's pink skin fascinated
260 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
her; it was so babyish beside his upstanding white hair. He stared at her again. "A stroke?" Then he laughed. "At her age? Young lady, I'll be eighty-six next birthday, and I've never had a stroke in my life." He slapped his knee and chuckled to himself. Then he looked intently at Nell. She sat quietly under his scrutiny, for she realized now that Philander Maddox was indeed old. For all his brilliant career, for all his money, he was sinking gently down into a vague, unremembering, selfish childishness, though he thought himself still so powerful.
"You're a pretty girl. A pretty girl like you can always have a job in my buildings. You've nice manners, too. Here, I'll give you a note." He had completely forgotten the one yesterday. He fumbled in a drawer of the small table beside him and found paper and pen. He wrote a letter to his superintendent that was surprisingly clear and businesslike, telling him that Nell was to have a job with him. Nell accepted the note and thanked the old man for it. It was no use trying to explain again. Besides, the note might be useful some day.
Mr. Maddox looked curiously at the girl again. "Where did she get you?" he asked abruptly. Nell had risen from her chair. She sat down again in her surprise. "Whom do you mean?"
"Old Brilliant. She did a good job when she picked you up," he said. "Pretty as an almond blossom, and I'll bet you're smart, too."
"I'm Aunt Brill's brother's daughter," Nell explained. "He died before my mother did. She died when I was born."
Old Philander threw back his head and roared. "She's a good picker I say." Then he sat up. "Man and boy," he said, wiggling a finger at the girl, "I've known Tom Carey and all his family after him. I was there when he died, and I'll swear he never had chick nor child but the girl, Brilliant."
Nell wondered if she had heard him aright. She was dizzily sick. Behind her the buttery voice of Phoebe Maddox sounded, as she came noiselessly in on the thick carpets. "Why, Father, what are you saying?" She whispered to the girl, "Don't pay any attention to him, Nell. He's getting so old he doesn't remember." Aloud she said, "It's time for your warm milk, Father."
But Nell had paid attention, and so, it appeared, had the woman she encountered in the doorway as she ran blindly to the hall. A tall woman, this, with enormous, disturbed, gray eyes, and perfectly white hair framing her youngish, beautiful face. "Oh," gasped Nell, "I'm so sorry!"
The woman's face was rigid, frozen with a sudden fear. She stood stock still and looked at Nell. "Why Sally! Sally Delavan, how nice of you to come way out here," cried Mrs. Maddox, her tone unemotional, soft. Nell said again, "I'm sorry," and rushed to the front door.
"Who," she heard the white-haired woman say sharply to Phoebe Maddox, "is that girl?"
SHE was not Miss Brill's niece! She had old Philander's word for it that there had been no Carey son. He hadn't lied. He was old and queer, but his mind was still sharp. He still remembered—things of long ago. Nell stumbled along the road unseeingly until a warning toot from a car restored her alertness. Since the Carey house was the only one at this end of the Cove road, it had come from there. Not the doctor's car, nor Fred's, this small black roadster. Then she let the matter of the car slip from her mind. She remembered only old Phil's chuckling "she did a good job when she picked you up". Just as if she had been something cheap from a bargain counter!
But bitter as this new knowledge was, it made things clearer. Really, there had never been anything definite about the supposed parents—no pictures, never any souvenirs. She remembered Miss Brill's evasive, "Don't ask me, child," to early questions. Finally, the subject was dropped. If Nell supposed anything, she no doubt thought her aunt's loss had been too painful to discuss, and had not cared much. Miss Brill had been all the family she needed.
She remembered when she had been scarcely old enough to toddle, following in the wake of Miss Brill's long calico skirts through the raspberry patch, into the thickets of black caps that fringed the wooded summer camp grounds to the north of the gray house. Of filling her small pail with the low berries, staining her little fingers with their dark juice! At the end of the berry season, when the last jar of jam had been made and sold, a large, gorgeous doll had come mysteriously. "From Fredericks," Miss Brill had said
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 261
proudly, naming the magic department store as she placed the doll in the little girl's arms. Bought with the hard-earned berry money, Nell knew now. Tears stung her eyes. She brushed impatiently through the long grass beside the road. And there had never even been the claim of kinship to such gifts.
There was the time Miss Brill had sewed until morning on somebody's dress so Nell might have the money to take a boat excursion to Victoria with her class. And Nell's graduation dress, that delicate thing of many ruffles and frosty lace, that the tall, aging woman had bought and made herself! One of Tom Carey's Chinese chests had disappeared just before the advent of the dress. Miss Brill had been evasive about it, and Nell had taken the sacrifice lightly. Carey chests for Carey graduates' finery, she would have thought, if she had thought at all. And now she was not a Carey. A waif without any rights—that was what old Mr. Maddox had meant.
"I'll make it up to her," Nell thought yearningly, as she opened the kitchen door. "I don't know where, or why, she got me, but she's been wonderful about it." Even giving up San Francisco was not too much, now.
THE house was dark but for the flicker through the mica of the stove door. Mary Kelly whispered tensely out of the gloom, "I'm glad you've come, Nell. Somebody's been prowling around. I've been in a fever for fear your aunt'd hear him. He looked in the Alaska house windows, walked all around this place, poking around. I didn't dare light a lamp."
262 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The man in the black roadster! Nell said, "Didn't he knock?"
"Of course not, with the lights out. The idea! Now you go about and see that every single window in this big gloomy pile is locked tight, or I won't be able to sleep a wink."
Nell lighted a lamp at once. "Oh, nonsense, Mrs. Kelly. There's nothing here anyone would want." And she thought immediately of the precious little hoard in the chest upstairs. That anyone might be interested in the big, closed rooms full of carved walnut, old satiny silver, and the intricate glassware of days gone by did not occur to the girl. She took a lamp and mounted the stairs in the waterfront side of the tall house, examining window and door catches faithfully, even to the third story. When she reached the door to the steep stairway that led to the cupola, she opened it and went up. Night was over the land, but it was still light in the watery west.
Nell took Grandpa Carey's sea glass down from the little shelf above one of the eight windows that sided the little tower room and looked out over the Sound to the wide Straits of Juan de Fuca. She rolled the name slowly off her tongue, aloud. It had an adventurous, foreign lilt to it that stirred her blood. The wide waters merging into the sky always brought to her mind a drift of lovely words from a poem, "Ulysses," a picture of that hardy old soul's longing to fight again the pounding waves in his stout ship. "To seek, to find, and not to yield." That was a stirring thought! It lifted your head, somehow, and made you brave inside. You didn't shrink quite so much when you heard in memory old Phil's high voice, "She did a good job when she picked you up". Up from where? It would come out sometime, somehow. The thing now was to care for Aunt Brill as best she could—even if she had to let Fred Nagle help her.
(To be continued)
THE CRUCIFIXION
By Christie Lund
They nailed his stainless hands upon a cross Against His sky, His heaven that soon must weep At sight of slow and costly drops of blood From Him, the Christ, whose sorrow was so deep That man cannot conceive of it. They quarreled And bartered for His robe that many times before Had healed those who had stooped to touch it, those Who wept about Him now.... The maimed, the poor. They suffered Him to die with thieves; yet He Forgave them, and forgave us all that we Might some day dwell with Him within that Heaven In peace and love for all eternity. Have You A Hobby? By Beatrice E. Linford N this busy, madly rushing world, do you still find that you have hours of leisure time on your hands, hours in which you seem utterly lost wishing for something interesting to do, hours that might easily be converted into pleasure and profit if one knew just how to use them? To a great many people the days are not long enough to execute the tasks required of them; yet there are also many who have endless, lonely, uninteresting hours on their hands. We hear a great deal about hobbies. Have you a hobby? I asked this question of a particular group of adults not long ago. They all answered, "No, we have no such a thing as a hobby." Upon closer questioning, however, it was discovered that several of them had hobbies and were blissfully unaware of the fact. One woman, for instance, loved to make quilts, and another had a beautiful flower garden. - Just what is a hobby? To analyze it, I would say a hobby is something that we fancy, choose, and pursue at will, something we particularly enjoy doing, something we may do at will or discard at will. That perhaps is the reason hobbies are so fascinating. Some people have more than one hobby, thus satisfying their changeable moods and momentary interests. Choosing a hobby is an entirely individual problem; no other person may choose your hobby for you. It must be something you love to do, something that will bring keen pleasure and delight. The types and kinds of hobbies are as varied as the types and kinds of individuals. So numerous are they that it would be impossible to enumerate them all in one short article. Hobbies may be separated into four groups: The first group is collecting, which seems to be the most common and widely pursued by hobby seekers. One may collect anything from bugs to bedsteads. I know a person who collects elephants—no, not real, live flesh and blood elephants, but those carved from wood, ivory, or blown from glass. She has them in all conceivable sizes and colors. Many people collect antiques which is a very interesting hobby, especially if the objects sought happen to be treasures of some dearly beloved ancestor or famous person. One may collect vases, rare prints, etchings, paintings, dolls, stamps, photographs, clippings, poetry, autographs, books or butterflies, according to his own fancy. The second group is creative hobbies. To me this is the most interesting of all the groups. To those who paint a picture, model a bust from clay, write a poem or a book comes the joy of creation, which is the most satisfying joy one can experience. In this group are placed such things as writing, painting, gardening, building, designing, flower arranging, basket making, copper hammering, leather tooling and wood carving. Of a little different type are: keeping a diary or family history, sculpturing, clay modeling, block printing, embroidering, sewing, 264 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE quilting, and recipe creating. It is quite impossible to name all the interesting and even unexplored fields for the creative person. Just for a day, pause and take notice of your neighbors. Show me the one who is interested in really doing something, and I will show you a happy person. "But I cannot do any of those things. I can't paint a picture or write a poem," I hear you say. How many individuals have thought the same thing; and, of course, if that is what they think, they naturally can't do things. But on the other hand, if they think they can, of course they will be able to. A third group is hobbies for acquiring knowledge. Of course, we all continue learning day after day, year after year, as a natural result of our experience. However, there are certain fields of study to which we become attached, so fascinating are they to us that we wish to learn all there is to know on the subject, thus we take up our hobby of acquiring knowledge. Some of the studies man finds interesting are: history, art, architecture, aeronautics, economics, astronomy, botany, minerology, genealogy, entomology, languages, mathematics, meteorology, ornithology, zoology, music, psychology, physics, paleontology, and all the other ologies that are so very fascinating to certain individuals. Indeed, civilization owes untold debts to those who have followed one or more of these fields. Of learning to the point where they themselves have contributed some great truth to the field of modern thought and science. To the fourth group is attached the name hobbies of action. Many persons take a greater delight in physical activity, in taking an active part in things, than in either studying, creating or collecting. In this group we find such interesting activities as taking part in athletic contests or carnivals, participating in pageants, celebrations, fairs, dancing, entertaining, helping with bazaars and festivals, and participating in outings and camping trips. Some who are talented enjoy taking part in dramas, public speaking, or playing in vaudeville. Some people take active interest in pets, such as dogs, birds, bees, horses, rabbits, pigeons, or fur-bearing animals, such as mink, raccoon or fox. Among hobbies of action we find games such as baseball, basketball, cycling, boxing, golf, tennis, coasting, skiing, skating, swimming, hunting, fishing, horseshoe pitching, canoeing and many others. In these four groups I have attempted to give a small idea of how great the possibilities are for those seeking something for leisure hours. S the world advances in scientific knowledge, education, and mechanical ability, men and women are finding themselves with more and more leisure time at their disposal. This condition is increasing rather than decreasing. Now is the time to find out our likes and dislikes, and attach ourselves to some interesting hobby. More often than not, hobbies that are at first taken up with the sole idea of pleasure or pastime turn out to be an individual's life occupation. Thus we have a person making a livelihood by doing the job he really enjoys, and how very much easier it is to accomplish big things when doing what we really want to do than when spending our days plugging endlessly away at some monotonous job not so much to our liking. I am intimately acquainted with a man who as a small boy loved to whittle with his pocket knife making such a litter on the kitchen floor that the immaculate mother had him sit in the huge, old-fashioned woodbox behind the stove to save sweeping the shavings. As he grew, he continued with this hobby of his boyhood, learning all he could of woods, of methods used in building, cutting, carving and glueing. His hobby turned out to be his occupation in life, and for more than thirty years he has been teaching woodwork in the schools. He still loves to make lamps, magazine stands, tables, book ends, candle sticks and all sorts of gifts for his family and friends. I have a neighbor who enjoys flowers and very modestly began growing a few bulbs and shrubs. She now lives entirely surrounded by a beautiful garden of all varieties and types of flowers, blossoming from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL 265 early spring until late autumn. She has developed a small business selling bulbs and blossoms. But the greatest pleasure that comes to her is through the flowers she bestows upon the sick, the lonely and sad. She keeps her church continually supplied with lovely bouquets the year around. I know another person who paints in his spare time, another who makes delicious candies, another who raises pure-bred dogs, one who keeps a most interesting family history, and still another who is a genius with her apparently magic needle. Day by day I see pleasure derived from the pursuit of interesting hobbies. I believe that this individual hobby idea is bound to take care of many of the nation's problems in the immediate future. Hundreds of thousands of our citizenry have been thrown out of jobs in recent years, others have been forced to change from one job to another. Now we are living in a period of readjustment, struggling in every conceivable manner to obtain a sensible balance again. Let us adopt the slogan, "A hobby for everyone". TRUTH TRUTH never dies. The ages come and go; The mountains wear away; the seas retire; Destruction lays earth's mighty cities low; And empires, states and dynasties expire; But caught and handed onward by the wise, Truth never dies! (Courtesy, "The Union Signal') The Body's Need For Vitamins By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe Home Economics Department—University of Utah HERE is no chapter in the field of nutrition so dramatic as the one dealing with the subject of vitamins. The science of nutrition met many difficulties in its development. For years the chemist could not make a complete analysis of foods because of imperfect methods and apparatus. Finally in 1906 a diet was worked out by the chemist which was thought to be complete in every respect. This diet was made up of pure protein, fat, carbohydrates and the essential minerals and was fed to experimental animals. They not only did not grow but soon sickened and died. The addition of a small amount of whole milk to this diet resulted in normal growth and development. What was there in whole milk that made such a dramatic change? Zealous research of many earnest workers over a period of years gave the answer to this question. This experimentation resulted in the knowledge that there are a number of important organic substances found naturally in foods that are essential to life and growth. These substances are now known to be the vitamins. In 1913 it was determined by a number of our nutrition research workers that there were two general characteristics of these unknown vital substances: One was that certain of these substances were soluble in fat and others were soluble in water; hence, they were called by Dr. McCollum "fat soluble A" and "water soluble B". Another research worker, Dr. Funk, called them vitamines A and B. Since more has been learned concerning these substances, the names have been changed to "vitamins". Methods of Investigation There have been two methods of approach to the study of the vitamins, the chemical and the biological. The latter is the older method and served to show the effects of the presence or the absence of these naturally occurring vitamins in our foods when fed to experimental animals. In 1913 McCollum, Davis, Osborne and Mendel, in experiments made independently and at about the same time, found that white albino rats fed on a diet containing all the known nutrients would grow and thrive when butter was in the diet, but when lard was substituted as the only source of fat they would cease growing and become sick and soon die. Many other fats were used in numerous experiments, and it was found that the fat in butter, egg yolk, fish-liver oils, in thin, green leafy vegetables and the yellow fruits and vegetables and the germ of cereals either contained these fat soluble vitamins or substances that are changed into vitamins in the animal body. Most of the vegetable and commercial oils resemble lard in their nutritive value. Chemical Investigation Chemical research has now established the identity of six vitamins. Others are being investigated. It has been determined that no single chemical description applies to the vitamins as a group. Each vitamin is a distinct chemical substance. In regard to their functions in nuttition, they may be grouped as a single class of nutrients. As a group they have a regulatory action on the utilization of foodstuffs and in the control of body functions. But each vitamin has specific values. Research has determined that most of our vitamin values are formed by Nature in our foodstuffs. We have always known that we eat to live, but we are fast learning that what we eat has an important bearing upon how long we shall live and the degree of health we shall enjoy. The Fat Soluble Vitamin Vitamin A is one of the most interesting and one of the first vitamins to be discovered. The experiment cited above called attention to the fact that something soluble in the fat of milk was necessary to the life of the experimental animals. With butter in the diet, the animals grew normally; with lard as the sole source of fat, they sickened and died. In due time all of the important food fats were worked with and their vitamin A value determined. The original source of vitamin A is built up by Nature in certain growing plants and is called carotene. When foods containing carotene are eaten they are changed into vitamin A. Certain foods of animal origin such as milk fat and egg fat contain both vitamin A and carotene, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL 267 latter being changed into vitamin A when eaten. Carotene is of a distinctly yellow color, while vitamin A is colorless. All green vegetables contain carotene, but the yellow color is covered up with the green color of the chlorophyll. Hence any colored vegetable, cereal or fruit—red, yellow, or green—is a good source of vitamin A. Vitamin A Values in Foods Since carotene is the chief source of vitamin A, we look to the colored vegetables and fruits and to the milk fat and its products, whole milk or cream cheese, eggs and fish oils as our best food sources. The carotene content of a plant increases up to maturity. One must remember that the yellow color may be hidden by the green color of the chlorophyll. - When we eat these colored foods, our bodies convert the yellow carotene into the colorless vitamin A. Cows and chickens feed upon green grass, hay and other forage crops, thus making use of food sources of vitamin A that man cannot use. This vitamin value is passed on for human use in the form of milk and eggs. Measurement of Vitamin A Values Vitamin A values of foods are now measured in units in two different types of experiments: first, by feed-. Ing known quantities of carotene or foodstuffs containing vitamin A to experimental animals and determining the rate of growth; second, by feeding known quantities of vitamin A in its synthetic form and noting the rate of growth. The chemist now knows the chemical nature of vitamin A and can synthesize it in his laboratory. The comparative val- 268 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ues of vitamin A in different foods are now given to us in what is known as International Units. The following partial list of vitamin A food sources are submitted as a guide in building dietaries. THE VITAMIN VALUES OF FOODS The Average Vitamin Unitage per 100 Grams of Foodstuff. Vitamin A values are given in International Units. 100 gms. Equals 3.6 ounces. | Vitamin Food | Apples go Apricots, fresh 7,500 Apricots, dried 13,700 Asparagus, green 800 Avocado 700 Banana 300 Beef, lean 100 Blackberry 300 Bread, whole wheat 100 Broccoli 700 Brussels Sprouts 420 Butter 2,250 Cantaloupe — 450 Carrots 4,200 Chard 25,000 Cheese, Cheddar 3,750 Cherries, Royal Anne 630 Cod Liver Oil. U. S. P. 60,000 Cornmeal, yellow 800 Cornmeal, white fo) Cream, 20 per cent 1,050 Dandelions 30,000 Eggs 2,500 Egg yolk 5,000 Escarole 30,000 Kale 36,000 Kidney, Beef 800 Kidney, Veal 1,100 Kidney, Mutton 1,100 Lettuce, green 6,000 Lettuce, bleached 200 Liver, Beef 13,000 Meat, Average 25 Milk, dried, whole 2,400 Milk, evaporated 680 *"Avitaminosis" by Eddy and Daldorf. (Revised March, 1938) | Vitamin Food | A Milk, condensed 680 Milk, malted 6,140 Olives, ripe 350 Parsley 70,000 Peaches, yellow 1,400 ° Peaches, dried, yellow 1,200 Peas, green 1,000 Peas, dried 1,750 Peppers, green 1,300 Peppers, red 7,780 Potato, sweet 3,600 Potato, white 56 Salmon 500 Squash, Hubbard 7,000 Tomatoes, green 1,100 Tomatoes, ripe 1,100 Tomato juice goo Turnip greens 7,500 Yeast, Fleischmann 3,200 Vitamin A Is Essential to Growth Vitamin A is essential for the growth of the young and for the maintenance of the health of adults. There is no period in life when this vitamin is not needed by the body. It plays a very important part not only in the growth and development of the body but also in the efficient regulation of the body processes at all ages. When the intake of vitamin A is insufficient in experimental animals, growth ceases, the hair becomes rough and shaggy, the characteristic eye trouble develops, respiratory diseases are apt to occur and a general weakened condition of the body results. Lack of Vitamin A Tends to Cause Eye Infection Susceptibility to eye infection is one of the most outstanding characteristics of vitamin A deficiency. The eyes become dry as the natural secretions fail. Such fluids naturally Spinach 21,000 keep the eyes clean by washing out bacteria and other foreign particles. The eyelids swell, become sticky and sore and the membrane becomes inflamed. If this disease progresses far enough, blindness results. This condition is found among children much more frequently than among adults. During the World War the poorer children in Holland suffered this eye trouble due to vitamin A poor dietaries. When whole milk was introduced into their diet, the trouble cleared up. Lack of Vitamin A Tends to Cause Respiratory Diseases Respiratory diseases are much more frequent on vitamin A deficient dietaries. The cellular structure of the respiratory (bronchial tubes and lungs) and alimentary (stomach and intestines) tracts become so weakened that infection readily attacks them. Again the loss of the natural secretions which tend to cleanse such tissue, makes it possible for germs to attack them and cause colds, sinus trouble, ear infections and bronchial trouble. While such deficiency diseases are much more readily observed in experimental animals, the same effects are possible in the human body but in a less spectacular manner. It is due to this fact that any dietary deficiency in human nutrition is so serious. The effects are so slow and so insidious and are usually not accompanied by pain, so that serious damage is done before one recognizes the evil. The difference in the life span of the experimental animal, usually the white albino rat, and the human being is great, one day in the life of the rat RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 269 being equal to one month in the life of a human being. Chemical Nature of Vitamin A Vitamin A and Carotene are organic substances-soluble in fat. 'The chemist now knows the composition of these two substances and is equipped to test their comparative values in food. Such chemical tests will hasten the development of our knowledge of nutrition. Vitamin A is insoluble in water, so that we do not lose any of this nutrient in cooking processes. Vitamin A is not destroyed by heat up to the boiling temperature of water, nor by the pressure, cooker, unless the pressure is exceedingly high and the cooking is extended over a long period of time, a condition seldom necessary in the ordinary cooking processes. The canning of food does not destroy its vitamin A value. If vegetables are stored for a period of several months, they lose considerable of their vitamin A value due to the oxidation of the air. Rancidity in fats destroy the vitamin A value. How Much Vitamin A Does the Body Need? Intensive research is in progress in an attempt to determine the quantities of vitamin A, measured in units, required daily by the growing child and the adult. No definite standards are yet available, but Mrs. Rose and her co-workers have suggested that 100 units per 100 calories of food for the average adult and 200 units for 100 calories for the child would be a good guide. The following table gives the best available daily caloric requirement for children. 270 APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FOOD ALLOWANCES FOR CHILDREN OF AVERAGE WEIGHT Age Calories Per Day Years Boys Girls 1 900-1200 800-1200 2 1100-1300 1000-1250 3 1100-1400 1050-1350 4 1200-1500 1150-1450 5 1300-1600 1200-1500 6 1500-1900 1450-1800 7 1600-2100 1500-1900 8 1700-2300 1600-2200 9 1900-2500 1800-2500 10 2100-2700 1900-2600 11 2100-2800 2000-2800 12 2300-3000 2100-3000 13 2500-3500 2300-3400 15 2700-4000 2400-2800 16 2700-4000 2250-2800 17 2800-4000 2250-2800 From this table one can easily determine the vitamin A requirement by dividing the caloric requirement for children by 100 and multiplying the answer by 200, the standard units for 100 calories. Example: A boy 6 years of age requires 1500 calories— 1500+ 10015 15 X 200=3,000 vitamin A nits Tequired daily. An adult will on an average require Based on Gellett's Food Allowance for Healthy Children and Rose's Laboratory Handbook for Dietetics. 2500 to 3000 calories and 2500 to 3000 vitamin A units per day. By using the table of vitamin A food values one can plan a diet that will supply these amounts. Any excess of vitamin A will do no possible harm as the body has the power of storing it. This-is a blessing as one can eat liberally of green growing vegetables in the season thereof, and the excess will be stored for future use. One cannot depend upon this storage exclusively, but must supplement it by feeding food sources of vitamin A daily. In planning menus refer to the vitamin A food value table and select the available foods rich in A. Use as many of the green foods uncooked as possible. The green outer leaves of lettuce are thirty times richer in A than the inner white leaves; green cabbage is better than white; spinach, parsley and all green leafy vegetables, carrots, yams, sweet-potatoes, yellow corn meal, yellow fruits and tomatoes are all excellent sources of vitamin A. Butter, whole milk, cream cheese, fishliver oils, eggs and the vital organs of animals are also rich sources of A. If thought is given to the building of the family dietary, there need be no deficiency of this important food nutrient. ONE'S ideal is one's vision from the slope of the mountains of endeavor —each step of climbing widens the horizon, not in one only, but in all directions, while the wider vision inspires renewed effort." a 66 SUCCESS can only be reached by climbing a very steep hill. Climb little by little, but never turn back or stand still."—Nathaniel A. Braham. No Nevada Stake HE symbolism of gold mining is original and challenging in the report submitted by Hope Broadbent of the stake board. The picture of the membership arch and the plans for the drive as launched in the Nevada Stake are most interesting: NEVADA STAKE MEMBERSHIP MARCH "Mining is one of the outstanding industries of this particular locality. Recently a 'gold nugget of unusual size was found in the vicinity. Much excitement was caused by the find, and the incident set us to thinking how similar is prospecting and gold mining to the Membership Drive in the Relief Society. This thought gradually shaped itself into a plan for our membership campaign and a symbolic arch that would graphically show the growth of this plan. "The present membership forms the base of the arch. This foundation is well laid and very valuable. Hence, it is depicted in gold, because each of the present members is as FROM THE FIELD By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary priceless to the organization as is the large gold nugget to the prospector. Through the common interests and activities of the Organization these individual units have been molded into a strong, enduring base or foundation which is capable of supporting the structure that is to be built during the next four years. "To give each ward its identity the base was divided, each division representing a ward. The number of gold nuggets (members) comprising each portion of the base was specified. Each ward must not only support its share of the arch but must set about mining the gold with which to build it, for when completed it will be built entirely of gold. "All present members are designated as gold prospectors, to be led and directed by the coordinators. Their first duties are to learn how to reach these gold mines and how to extract the gold they find. To accomplish this they must be alert to the likes and interests of their prospects. Sometimes these gold nuggets will be found close to the surface and will necessitate little effort in discovery. Other times they will be found buried deep with much worthless mineral mixed with them, but still well worth the time and effort necessary to bring them to the surface. "A miner may choose to prospect in territory never before mined, or he may use more intensive and thorough methods in reworking old claims. So in our membership drive we will have two fields in which to prospect: one among persons not 272 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE acquainted with the Organization, who are entirely new to the work; the other, with those who were once active but for some reason are now inactive. 'This second field may be compared to the miner reworking old claims. As with the miner, in order to make this work worth while, new, more varied and intense methods will have to be used to rekindle the interests of these indifferent prospects. "Mining prospectors must have certain tools and provisions to help them in their labors; so must membership prospectors. The pick may represent a firm conviction that the gold nuggets necessary to complete our structure can be found and obtained. The shovel may represent a determination to work. In the knapsack must be had, as bread, a thorough knowledge of our Relief Society organization—its aims, purposes, ideals, program, benefits and obligations. In the canteen must be carried a rich abundance of enthusiasm for the work. "As each ward searches out and gathers the precious gold nuggets from within its boundaries, it will be made a part of the arch structure. By accepting membership and its responsibilities in the Relief Society organization the nuggets will become like gold bricks that fit into the structure, performing a definite and important role in its building. Thus each néw gold nugget (member) will be represented by a space filled in with gold in its respective part of the arch. "The variation in size of these golden blocks is significant, too. In some very small wards the limited resources make the product rarer and more valuable. As can be seen, it will be necessary for each ward to supply its share of the gold to com- | plete the structure of the arch." The stake is confident that with such a well laid foundation and a capstone built of friendly service, supported by cultural growth and spiritual joy, each ward will diligently work and add the nuggets necessary to complete an atch of gold by 1942 for the Nevada Stake. Oneida Stake ROM the Glencoe Ward of the Oneida Stake the following picture was submitted. Among the group is the first president of the Organization, who is now eighty-four years of age and still active. This ONEIDA STAKE, GLENCOE WARD group is of interest because it shows the wide age range of people who are active in Relief Society work, from young mothers with tiny children to mature women who have had the advantage of years of experience in the Organization. The Preston First Ward is submitting the picture below, as it is quite an unusual one. In this enterprising ward an old-fashioned corn husking "bee" was held. The sisters of the Relief Society gathered, husked, and cut from the cob the corn RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL 273 1938 was a very busy one for members of the Parowan Stake. The full allotments of canned fruits, vegetables and meats, as well as the dried fruits and vegetables for the Church Welfare Program were more than filled. The members donated funds to purchase drapes, dishes, and cooking utensils and made rugs to furnish the four apartments of the Parowan Stake court at the St. George Temple. One new organization was effected, creating the Modena Branch. CORN HUSKING "BEE," PRESTON FIRST WARD produced on one-eighth of an acre. Each sister dried as much of the corn as she could care for at her own home. To quote from the letter: "We all worked hard, but it was a novel experience, and we all had a delightful time. A number of batches of corn were dried for a share by people who did not have their own gardens and who needed cor. Altogether more than 300 pounds were dried." Parowan Stake N interesting report shows the work in progress in one of our Southern Utah stakes. The year This makes twelve Relief Society organizations in the stake. In this stake, distance is a problem. Wards are scattered over a large area, but the loyal members travel in all kinds of weather—through winter storms, summer heat, rain and wind—to attend the Union meetings. All phases of the Relief Society program are going forward. The women are eager to gain knowledge, and enthusiastically and faithfully study the different lesson outlines. They are interested in the opportunities for musical development now offered in Relief Society, and the health program provides a splendid field of activity. 274 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE BENSON STAKE MEMBERSHIP PARTY Benson Stake HE above beautiful picture was taken on the thirty-seventh anniversary of the organization of Benson Stake. The Stake Board celebrated the occasion by launching the Membership Drive. There was also a wonderful exhibit of handwork and flowers on display. A cake contest was sponsored. Between four and five hundred women participated in the happy event, which was felt to be an excellent beginning for the very important work of recruiting members. Lethbridge Stake E are indebted to Sister Ida Wood, president of Lethbridge Stake, for the following interesting statement of the Relief Society work in her stake. The Lethbridge Stake Relief Society Board is composed of seven members—all mothers. Five of them live on farms from two to seven miles apart. These mothers have sixty children in all, ranging in age from three to thirty-three years. They all take care of their own homes in addition to the stake Relief Society work, and they also work in ward auxiliaries. 'The president and counsellors each have a son on a mission., The stake is scattered over a large area. 'The wards and branches are far apart, one of the most distant being 350 miles away from the center. The president says: "When making our visits to ward conferences, our total traveling amounts to 1,400 miles. This does not include the distance traveled to our newest branch in Edmonton, the capital of our province, which is 350 miles from Taber, where our board members all live. We are happy in our work and want to give to it the best we have. We feel that we work under difficulties, but we are willing to carry on because we know that the Lord blesses us abundantly, and the sisters in our stake are most wonderful. 'They are all anxious to do their part and help the work along." Shelley Stake ROM the Shelley Stake comes a most interesting report of the Work and Business program as planned for the year 1939. Beginning with January the program gives attention to the balanced diet; February, the curing of meats; March, cereals and grain products, and as it is then nearing the housecleaning season, hints to aid in that important work are included; April, dairy products, also an exchange of quilt patterns and some actual quilting; May, the study of fats and sugars, and an exchange of bulbs and seeds; June, eggs—their treatment and uses, also bookbinding and special hobbies; July is set aside for the year's outing; August, vegetables are to be considered, also attention given to remodeling of clothing; September, fruits and aprons; October, serving food attractively, and attention to the Church Welfare Program; November, cookies and candies, also Christmas suggestions; December, a display of the year's work and a Christmas party. We feel that many helpful sugRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 275 gestions are contained in this material, and all phases harmonize in the making of better homes. Tooele Stake HE project for the year 1938 was one hundred per cent visiting teaching. The picture below is of a group who accomplished this objective and faithfully carried through the project. Not only did they make their regular visits, but they used the Messages and carefully and wisely reported the condition of people in the districts visited. There are thirteen districts in this ward and in most of these there are three teachers for each district. Seven of the teachers in this group made the visits every month during the year. This fine work has enabled the officers to give needed assistance in sickness, also to supply food and other commodities where necessary, and to capably render service in homes where death reigned. At Christmas time a splendid piece of work was accomplished; new underwear and other clothing were made and given to those in need. VISITING TEACHERS, TOOELE STAKE MUSIC DEPARTMENT THE SINGING MOTHERS By Ruth May Fox Sing on, Singing Mothers, sing on and sing on; Lift your hearts in rejoicing all the day long For the Organization which leads you in ways Of noble endeavor to honor your days. Sing on, Singing Mothers, sing on. Sing in the morning when over the hill The sun sheds his glory o'er meadow and rill; Awaking the earth to a newness of life, Revealing such beauty one marvels at strife. Sing on, Singing Mothers, sing on. Sing to your babies as they cling to your breast; Sing to your children when you lay them to rest; As the shadows of twilight over them fall Sing softly—the Shepherd is guarding you all. Sing on, Singing Mothers, sing on.
Sing when you're weary, sing when you're sad; The song of the righteous will make the soul glad; The Father will listen, your sorrow He knows; His tender compassion forever o'erflows. Sing on, Singing Mothers, sing on.
Sing ye in triumph as did Miriam of old; When evil is vanquished God's wonders unfold. E'en in your wilderness, grim though it be, You may walk on dry land through the midst of the sea. Sing on, Singing Mothers, sing on.
THE above tribute, The Singing Mothers, was penned by Sister Ruth May Fox, former General President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, February, 1939, shortly after celebrating her eighty-fifth birthday. When questioned regarding the circumstances which prompted the writing of these verses, Sister Fox said: "Well, it is a good subject. Then, think what it means to have a 'singing mother' in the home. I have always been proud of the Singing Mothers. I have always regarded the Relief Society as a strong religious organization and have felt that I should contribute my best efforts to it whenever possible."
These verses were thought out completely and memorized before they were placed on paper. Sister Fox expressed it in this way: "I just think words out and remember. These words did not see paper until the whole thing was finished." She says her writing ability has come through practice and that if people will only work hard enough they can accomplish almost anything. Sister Fox writes from the fullness of her heart and from actual experiences in life. "Why shouldn't I write about singing mothers?" she said. "I have a singing heart myself. I go to bed humming and rise each morning
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 277
with a song in my heart. Beautiful music keeps one young. Some people say, 'Life begins at forty'; but I say it begins at seventy. I don't think 'old'. I am willing to admit my years but unwilling to admit I am old."
We are indeed indebted to Sister Fox for this inspirational poem. We are proud of the eighty-five years she has so generously shared. Such years of wisdom, encouragement and youthful enthusiasm will ever keep alive the spirit of music in our souls.
By Janet M. Thompson
Pushing Back Last Year's Leaves
By Kathleen B. Nelson
PUSHING back last year's leaves is a dramatic gesture. One does it with such an odd mixture of eagerness and timidity. Going into the garden the first warm day spells rare adventure. That clump of green looks promising. I advance breathless. What? Only catnip! I stoop down low to get the proper leverage to oust that intruder, and thus I perceive a dandelion impudently flaunting its lush rosette. With weed-digger poised for a ruthless slaughter, I pause to investigate, poking gently with my fingers, and see at the dandelion's margin a colony of tiny seedlings. One true leaf, crinkly and round, confirms my first hope. They are primroses. One false move, one ruthless rake and where, oh where, would all this potential loveliness have fled?
Fingers are the only tool to trust in removing last year's leaves if you truly love your garden! This first discovery is followed by another and another. The crocuses have done their own pushing and there a fat hyacinth wearing a brown-leaf girdle reminds one of a portly matron. Here are forget-me-nots, lilies of the valley and violas thickly studded with buds. One more warm day and loveliness will flash.
This pushing back last year's leaves is doubly poignant after a long illness or a catastrophe in our own lives. For just so do we come back pushing timidly among the ruins. If this is your lot this spring, take heart, be of good cheer, for if you have ever planted there awaits you happy surprise.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS
Can The Family Have Two Heads?
Lesson 7
By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.)
THE contemporary theory of marriage looks on it as a democratic co-partnership in which husband and wife have equal rights, privileges, duties, responsibilities, and obligations. As a fact, only about one-third of the marriages, even in a well educated stratum of society, reach this ideal. A study of thousands of families revealed the following situation:
Wife-dominated..................34% Husband-dominated..........32% "Fifty-fifty"..................34%
But there was a great difference in the happiness of these marriages, the percentage rated (by close friends and relatives) as happy being:
Wife-dominated................47% Husband-dominated..........61% Fifty-fifty....................87%
Obviously, if the family is to have only one head, it is safer that the husband be that head. His abdication probably indicates that he is not a very strong character to start with,—perhaps brought up under too much feminine dominance and deprived of the opportunity to develop initiative, self-respect, and readiness to accept responsibility. Such a state of affairs is probably just as unsatisfactory to the wife as to the husband.
But it is obviously much safer to have a marriage of two emotionally mature personalities who can work out their partnership on a "50-50" basis.
Among the reasons for the failure of so many intelligent and otherwise well-educated people to attain a genuine partnership in marriage are the following:
1. They scarcely know what cooperation means. The general patterns of American society are based too much on competition and conflict, rather than on cooperation.
2. In the present public school system, boys and girls are trained from childhood to think that competition of the sexes is the normal thing, not cooperation. From kindergarten onward, they compete for marks, for the teacher's favor, for election to class offices. In high school they are taught that they must go out into the world and get jobs in competition with each other,—that each sex will try to get the better of the other, perhaps by unfair tactics. All this is no preparation for real cooperation in marriage.
3. The girl's patterns may be distorted by the Masculine Protest (lesson No. 6).
4. The boy's patterns may be distorted by too much female aggressiveness and dominance (lesson No. 5).
With these handicaps, a special effort must be made to prepare young people to cooperate with each other, in order that they may work out the most satisfactory relationship in marriage. This involves:
1. Promotion of emotional maturity.
2. Getting rid of the idea of "sex equality". The sexes are not equal: Equality does not exist in nature; it is found only in the imaginary figures of the geometrists. The sexes complement each other, supplement each other, are mutually dependent. Each has its own specializations. Neither one is complete without the other. To think that either one is, in a general way, superior and the other inferior is just as unscientific as to suppose that they could possibly be equal.
3. Children should be brought up family-minded rather than herd-minded. This means closer association with their own parents and other adults (Lesson No. 8).
4. General patterns of cooperation should be promoted (as for example, through church organizations) in place of the selfish competition of much of the modern business world. If people can grow up with the idea of successful cooperation as producers and as consumers, it may be easier for them to transfer these patterns into their homes.
Instead of cooperating, husband and wife are now too often competing against each other, or even in actual conflict, over such things as the division of the budget, the use of the automobile, the opportunity for recreation, the affection of the children, and so on. (In cooperation one is working with a person toward some goal which it is possible for both to attain. In competition one is working against a person toward a goal which only one can attain. In con-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 279
flict, one is not only competing, but trying at the same time to injure or destroy the competitor.)
5. More division of labor in family life, based on biological specialization and on convenience, will also remove likelihood of conflict. No army ever won a battle if it was commanded by two generals, each with equal authority and each determined to assert his right to command. But an army can have two generals of equal rank and experience, each assigned to a particular type of work and each responsible for his own department; and they can confer profitably in staff meetings.
Many a home suffers from having two generals, each determined to be boss. At the very best, this leads to a great waste of time in talking over all sorts of trivial affairs, because each is determined to be heard before anything at all is done. It is much simpler to divide up the labor, each being responsible for certain things; then they will have time to discuss the few really important matters of new policy that arise from time to time.
Just how the division should be made is wholly a matter of convenience. The important thing is a clear understanding that each is expected to assume responsibility for certain parts of the family enterprise.
6. This is greatly helped if young people are taught, so far as possible, how to cooperate intelligently in some of the most important areas of family relationships. Among these are:
(a) The marital adjustment. Unless this is achieved fairly early in marriage, it may result in all sorts of unnecessary tension and friction, which make cooperation in any
280 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
sphere more difficult. It depends largely on emotional maturity, understanding of the differences in the psychology of the sexes, and a minimum amount of information easily obtainable through a number of good books and pamphlets that are widely accessible.
(b) Handling the family income. Many men are generous, not so many are just, in this respect. Sometimes a man, feeling uncertain of his ability to maintain superiority in any other way, uses his control of the pocketbook as a club to bring his wife into submission. In a large number of successful families, the joint checking account with agreement on division of labor in taking care of expenditures proves satisfactory, but there is no one panacea. In some equally successful families the wife handles all the finances, in others the husband.
(c) Management of children. These should be, and normally are, the strongest bond uniting husband and wife in a partnership; but everyone knows that they sometimes serve as a cause of discord instead. If husbands as well as wives have a proper education for parenthood, much of the difficulty will disappear.
(d) Housework. The husband who will accept no responsibility whatever for what goes on at home is matched by the wife who expects her husband to do a hard day's work outside, then come home and do a full half of the housework as well.
(e) Recreation. Abundance of mutual, wholesome, inexpensive, constructive recreation that will break the daily monotony, bring husband and wife closer together, give them something to think about, and talk about, include the children (if there are any), is an absolutely necessary part of family relations. People should budget their time for this purpose, just as carefully as they budget their finances (much more carefully than most of us do, in fact!).
(f) Attitude toward relatives. The husband (according to a widespread complaint) expects the wife to show deference to his relatives but is sometimes careless about showing an equal amount to hers. This question of in-laws has been a hard one since the beginning of time. There is no formula to solve it automatically, but it should be faced frankly and in a broad spirit of cooperation.
Questions and Problems
1. Check over the happiest families you know and name the factors that contribute to this happiness. What factors contribute to unhappiness in family life?
2. If the wife has had a good job before marriage, do you think this experience helps to produce real cooperation between husband and wife?
3. What is the function of religion in aiding husbands and wives to achieve larger happiness and mutual understanding?
4. Would you say that there is more or less likelihood of family disintegration in a home where the wife has outside employment than where she gives most of her attention to the home? When? Why?
5. What changes in the education of young people in high school do you think would most effectively promote successful cooperation when they marry?
Out-of-door Development of the Home Beautiful
(Continued from page 230)
standing from year to year. We become so used to them they are hardly noticed, but the stranger is shocked at their ugliness. Remove them and see what a different picture is possible.
The garage, which has now become a necessity, is the logical nucleus of the outdoor service. Farm property is often treated similarly, with the garage the center of the service directly related to the house; while the barn, farther removed, belongs to the group of other farm buildings not necessarily in connection with the family living quarters. Many practical solutions in modern building include the garage as a unit of the house. All in all our utmost ef-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 281
forts should be used to make this service area convenient, of minimum space, and inconspicuous as possible.
NOW turn to the property that remains. Measure it carefully and make a plan of it on paper, for convenience sake allowing one-fourth inch to represent one foot existing. At this stage do not exclaim, "Oh I cannot do things like that—I never could draw anything!" With determination make an attempt. It may prove to be rather a curious shape when you have it completed, suggesting two or more areas. That only makes its possibilities more interesting. Be sure to show all buildings or construction of any kind and trees or shrubs already growing. Note the directions, North, East, and South, conspicuously, so you can keep in mind
[Advertisement: Beautify YOUR HOME WITH Quality! Cheap paint and wallpaper are always wasteful and disappointing. Only quality pays when you beautify your home. This spring, paint up and clean up with FULLER high quality products: Paint, Wallpaper, Glass, Cleaners, Polishes, Waxes. W. P. FULLER & CO. Salt Lake and Ogden FULLER PAINTS See the FULLER PAINT DEALER in your town for inspiring literature on home beautification.]
282 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
where the sun will shine and where shadows fall. Then ask yourself, "Where does the house 'connect' with this area?" For this is to be the private area, the outdoor living room, the spot you call your own. In order to really enjoy it, you must be able to reach it easily and preferably get at least a glimpse of it from the indoor living room. A slight change of the house itself may be necessary to accomplish this. But it is often simple to change a back bedroom to a study or sun room. Additional use may come from converting a window into a French door or even knocking out a section of the wall to allow for a door. Never will a door open upon more pleasure for you than when it opens directly into your garden.
An open terrace adjoining this doorway can be very inexpensive and a most desirable link between the indoors and outdoors. There are usually several ways to solve the problem of getting directly to the garden, and all should be studied to be sure the one best suited is chosen. It is much wiser to do this "on paper" before time and money are spent than to plunge in and then in disappointment say, "I wish I'd thought of that other way before!" A happy relationship between the indoors and the garden, more than any other factor, assures delight in the garden itself.
Once this is determined the next procedure is to enclose it. Due regard has been given the neighbors and the public, but this area, to be our own, must be private; and to be private it must be entirely shut off from prying eyes. There are many ways of doing this. One of the most beautiful methods is with high plantings of shrubs or hedges which need not necessarily be expensive. The old-fashioned privet, Ligustrum vulgare, for example, has wonderful possibilities for such use. It grows readily from cutting, is not exacting in soil requirements and makes an excellent background either growing naturally or clipped as a hedge.
One thing to especially remember in enclosing a garden is that it is not "enclosed" unless the enclosure is above eye level, really making a screen. Often in a very small space it is better to use a lattice fence and vines in order to conserve space, but always the fence must be six feet high if it is to be properly effective. Sometimes this enclosure is also needed to shut out unsightly things beyond. Then what is called a background screen is often successful. This would be a planting of one or two trees along with large, rapid-growing shrubs with yet smaller, compact ones in the foreground to make a pleasing "mass" effect in all and at the same time serve a special purpose.
Once we have our area related to the indoors and enclosed, it only remains for us to carry out our heart's
[Advertisements for ELECTROLUX GAS Refrigerator, Bennett's Paints, and Permanently SILENT SERVEL Mountain Fuel Supply Company]
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, APRIL - 283
desire—but on paper first! The results we hope for will be much more certain if we do it first by plan. A shrub can be moved, an existing tree taken into consideration so much more thoroughly if we do it first in our minds. Once the scheme is developed we can stay steadfastly to
284 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
our purpose and with the minimum of discouragement reach our goal.
An occasional traveler passing through a town may have leisure to visit the library, may even be informed of an unusual collection or exhibit, but all will notice the width and cleanliness of the streets, appreciate shade of lovely trees and get a general impression of the individual houses. It is your house and mine, with friendly trees to soften the lines of the roof, with thriving shrubs to add to the substantial, lived-in appearance, and a neat, green lawn adjoining one home to another which unifies the picture—a picture of security, civic pride and friendliness—which will happily be remembered and admired.
[Multiple advertisements including:]
Headquarters for— CANARY BIRDS, BABY CHICKS, DUCKS, TURKEYS, VOGELERS. Purity Seeds—Best By Test 32 West 1st So. Salt Lake
You Can Feel At Home The NEWHOUSE HOTEL SALT LAKE CITY Because every member of the management is an L. D. S. Member and active worker. 400 Rooms—400 Baths Our Accommodations are Outstanding Our Rates Are Reasonable Cafeteria—Dining Room—Buffet
OUR BOAST "O. P. S." Food Shoppers live better and spend less. We boast that we are proud of our customers and proud of our men. We feel they like us, too. We try to make it a profitable pleasure to buy clean, wholesome foods from proud "O. P. S." men. O. P. SKAGGS FOOD STORES "A Surety of Purity"
SINGING MOTHERS Moved to NEW HOME MUSIC CONFERENCE SPECIALS! 70 So. Main
Outstanding values in L. D. S. Literature, general books, and high-grade merchandise are offered at the Deseret Book Company DURING CONFERENCE ONLY.
[Followed by detailed book listing with prices]
These prices are all cash and carry. Add 10% to the special price if the books are to be mailed. Also add 2% for Utah Sales Tax for all purchases in Utah. Add $1.00 for mailing on sets of Church History.
When you come to Conference, visit the Deseret Book Company, and see the many Books, Gifts and other attractive items offered for sale. We carry the largest stock of Books in the Intermountain Region.
DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah
We Can Not Too Strongly Urge... That you bind your 1938 Relief Society Magazine in one durable, attractive volume. You more than double the value of your subscription to this fine publication by making readily accessible to the whole family the wonderful reading material it contains. Handsome cloth binding, gold stamped, $1.50 per volume. Special reductions for quantities. Write us about this offer!
The DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street—Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
JOY INSTEAD OF WANT The Outcome of a Beneficial Income
MAY, 1939
Vol. XXVI — No. 5
U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690
The Magazine needs advertisers— If our Magazine is to become not only more useful but as beautiful in every respect as the best women's magazines of the day, it will cost more money than we are now spending. We have no intention of increasing the subscription rate, but if we can increase our advertising income we shall then have the means to make whatever improvements are necessary to establish and maintain leadership.
All our advertisers hope for is that as you readers go through the Magazine you will read their advertisements. As people tend to buy the products and services about which they are best informed, the advertisers are sure that if their messages are read they will get their money's worth in trade.
Index to Advertisers
American Lady Baking Company....... 283 Arden Milk......................... 285 Beneficial Life Insurance Company... Back Cover Cloverleaf Milk.................... 287 Deseret Book Store....... Inside Back Cover Deseret News Press...... Inside Back Cover L. D. S. Business College........... 283 Salt Lake Cabinet Fixture.......... 358 Temple and Burial Clothes.......... 358 Vida Fox Clawson................... 356 Z. C. M. I......................... 285
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MORE THAN 40,000 SUBSCRIBERS
"L. D. S. Training Pays!"
GIVE MARKET VALUE To your high school or college education. Take a course in business training!
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City
Ask for "Bulletin of Information"
Mothers know a Vitamin reserve helps make children HAPPIER... HEALTHIER....
Choose Fisher's Vitamin "D" Bread!
A Product of FISHER'S MASTER BAKERS At their big Home-Owned Bakery
"IF I WERE A JUNE BRIDE I'D LET ZCMI PLAN MY ENTIRE WEDDING"
An oft repeated remark because everyone knows that our Miss Elaine Allen in the Trousseau Room has a way about weddings and trousseaux that none other can touch. From the moment you put yourself into our hands until you depart on your honeymoon all the details of the wedding will be taken care of by Miss Allen and you'll appear on your wedding day the fresh, un-tired, sweet bride... You've always wanted to be.
ZCMI Fashion Center of the West
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
The Relief Society Magazine
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVI MAY, 1939 No. 5
Contents
Special Features
Frontispiece—Singing Mothers.............................286 Woman As An Interpreter of the Faith..................Maude Beeley Jacob 287 May First, National Child Health Day.................Bernice Moss 298 General Conference..........................................313
Fiction
A White Lily.....................................Linnie Parker Gold 290 Calling All Remnant Fans............................Kathleen B. Nelson 299 The Shining Heart (Cont'd)..........................Sibyl Spande Bowen 305
General Features
The Body's Need For Vitamins........................Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe 300 Happenings.........................................Annie Wells Cannon 309
Editorials:
The Spirit Penetrateth.............................................310 President Robison Called to Washington.............................311 Mormon Handicraft..................................................312
Lessons:
Youth Faces A World of Change......................................354
Poetry
O Hearts Bereaved..................................Winnifred M. Tibbs 297 My Babe of Yesteryear..............................Essie Bateman Sisk 304 Little Bonnet of Blue.............................Jessie J. Dalton 308
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
Relief Society Singing Mothers
Much has been said in praise of the music which was so great a feature of the Relief Society Conference. All praise falls short in the actual expression of what we really feel. Ninety stakes and three missions sent their talented women to form the Augmented Chorus numbering over 1200. The loyalty and devoted service of this vast group expressed something even finer than the beautiful music they rendered, though the medium through which they found expression is the very loftiest possible to humanity. The Relief Society is proud of this splendid achievement and realizes the enormous power for good which is expressed in this vast army of women—in addition to the great cultural uplift they are in all of the stakes, wards, and missions. From our hearts we thank every individual woman in addition to the fine soloists, the accompanists, Mrs. Alta Cassity, and Dr. Frank Asper, and the Director, Professor Wade N. Stephens.
The following tribute by President Frank Evans of the Eastern States Mission in his General Conference address indicates the general appreciation felt for this fine chorus:
Tribute To The Singing Mothers
"I wish they—all of them—(members of the Church in the Eastern States Mission) could have seen especially one of the demonstrations here during this conference, and I refer to the Singing Mothers. Not as a musical demonstration, particularly, but as something far more than that.... Twelve hundred minds directed to a leader here; twelve hundred spirits responding to every gesture of the leader, in order that they might give forth their message.... It seemed to me that here was an achievement in leadership. But more than that, in the high art of following it was a triumph."—President Frank Evans.
THE AUGMENTED CHORUS OF RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS IN THE TABERNACLE ON TEMPLE SQUARE
Representatives from ninety stakes and three missions made up this group of some 1200 Singing Mothers who were led by Wade N. Stephens and accompanied on the organ and piano by Dr. Frank W. Asper and Alta Cassity. They furnished the Conference music April 6th on the 109th anniversary of the organization of the Church. In the center at the base of the famous organ one may see the beautiful membership arch which illustrated in colors the strength, growth (during 1938), and the aim of the Relief Society (one hundred thousand strong by 1942), built on a firm foundation of Spirituality, Service, and Culture.
The Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XXVI MAY, 1939 No. 5
Woman As An Interpreter Of The Faith
By Maude Beeley Jacob
"The Lord giveth the word: the women that publish the tidings are a great host."
WOMAN'S position in the world today is in a large measure due to the humanizing power of Christianity. To a world of conflicting racial conditions, dominated by "might" rather than by "right," Jesus brought a new gospel, a gospel establishing the sacredness of the individual. To the humble fishermen of Galilee as to the rich young ruler; to the devoted Mary of Bethany as to the erring Mary of Magdala, Jesus taught the true meaning of life.
The story of civilization is a story of conquest, dominion, and achievement. In the conquest of the material world the conqueror is Man. Into the tapestry of civilization much that is good and beautiful has been woven by Woman. As the interpreter of life woman has played the role of the "finisher of civilization". Quick to love, to hope, to fear, the spiritual intuitions of woman have translated themselves into the ideals that have become the humanizing forces of society.
Looking into the Far Away there are three great races contributing to the general heritage of mankind. The Hebrew gave us our religion; the Greek gave us our standards of thought and beauty; and the Roman gave us our law and order. But it was Christianity that brought to woman a kingdom of usefulness and duty. Her influence has emanated in the past through religion, education, service, and art and through equality, altruism and love.
Now, as at all times, the greatest responsibility of woman is to become an interpreter of life to her generation. What then shall we say of this sacred role of woman? An interpreter is a discoverer, a translator, and an interpreter of the faith is one whose word or act or thought reveals the love of God and the meaning of life in such a way that others may understand. To comprehend the deep significance of her task she should be able to read in the heart of womankind the questions and challenges of the day. To gain courage for her task she can look at the noble lives of those who have preceded her as interpreters of the faith. For guidance she must ever follow Jesus of Nazareth who gave to the womanhood of his day knowledge and vision and hope.
Women today in the quest of the
288 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
meaning of life are asking the age-old questions: How did man and nature come to be? What are God's purposes for mankind? What is the relation between God and man? Is this life all? What is the source of evil in the world? How can the individual gain a knowledge of God's plan for man's eternal growth and happiness?
In the desire to live completely, women are seeking to understand the laws of their own being, the appetites, passions, motives, desires, and emotions that stir them to action and yield satisfactions by asking: Why am I an individual? How shall I live? What pleasures and satisfactions will yield most to living? What is the place of knowledge and self-control in the scheme of things? Can I by individual effort live in harmony with the highest ideals of living?
In the desire to understand the environment in which they live with its institutions and organizations, its customs and its laws, its progress and its conflicts, women are asking: What are my loyalties? What are my responsibilities? Have I an obligation for the continuance and refinement of society? Can injustice, inequality, greed, selfishness, corruption and crime be corrected? Can opportunity, liberty, and happiness be assured to all? What are the pitfalls of present living for myself and my offspring?
As life with all its complexity crowds upon her, from her innermost being issues the call for guidance, and from the great heart of her comes the desire to serve her generation.
The procession of women we have come to look upon as interpreters of the faith is a long one. It reaches from Sarah in her tent home on the Plains of Mamre, busy with her weaving and her breadmaking, to Madame Curie in her laboratory seeking a cure for human suffering. Many of the noble women who lead the procession are found in the Bible: Deborah, the valiant woman who stirred the youth of Israel to continue their fight for their national integrity; Ruth and her loving friendship for Naomi; Hannah, the lowly mother, preparing her only son for the service of the Lord; Esther, the patriotic queen, risking life itself for her people. Among the women of the New Testament record towers the life of Mary of Nazareth, following the life of her Divine Son. What suffering she knew! What glory she must have known! Mary and Martha of Bethany knew Jesus as few knew Him. He taught them, and they in turn served Him in their own home. Mary of Magdala knew in very deed the mission of Jesus to erring humanity. Lydia, the seller of fine purple, is a glorious figure of the missionary experiences of the apostles, giving her home, her resources, and herself in service. Paula, the Roman patrician, belongs to the women of the Bible, giving of her wealth to aid Saint Jerome while he made the translations of the sacred records to become the Bible was not all, but saving time from the menial duties of maintaining the little shelter at Bethlehem she rendered valuable assistance in translation, as she was an excellent Latin scholar. As the centuries passed, hosts of noble mothers, teachers, patriots, and leaders joined the ranks of the interpreters. We recall the hosts of mothers who, like Hannah of old, have stood beside little children and the young people of their homes with one hand in blessing upon their head while the other pointed the way to a worthy life. Our hearts salute those interpreters in church and school who have endeavored to interpret life to the youth of the age. 'Through the vision of such women as Alice Freeman Palmer and Mary Lyon, women have partaken of the blessings of education. Through the ministrations of women like Florence Nightingale, Dorothea Lynde Dix, Clara Barton, Jane Addams, the humanization of our social institutions has been attained. That woman might take her place in the world of affairs the worthv followers of Mary Woolstonecraft, as Susan B. Anthony, Frances Willard, Anna Howard Shaw, have ever striven to eliminate ignorance, selfishness, and sentimentality from the lives of women, believing that "If women are souls, they are immortal souls. Unless they cooperate in making life better, they will act as a wall to block progress. The place of woman in the world is not to subdue or subordinate but to refine and to improve it". Just as the test of civilization is its estimate of women so civilization is "The power of good women', To the women of today concerned with the needs of the world and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY 289 a vision of God's purposes for mankind comes the challenge of service. Unable to see that they have any service that the world needs, they falter. 'To them comes the reassurring words of the Master: "Ye are the light of the world. Neither do men light a lamp, and put it under a bushel, but on a stand; and it shineth unto all that are in the house. Even so let your light shine'. To all women the words of the familiar parable of the Talents are significant. Each of the servants received something for the use of which he was held strictly accountable. To discover the gift and to use it was the challenge. As Paul said to his young friend Timothy: "Stir into flame the gift of God, which is in thee," which gift is for the purpose of interpreting "the spirit and the faith of Jesus for the world's profit". To the women of the Church, the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the supreme gift. None are left out or denied the privilege of a share in it. So it is that the women of the Church by the right use of their gift interpret the faith which is so real to them and so vital to all mankind. The greatest role of the womanhood of the Church is to serve as Interpreter of the Faith. PROMISE By Annie Wells Cannon Unhappy world so full of sorrows Lift up thine eyes.  Behold blue skies Have laughed away the April showers And decked the earth with fragrant flowers. The darkest days have their tomorrows. White Lily By Linnie Parker Gold USIE ran a finger through her short dark locks, and two puzzled lines appeared on her nineyear-old brow. She read the problem again: "If a farmer bought a calf for $12 and it cost $3 a month to feed it, and he sold it six months later for $42, how much profit did he make?" The problem seemed simple enough, but Susie wasn't concentrating. She had a problem of her own which read like this: "Tf a flower in Mr. Cowan's window costs 98c, and a girl just has to buy it for her mother for Mother's Day, which is only six days away, and the girl has only 22c, how can she get the other 76c?" The problem would be much simpler if only she had some spare time, but there was Mommy to be taken care of—and ol' Pudge. Mommy had to stay in bed all the time. She hadn't been able to get up since she hurt her back right after Daddy died two years ago. The doctor said Mommy could walk again if she had an operation, but the operation would cost hundreds and hundreds of dollars, and the little money Daddy had left them was almost gone now. 'That was why Susie didn't have an Easter dress, and why they didn't have desserts any more except on holidays. Ol' Pudge was Susie's three-year-old brother. His real name was James, but he was just as wide as he was tall, and his legs were ever so short, and wherever they went he just barely moved along, no matter how Susie coaxed and pleaded. Susie took him to the free day nursery every morning as she went to school and called for him on the way home. A visiting nurse came to see Mommy every day, and Mrs. Brown next door always brought Mommy some lunch and came any time Mommy knocked on the window; but it was up to Susie to keep the little three-roomed house clean and prepare their meals, with Mommy to tell her exactly what to do. Whenever Susie thought about Mommy, a soft, warm feeling crept over her. Mommy was so sweet and patient, and she understood about everything. That was why Susie just had to buy the white lily for Mother's Day. It was the most beautiful thing in the world, and Mommy was the kind who ought to have beautiful things. But the most important reason was because the white lily would make Mommy well. Susie knew that it would. She had known it ever since yesterday morning when the Sunday School teacher had told about the lady who touched Christ's robe and was healed. Of course, Christ wasn't here any more so people could touch his robe, but Susie knew there must be some way He could make people well, and when she saw the white lily in Mr. Cowan's window on the way home from Sunday School, a funny tingling feeling in her heart had told her that Christ had made that beautiful white lily just especially to make Mommy well. If Mommy could only touch it— She tried to tell ol' Pudge about it, but he was more interested in breathing on the shop window to make it all foggy. Susie had been saving her pennies ever since Christmas to get Mommy that set of colored thread that cost a quarter at McMillan's dry goods store on the corner, but now she couldn't think of anything but the white lily and how she could get the other seventysix cents. She just couldn't waste her time figuring out about farmers and calves. Let the farmer worry about that— "COME on, Pudge, please!" Susie coaxed, "if you'll walk just a little faster we'll go 'round by the long way and see if the flower's still in the window." "Don't wanna," Pudge said, stopping to pick up a shiny pebble by the walk. "An' we'll stop at Mrs. Carlyle's an' you can see the cats," Susie promised. This being a little more to Pudge's liking, he quickened his pace imperceptibly. Yes! The lily was still there—way over to one side with a little card on it that said 98c. It was lovely—whiter than anything Susie had ever before seen. Pudge didn't seem interested, but then, he was so little—and you couldn't expect a three-year-old to understand about things like that. He'd be interested enough if he only knew that it would make Mommy all well again. Susie sighed. She would liked to have looked at it for hours, but Pudge was chasing a bug or something in the gutter, and besides Mommy would be expecting them home, and she wanted to stop and see if there was any work Mrs. Carlyle would let her do to earn some money. The Carlyles had an automobile and a vacuum cleaner—and a lawn—and lots RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 291 of things. But Mrs. Carlyle didn't seem to think it would be a good idea for Susie to try to do any more work. "Why," she said, "we're the ones that ought to be coming to you for work, my dear! You seem to have a monopoly on 'it. I don't know how you'd do any more than you do!" "But I want to buy a flower for Mother's Day," Susie explained. "Your mother thinks you're the sweetest little flower in the world," said Mrs. Carlyle kindly. "You don't have to worry about buying flowers for her. Being good and honest and helpful means a whole lot more to mothers than things you can buy with money. Your mother appreciates all you're doing for her, and one little flower more or less wouldn't make any difference to her!" "Oh, yes it would!' Susie exclaimed. "You see, the flower would make her well—so she could walk— an al?. Mrs. Carlyle smiled indulgently. "The only thing that will make your mother well is an operation, little one," she said. Susie guessed it wouldn't do to explain about Christ and the lily. Grown-ups were like Pudge—they just didn't seem to understand about things like that. But Mommy would understand—only she couldn't tell Mommy—it had to be a surprise! At two other places Susie stopped to see if she could run errands or tend babies, but she met with practically the same results, so they trudged on home to find Mommy waiting with a smile. Pudge curled up on the bed beside her while Susie 292 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fixed stew and bread and milk for their dinner. When dinner had been cleared away and Pudge was in bed, Susie brought out pen and ink and paper and laboriously set to work to write in twenty-five words or less why she liked Kleenzol Soap. It would mean she'd have to spend three of her precious twenty-two cents to send it away with the wrappers; but it would be worth it, for then she might win two hundred dollars. Every day they gave away a two hundred dollar first prize and twelve ten dollar prizes. Susie figured she ought to at least win a ten dollar prize. If she ran down to the corner and mailed it tonight, it would get there by Wednesday; and she had heard over the radio that Wednesday's winners would be announced Saturday. Of course, she wouldn't get the money on Saturday, but then, she guessed Mr. Cowan would let her charge the lily if she had been announced a winner and had all that much money coming to her. By Friday Susie was a bundle of nerves, despairing one minute and hopeful the next. She and Pudge had delivered three packages for Mr. McMillan on Wednesday §afternoon, for which he had paid her a dime, and some kind old man had given Pudge a nickel while he was waiting outside the store with his nose pressed flat against the jelly bean. Display. That made thirty-four cents they had altogether—sixty-four cents left to get—a tremendous sum; but there was still the soap contest to hope for! I was on the way home from school Friday afternoon that Susie found the purse. Perhaps if Pudge hadn't suddenly been seized by an irresistible desire to wade in the gutter, she would never have: seen it. But Pudge went wading, and when she rushed over to pull him out, there was the purse—right on the edge of the curb! She pounced on it with an excited little gasp and sank down on the grass to examine it while Pudge gleefully resumed his wading. There was $2.85 in the purse! Susie felt a bit dizzy. Such wealth! Now she could buy the lily, and Mommy would be well, and they could go on picnics and have all sorts of gay adventures! But Susie noticed with dismay that there was a card in the purse that said it belonged to a Mrs. Nelson of 265 Del Monte Court. Del Monte Court was the last street she passed before she got to school. The houses over there were pretty nice, Susie argued. Mrs. Nelson wouldn't need the $2.85. She probably wouldn't ever miss it, and just think what it could do for Mommy and Pudge and herself! Resolutely she tucked the purse between her books, pulled Pudge out of the gutter and started toward home. But she didn't feel quite comfortable. She wished that if God were going to let her find a purse, it could have been one without any name on it. Mommy would say it wasn't honest to keep it. Susie thought of how Mrs. Carlyle had said being good and honest meant more to mothers than presents and things. But being honest wouldn't buy the white lily—and Susie had to buy the white lily! Her heart beat more rapidly as they approached Mr. Cowan's florist shop. She always held her breath until she got close enough to see if it had been sold—and ol' Pudge was so slow! But it was still there—lovelier than ever with a new white bud just opening. She touched the purse to reassure herself. Why she could walk in there and buy it right this minute! But the longer she looked at the lily, the more she knew that she couldn't do it! "It wouldn't do any good, Pudge," she said thoughtfully. "I guess if we bought it with this money it wouldn't make Mommy well after all—on account of the money not really belonging to us, I mean. It'd still be beautiful and Mommy would like it, and all, but it just wouldn't work. We'll have to take the purse back." They turned around. It was five blocks to Del Monte Court, and Susie had to carry Pudge part of the way, but it was worth it because Mrs. Nelson seemed very happy to get her purse back. She gave Susie a quarter and took them home in her car. Susie put the quarter with the rest of their money. All evening she kept thinking about the lily and wishing that she had it tucked safely away all ready to surprise Mommy on Sunday morning. But she was glad she had returned the purse. That's what Mommy would have told her to do. She wondered if God had anything to do with soap contests. Maybe if He knew about her returning the purse— SATURDAY was a busy day for Susie. The house had to be thoroughly cleaned because the rest of the week there was not time for anything but straightening. All day she worked because she wanted things to look extra nice for Mother’s Day. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 293  Mommy had allowed her to make a cake because tomorrow was a special day, and Susie planned how they'd spread out a lunch on Mommy's bed tomorrow—just like a picnic—and she'd bring a carnation home from Sunday School and put it in that 'tiny vase in the window sill—and the lily would stand right there on the—but Susie was afraid to think of the lily now. There was such a little time left, and there was only fifty-nine cents in the box, no matter how many times she counted it. Once she laid her flushed cheek against her mother's cool one and said, "Mommy, if you had your 'druthers' what would you druther have than anything else for Mother's Day?" "My health," Mommy answered wistfully, "so I could be a real mother to my dear little kiddies." "You're the realest mother in the world," Susie said staunchly; but her heart longed more than ever for the lily that would make Mommy well. At 5:30 the Kleenzol Soap Company announced their Wednesday winners. Susie listened with bated breath while they congratulated a Mrs. Stone of Dayton, Ohio, for winning first prize. Oh well, she hadn't counted on winning that anyway. All she needed was thirty-nine cents. A ten dollar prize would be enough. But twelve names were read over the radio, and not one of them was Susie Baker! She couldn't believe it! Quick tears came to her eyes and she went into the other room so Mommy couldn't see. She sat down by the table and buried her head in her arms. It wasn't fair —after she'd returned the purse and everything! But the steady ticking 294 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the clock reminded her that it was almost six o'clock. Mr. Cowan would be closing his shop, and she wouldn't have any flowers at all for Mommy in: the morning. You couldn't just stop living because you didn't win a soap contest. She'd just have to see what was the nicest thing fifty-nine cents would buy for the dearest mother in the world. NOW, Pudge," Susie said sternly as they pressed their freckled noses against the window, "concentrate on flowers instead of bugs for just a second, can't you? This money's part yours and you got to help choose. 'There's a geranium for fifcents. Do you think Mommy would like it?" "Uh-huh," grunted Pudge, his eyes following a fat toad that was hopping on the sidewalk. Susie looked and looked—there were sweet peas—Mommy would love them; but they wouldn't last a long time like the geranium or a fern. Her eyes kept going back to the white lily. It was no use. It was so beautiful that everything else in the window faded into insignificance —even the things that were marked five dollars! Susie closed one eye and looked at the geranium again. It was pretty— A large car drew up to the curb and a young man got out. "You just stay in the car," he said to a young lady in a beautiful fur jacket. I’ll only be a minute!" "I don't understand you, Bill," the young lady said sharply. "You pass up all the nice florist shops in town and come way over here to this two-by-four joint. They probably have never even seen an orchid." "Oh, but I'm not shopping for orchids, my love," the young man laughed. "You wait—it's a surprise!" "Well," she announced, "if you think I'm going to the Van Pelt dinner without orchids, you can just start looking for another date." "Hold everything," said the young man gayly. "We'll get you some orchids in town on the way back. This is just a special whim of mine." He hurried into the store and Susie almost choked as she saw Mr. Cowan come to the window and lift out the precious white lily. She wanted to scream, but she couldn't—she couldn't do anything but clutch Pudge's hand and stare. In a minute the young man came out with the flower all wrapped in green paper. He made an elaborate bow and handed it to the young lady through the open window of the car. "A potted plant?" she exclaimed lifting a pair of carefully plucked eyebrows. "What on earth do you expect me to do with a common potted plant—just sit here and hold it—or give it to Gladys Van Pelt to use as a centerpiece?" "It's not a common potted plant," said the young man defensively. "It's a beautiful lily—exactly the same kind that I have been buying at this same two-by-four joint as you call it, on the evening before Mother's Day for fourteen years. I bought one for Mother when I was fifteen with the first money I ever earned. That was in the good old days when a dollar looked as big to me as ten thousand of them do now. Mother was so thrilled with that first lily that I've kept getting the same kind year after year. She wouldn't have traded them for a whole car- load of orchids. And now this year no earthly gift can reach her—and I thought maybe you wouldn't mind if I bought a lily for you for Mother's Day—just because I love you and just because of the sweet mother you're going to be—" The young lady sat up very straight and held the pot distastefully. "Look, Bill," she said curtly, "you've got this all wrong. I'm never going to be a mother—" Susie saw the young man's mouth fly open. "Well, don't look so shocked," the girl continued irritably. ""Anybody'd think that was a crime. You asked me if I'd marry you—not if I'd tie myself down to a cradle. If you think I'm going to lose my figure and my health and good times just to have a lot of sniveling little dirty-faced youngsters like those—" Susie blushed. There was no denying that Pudge's face was dirty— it usually was—and maybe even her own—you can't always be looking in the mirror when you're only nine. "Now, Doris, you're just upset," the young man said, getting into the car. Of course you want to be a mother. Every girl does. It was clumsy of me, though. Forgive me. I should have known enough to wait and buy the lily after there was a little high chair highness—" "There aren't going to be any high chair highnesses!" the girl snapped as she stepped out of the car. "Not for me! Call me a taxi, and I'll go on to the dinner alone. The smell of this potted plant is nauseating!" She set it down on the running board, and stripping a ring from her finger, she handed it to the young man who seemed to be in a stupor. "I'll find me a man RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 295 who thinks children are a bore—and you can take your lily and go find someone who appreciates such things. As for me," she added, making a motion to stop a taxi that was cruising by, "give me orchids or give me orchids—and I don't mean 'or kids'." With a toss of her head she stepped into the taxi and was gone. The young man stared after her in blank dismay. Susie stared after in disbelief—and Pudge just stared. SUSIE didn't want to be rude, but she had to act immediately. It was almost six and the store would be closing. The young man looked as if he might sit and stare into space for hours. On the other hand, he might suddenly start up the car and leave—and the lily was on the running board! "Mister," she said weakly. The young man didn't seem to hear. She went closer. "Mister—" He looked at her blankly. Her words tripped over each other. 'We wanted to buy that lily for Mommy, but we didn't have enough money—but it's awfully 'portant because Mommy is sick and it will make her well. The doctor says only an op'ration can make her walk, but the Sunday School teacher says a lady touched. Jesus' robe, and she was all well, and the lily is so white—like the robe, I mean, and I—I—that is, I just know Mommy would be well if she could only touch it—and we was wondering if you'd sell it to us for fifty-nine cents—on account of the pretty lady not wanting it, I mean—We could pay you the rest later if you'd tell us—" She paused. The young man didn't seem to have heard her. There was a long silence, and then the 296 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE young man seemed to come to life. "Sure, sure," he said, "you can have it. It's not of any use to me now. Just take it." Susie's mouth fell open in surprise. "B-but you'll let us pay you the fifty-nine cents, won't you? I mean—if we don't pay you for it, it will be all from you and not from Pudge and me at all." A slow smile spread over the young man's face. He got out of the car and picked up the plant from the running board. "Okay," he said, "first you pay me the fiftynine cents, and then I'll give you the flower. That's how they do it in the stores." Susie gave him the fifty-nine cents —all hot and sweaty from being clutched so tightly in her hand—and he put the beautiful white lily into her waiting arms. "Oh, thank you!" she said, and although she tried very hard not to cry—on account of what the lady had said about sniveling kids—the tears just brimmed up in her eyes. Sometimes when you're happy, you just have to snivel! DURING the two-block walk to their home all her good intentions about keeping the lily until morning completely vanished. What was the use, she argued, of Mommy having to stay sick any longer than was necessary? She carried it in and set it on the stand beside the bed, and Pudge shouted, '"S'prise! S'prise!" Mommy pulled back the green tissue and looked at it. "Oh, how beautiful!" she said. "It's the loveliest flower I have ever seen! Where on earth did you get it?": "It's magic, Mommy," Susie said, her black eyes snapping with excitement. "Touch it! It will make you well!" "Oh, no," Mommie said gently. "Flowers that are so fragile will die if they're touched." "But not this one," explained Susie earnestly. 'Then she stood first on one leg then the other while she told Mommy all about the Sunday School teacher and Christ and the purse and the soap contest and the young man and the lady who didn't want to marry him—and she explained how the lily was partly from the young man, too, because she and Pudge had only fifty-nine cents between them. As Mommy listened she started to cry. Susie had known she would understand. "So now you can have your 'druthers', Mommy," Susie finished. "Now you can be well. 'Touch it, Mommy —then tomorrow we can go on a picnic." 7 Mommy's face was very white— almost as white as the lily. Silently she prayed for faith as clear and as shining as that of her little girl. She prayed for wisdom that those trusting dark eyes might not be clouded with disbelief. Slowly she reached out and touched a tiny white bud that was just opening. As she did so, her hand came in contact with something cold and hard. Startled she looked more closely, and there around the tiniest bud was a diamond solitaire, twinkling and sparkling in the light—holding the promise of health and happiness! Susie cocked her head to one side. "Can you walk now, Mommy?" she asked. "Walk?" echoed Pudge. "Not tonight," said Mommy, whose face had become almost transparent with the thrill of the miracle that had just taken place. "But very soon," she promised, "perhaps when school is out—" "And we can go on picnics?" Susie asked, clapping her hands. "Yes, and to the zoo," Mommy RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 297 answered, pinching Pudge's fat cheek. "How did Jesus make the flower magic, Mommy?" asked Susie thoughtfully. "He made it out of a child's faith and love and work and honesty," Mommy spoke very softly. "It is the most wonderful flower of all. What woman could trade it for orchids?" OH HEARTS BEREAVED By Winnifred M. Tibbs Be comforted, and know that God is just. He knows the pain the parting brings From those we love; but they are His And when He calls them home It is His will, and we must yield And thankful be for knowledge He has given, that death is not the end But the beginning of a better, Happier life, where time's not gauged By days nor years, But by eternal law. Be brave, oh hearts bereaved, And keep the faith; For then, when we are called, We, too, shall live again And mingle with the ones we loved so well, Throughout Eternity. Be reconciled and wait! May First, National Child Health Day By Bernice Moss HE health of the child is the power of the nation." This 1939 slogan for National Child Health Day on May first, so proclaimed each year by the President of the United States, challenges all citizens to serious consideration which will result in a fitting observance of this day. May first gives us an opportunity to seriously evaluate the health programs which we as individuals, families and communities sponsor in the interest of the child, and to call to the attention of all the needs for further effort. We should ask ourselves many questions: Are the children in our community properly fed, housed, and protected? Are mothers and infants provided with medical and nursing care? Is communicable disease _ controlled through immunization and isolation programs? Are we making adequate provision for handicapped children? Do we supply pure milk, pure water, and pure food to our people? Are there adequate playgrounds and effective recreation programs for our children? Is our home conducive to the best development of the child? Are we. Helping each child to attain his most wholesome physical, mental, social, and spiritual development? We should ask ourselves these questions and many more, and on the basis of such serious evaluation plan a program of improvement for our homes and communities. This year the responsibility for organizing the observance of May Day—Child Health Day in the State of Utah—was delegated to the Relief Society by the State Board of Health. A state-wide committee was organized under the leadership of Marcia K. Howells, general chairman. This committee represented the organizations, societies, and state departments most concerned with child health problems. The general committee drew up plans and suggestions concerning fitting observance of Child Health Day and sent them to hundreds of interested persons. A week of observance, rather than one day, was suggested, and all groups invited to participate in effective community programs under the leadership of the local Relief Societies. Programs naturally vary with communities. Some of the following methods have proved and are proving effective: church meetings devoted to health, public lectures, public forums, radio programs, newspaper articles, moving pictures, school activities including May Day festivals, health parades, assembly programs, plays, pageants, etc., demonstrations, window exhibits, community surveys to determine needs and plan programs. Such a concerted attack on the problem of child health is bound to result in an awakened consciousness on the part of our citizenry. When this consciousness is translated into effective planning and effective action in our homes, schools, and communities, we will have marched far toward the achievement of our goal. Calling All Remnant Fans By Kathleen B. Nelson AT the remnant counter Serena stood, a neatly dressed woman with a happy, thoughtful face. The silvery wave of hair against the soft rose accent on her smart little hat looked like an award of merit. Her eyes were meditative, her mouth relaxed in pleasant contemplation, as she surveyed the fabrics spread before her. She did not paw them over. Her eyes did the probing. After a careful summing up, she removed her gloves thoughtfully and reached for just the piece she wanted. She noted the price, the amount; her fingers caressed its softness; her eyes dilated over its color; her mind said, '"Marie will be lovely in a blue dress. I'll make it plain, with good lines—just a girdle of rose-buds and perhaps a handful scattered on the skirt." She laid the piece over her left arm. Another moment's contemplation. Then she picked up a picce of soft, pink flannel, this time a bit uncertainly. Suddenly her imagination made of it a baby blanket, and it, too, took its place on the left arm. "My crochet hook and some white yarn will turn that trick," she thought triumphantly. Suddenly her eyes popped and, as she held up a piece of rosy eiderdown, unreserved pleasure was written on her face. "Just big enough for a bathrobe for Teena. Won't she love it? I'll finish the edges with white yarn, too, and make a cord and tassles and embroider a white duck on the pocket." Next it was an ungainly bulk of silkaline her fingers caressed. "I'll cover my worn blankets and make a quilt for Mrs. Casoli. With that big family she can use it." At irregular intervals she made fresh discoveries until both arms were well upholstered with them. The girl at the counter was either a discerning person or else she was held fast' and speechless in an enchantment of the 'older woman's weaving. Not once did the girl disturb Serena's fruitful reverie by lifting her finger or raising her voice. A sigh of satisfaction as Serena contemplated her quarry; a smile at the girl as signal that the hunt was over, broke the spell so that she could make the required motions with her pencil and sales pad. On paper the sale might have been in code for all the secrets that it held. 1 Rem. 2.20 1 Rem,...60 1 Rem .85 1 Rem, 1.60 etc. Serena, taking it to recheck, read it thus: Dress for Marie Baby blanket for Margaret Bath robe for Teena Quilt for Mrs, Casoli Breakfast set for the girl at Simpson's Nightgown for Jennie New pillows for Ted's room Two blouses "Charge or cash?" the salesgirl intoned. "Oh, I'll pay for them." Serena presented a check. It was from her son in New York, enclosed with a note: "Please, Mother dear, buy something that you want—something that will make you happy." If he had seen her face as she took her treasure from the clerk, he would have known she had followed his instructions to the letter. The Body's Need For Vitamins By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe, Home Economics Department, University of Utah The unique role of vitamins in general, and the specific functions of vitamin A were reviewed in the preceding article. The present article will consider vitamin B. VITAMIN B OR THIAMIN Investigation OR centuries the disease, now known as beriberi, was prevalent in the Orient before it became generally known in our Western civilization. Beriberi had attracted world attention when in 1878-1883 'Takaki, a medical officer of the Japanese navy, became convinced that the disease was not due to infection but to a nutritional deficiency. At this time the entire Japanese navy numbered 5,000 men, and out of this number 1,000 to 2,000 Or 20 to 40 per cent were sick each year with this disease. Takaki succeeded in changing the navy ration and practically irradicated the disease, but he was unable to give any explanation of the astonishing effect of the changed diet. We now know that the new diet contained vitamin B. Research followed rapidly in an attempt to discover the substance or substances responsible for such dramatic effects. It was soon determined that this "unknown substance" was an organic material appearing naturally in certain foods as well as in the water in which these foods were soaked or cooked. Finally in 1936 the chemical nature of this substance was determined. Now it can be synthesized and appears on the market in various forms. FUNCTIONS OF VITAMIN B IN NUTRITION Vitamin B Prevents the Disease Beriberi Beriberi is a disease that effects the nervous system. There are two forms of this disease, the dry and the wet. In dry beriben there is a great wasting of the muscle tissue, loss of sensation in the skin and fi nally paralysis of the nerves beginning in the legs and gradually extending to the upper portions of the body. In wet beriberi fluids collect in the tissues of the arms, legs and finally in the trunk. The heart enlarges greatly and death results from heart failure. This disease develops slowly in human beings living on a diet low in vitamin B, but a diet completely lacking in it will produce the disease rapidly. This disease can be cured with dramatic rapidity through the administration of vitamin B. The experimental animals respond to this treatment in a few hours and are completely recovered in a few days. In human beings the recovery is slower but still very dramatic. Vitamin B treatment of severe infantile beriberi is described as "almost miraculous". The most marked effect of the administration of vitamin B is its effect on the heart, which quickly returns to its normal size. Beriberi often follows cases of prolonged fevers where the effects of a diet deficient in vitamin B are more striking. Maintenance of Appetite Much that has been learned concerning the vitamins has been through animal experimentation. The vitamin B deficiency disease in animals is called polyneuritis. Very often young experimental animals on a deficient vitamin B diet will die before they develop symptoms of the nerve disease. Older animals will live for a much longer time and will show marked symptoms of the disease. 'The experimental animals soon lose their appetite. Upon the administration of vitamin B, the appetite quickly returns and the animals become normal. Doctors often find this disease in mild forms in children's wards in hospitals, the most common symptom being lack of appetite. Dr. B. R. Hoobler' of Detroit has observed that "when about one-half teaspoon of brewer's yeast concentrate was given daily to infants suspected of receiving an insufficient amount of B the appetite increased and a certain type of stiffness in the arms, legs and neck disappeared." He cites an example of one infant given this treatment that "changed from a thin, pale, spastic, restless, whining infant, refusing part of its formula, to a happy, rosy-cheeked, smiling baby whose appetite seemed never to be com- *Dr. B. R. Hoobler, Detroit: Syinptomatology of Vitamin B Deficiency in Infants, Hour. Amer. Med. Assoc., Vol. 73 (1922). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY 301 completely satisfied, and whose gain in weight was remarkable." Effect Upon Digestion The gastro-intestinal tract (the stomach and the intestines) very soon show disturbances in the digestion, absorption and assimilation of food on a deficiency B diet. The muscles of these organs lose their tone so that the movement of food in the stomach and along the intestinal tract is slowed up. Also the vitality of the mucous lining of these organs is reduced so that there is less resistance against infection. Studies" made on human _ beings suffering with chronic arthritis—a disease in which digestion is often impaired — showed that patients "who had very greatly relaxed and sluggish intestinal tracts, made remarkable improvement when large doses of vitamin B in the form of yeast concentrate or wheat germ were administered." It has been observed in many cases in which people are really not ill, but who are always taking something to relieve a "sour stomach" or a "bad taste" in the mouth and are suffering from headache and constipation, that there has been a marked clearing up of these symptoms when a sufficient amount of vitamin B was added to their diet. Vitainin B and Growth IN experimental work with both animal and human subjects, it has been proved that vitamin B is necessary for normal growth and development. White albino rats weaned "Drs. A. A. Fletcher and S. Graham at the University of 'Toronto Hospital. 302 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at 28 days of age from a mother who has had an adequate diet, and then put on a diet adequate in every respect except vitamin B, will continue to grow for a few days until they have used up the small amount that was stored in their bodies. At this time they begin to lose weight, the spinal column becomes misshapen with a decided hump. Such animals will die in four or five weeks. If vitamin B is added to their diet before they are too far gone, they will show signs of feeling better within a few hours; they will become interested in their food, all signs of paralysis disappear, and the rapidity with which they grow is startling. White albino rats in the animal laboratory of the Home Economics Department of the University of Utah were given a vitamin B defcient diet for eight weeks at which time they weighed less than at the beginning of the experiment and' were completely paralyzed and could not stand up. They were given a few drops of milk containing yeast. In three hours they acted as if they were just waking up. Repeated doses of milk and yeast were given. The next morning these rats were walking around. In a couple of days they appeared normal and began to grow. In order to show the effect of vitamin B in the diet of infants, Dr. J. H. Dennett of New York City observed a group of babies between the ages of five and ten months who were fed on modified cow's milk plus the orange juice and cod liver oil. These babies grew slowly or ceased entirely to gain weight, "they become fretful, flabby and pale, and either lose their appetite or fail to assimilate their food properly." To determine whether or not the lack of vitamin B was the cause of the trouble the doctor fed a large number of these babies a preparation made from wheat germ and added it to the milk formula. These babies showed a remarkable change within a few months. Their appetites returned, their muscles became firm, their color was good, and their gain in weight was considerably above the average for their age. To see whether older children on a more varied diet would be benefited by more vitamin B, Dr. A. F. Morgan of the University of California, with Miss M. M. Barry, fed a group of undernourished school children between the ages of eleven and thirteen years, two rolls daily as supplements to their school lunch. The group was divided, half of them getting two rolls made with 50 per cent wheat germ, the other half receiving an equal number of rolls made entirely from white flour. The increase in weight of the wheat germ group was approximately three times that of the white rolls group. These experiments show conclusively the effects of a diet containing liberal amounts of vitamin B on growth and development. The presence of liberal amounts of vitamin B are also necessary for successful reproduction and lactation.
NATURE OF VITAMIN B
VITAMIN B is soluble in water and is widely distributed in natural foods. The richest sources are yeast and whole cereals. Vitamin B is found in the bran and germ of cereals. Among vegetables, dried beans and peas, green asparagus, sweet corn, parsnips, turnip greens, and watercress are good sources. All whole cereals, nuts and meat contain considerable amounts. Milk is not a rich source of vitamin B. Fruits are decidedly low in vitamin B content. Vitamin B is not destroyed in the ordinary processes of household cookery. Cooking at the boiling temperature, roasting or oven baking or pressure cooking for a period of time sufficient to cook any of the ordinary foods, will not destroy the vitamin B to any considerable extent. Vitamin B is readily destroyed if soda or any alkali is added to the food. The greatest loss of vitamin B values results in the mechanical preparation of foods or by throwing away the water in which foods are cooked. Often in the manufacture of foods such as cereal preparations, the outer coatings as well as the germ are removed, and with them goes the vitamin B values. Drying or freezing do not appear to affect the vitamin B values of foods. If care is used in the selection of foods containing vitamin B values, and if they are prepared for use and cooked so as to save the water soluble B, one can provide sufficient vitamin B. It will, however, be necessary to use whole cereals and nuts and use the water in which vegetables have been cooked.
VITAMIN B REQUIREMENT
Much experimental work is being done to determine the amount of vitamin B that is needed by the body. The American Medical Association suggests 50 international units daily for infants and up to 200 I. U. for adults. Since there is no evidence of harmful effect from excess vitamin B, one may safely feed more than the suggested amounts. The vitamin B requirement increases with the rate of growth and with increased energy expenditure, so all rapidly growing children and adults working hard physically should receive liberal amounts of vitamin B ranging from 300 to 600 I. U. daily.
The Vitamin B Values of Foods (Revised March, 1938)
The average vitamin B values per 100 grams or 3.6 ounces given in international units.
Food Units Almonds 50 Asparagus, green 120 Asparagus, bleached 50 Bacon 89 Beans, dried, Pinto 500 Beans, Kidney 150 Beans, Lima, fresh 75 Beans, Lima, dry 100 Buckwheat 110 Cabbage 26 Carrots 25 Chicken 80 Corn, sweet 103 Cornmeal, yellow 70 Cornmeal, white 100 Dates 25 Eggs 100 Farina 105 Filberts 206 Flour, white 15 Flour, graham 106 Flour, rye 100 Flour, whole wheat 150 Hazel nuts 150 Hominy, white 66 Hominy, yellow 66 Lamb 100 Lettuce, green 25
*Avitaminosis, Eddy and Dalldorf.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 304
Food Units Lettuce, bleached 17 Liver, beef 100 Liver, calf 50 Meat, average 35 Milk, malted 500 Molasses, cane 100 Molasses, beet 160 Oats 70 Oranges 28 Orange juice 30 Oysters 75 Parsnips 60 Pears 25 Peas, green 25 Peas, dried 70 Pecans 50 Pineapples 25 Pineapple juice 37 Pork, lean 180 Potato, sweet 35 Prunes, dried 50 Rice, brown 55 Rice polish 300 Salmon 25 Sausage, Bologna 175 Sausage, Pork 115 Soy beans 130 Spinach 30 Tomatoes, green 25 Tomatoes, ripe 24 Walnuts 60 Watercress 30 Wheat germ 600 Wheat bran 100 Yeast, Fleischmann 2000
ARE MY BABE OF YESTERYEAR By Essie Bateman Sisk
My little babe of yesteryear Has grown so gracefully tall, It's hard for me to realize She was ever a child at all.
She's all I ever dreamed or hoped That she might some day be; And Oh! I'm glad that God saw fit To trust her care to me.
The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHARACTERS AND Brief SYNOPSIS—3RD INSTALLMENT
FOURSQUARE, tall and gray, the Carey mansion stood on the shores of Puget Sound, towered over by the remnants of great fir forests. But its grandeur had fallen into decay now, as had its owner, "MISS BRILL" CAREY, gray-haired spinster, who made a meager living as a seamstress. Miss Brill had overdone her frail strength the day she had gone to a wealthy friend of her father's to ask for a job for her lovely young niece, red-haired NELL CAREY, who had ambitions to be an artist, but nothing to pursue them on. Her aunt was determined to provide this opportunity and in so doing, perhaps break up the girl's halfhearted engagement to FRED NAGLE, a materialistic young chicken farmer, who valued money too much to satisfy Miss Brill's more idealistic conception of what the husband of her adored Nell should be. On their way back from an early movie, Nell and Fred come upon Miss Brill beside the road, dazed and exhausted. She tells them of Nell's chance to study art. Fred is angry, but before he has a chance to voice his protests, Miss Brill has a stroke. Faced with the problem of giving up the career she has in sight, Nell promises Fred she will marry him at the end of summer if her aunt does not recover. Secretly she is aghast at the idea. Told by the doctor that the old lady's recovery is doubtful, the girl resolves to release Philander Maddox from his promise of a job and face the future at home. Old Philander Maddox shocks her by revealing that she is no relation to Miss Brill. Distressed by this news, Nell rushes out of the room, meeting at the Maddox entrance exotic, white-haired Miss Sally Delavan, who takes unusual notice of the girl. On the road home Nell passes a stranger coming from the Carey house, but is too absorbed in the new aspect of the problem of the duty she owes Miss Brill to notice him. She knows now that she, a stranger, has been taken into the heart and home of her "aunt", to whose care she must more than ever devote herself. Even if she must let Fred help her!
CHAPTER FOUR
THE morning wind blew chill off the Sound, though the sun was bright in a cloudless sky, and Nell shivered as she carried her weeding tools out to the vegetable garden behind the Alaska house. She would be warm enough, she knew, when she started annihilating quack grass. The garden had been forgotten these last few exciting days. The girl wore no hat, and the sun flashed mahogany-red lights from her lovely hair as her head nodded to the rhythm of the hoe. On the road up the slope a motor droned, stopped. Nell couldn't see the car. It was Fred, no doubt. He often drove down from Maple Hill after the morning work in the coops was done. She worked on a few minutes, then dropped the hoe, went softly through the corn up to the end of the cabin platform. A man with eyes covered by dark glasses was looking through the window into the Alaska house.
"What do you want?" Nell demanded angrily. She looked at him suspiciously. "I'll bet you are the man who nearly scared Mrs. Kelly speechless."
The man turned. He was tall and slender, and the face behind the enormous dark glasses was too pale for a healthy man. "H'm, so there is life in the old place. I'd begun to think I'd strayed into the decade before last." His voice was irritable, his mouth petulant.
Nell's gray eyes blazed. "You might have knocked at the door and found out. Or perhaps you are in the habit of looking into windows and snooping about places."
He laughed briefly. "Oh, I say! I haven't the energy to quarrel with you. I want to rent this dingus," he indicated the Alaska house, "and I want it at once."
Nell was shocked to the marrow by the mere thought. "Oh, no, it isn't for rent! Not possibly! So if that is all you want, I'll go back to my work." She started back through the corn again. The idea! Rent the Alaska house and Miss Brill would certainly have another stroke.
"Hey! You with the green smock and bad manners! Can't we talk it over? You don't even know what I'll pay," the tall man called angrily, striding after her.
Nell turned. "I said the house isn't for rent. That means it isn't for rent, in the King's English." She was so angry now her cheeks were scarlet, her hands shook. The very nerve of him!
"And why," demanded the man with equal heat, "isn't it for rent? I want the house. It's exactly what I need. I'd like to know just why it's too precious to rent." He was smilingly sarcastic now.
Nell longed to slap him hard, just once. "My grandfather built this place, just like his home in Alaska. It's filled with all sorts of relics, and he loved it better than any spot on earth. Since he died we've never used it. It's—it's sort of a shrine," Nell told him. That ought to convince him.
The man listened impatiently. "Nonsense," he said briefly, "I wouldn't eat the place. Would you mind letting me talk to the owner?"
"I can't," Nell said stubbornly, "she's ill."
The man shrugged and started for the house. Nell ran after him. He must be insane. No sane person acted like this. She was right on his heels, protesting, when he rapped on the open kitchen door.
Mary Kelly, working at the stove, saw the dark glasses and cried out, "You're that prowler! Get out of here or I'll have the law on you."
The determined intruder did not get out. "I'm sorry, madam, but I simply can't get any place with this young person here," he indicated the pursuing Nell with a wave of the hand. "All I want is to rent your cabin down by the water, although anybody would think I'd come to commit arson, at least."
Mary Kelly dried her hands. "She heard you," she said, nodding toward Miss Brill's open door, "come on in before she starts fretting."
So the three of them trooped into the invalid's room, and Nell, white with anger at this high-handedness, explained the offer to Miss Brill. When she was through, and ready to put this upstart man in his place, she was astounded to see the old lady indicate that she'd take the offer. And Nell had, perforce, to accept the money for the advance rent from this repugnant person, who bowed ironically over her hand and murmured, "Sorry, I take the decision on this round. Better luck next time."
SURELY life was hard enough right now without having a disagreeable man like this under one's very nose for three long months. "At least," said Nell to Miss Brill, "it'll pay Mary Kelly." And Miss Brill looked grimly satisfied. So that was why, Nell thought, humbled. She'd even let a stranger tramp around the Alaska house to save me worry. Impulsively she kissed the old lady's cheek and ran out of the room, flushing. They had never been demonstrative of their love, had Nell and Miss Brilliant.
She ought to like that man, Nell told herself, again at her hoe. The money was a life-saver. But she didn't. He wasn't young enough to interest her as a man. He looked all of thirty-five. And his arrogance, his supreme nerve, and his sarcastic manner! No, she did not like the new tenant of the Alaska house.
Mary Kelly's boy, who delivered Seattle papers about the countryside, whistled from the road. "Hey! I've got an extra Times today. Maybe your aunt would like it." He tossed it into the yard and rode away on his bicycle.
Nell picked up the paper and returned to the back steps. She might as well look it over before taking it in. A daily paper was a luxury the Careys did not often afford. On a back page a small item jostled the steamship arrivals for space. Nell read it and her face became radiant, as if a light had suddenly been turned on behind it. She read the item again, carefully, word for word. It seemed too wonderful to be true. An art scholarship, right in Seattle! Three of them, really—
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 307
for the first, second and the third best paintings. She had a month in which to paint a picture to enter in the contest. She would put everything that was in her into that picture; she would make it win the first prize—a year at the Marks School. And the victory would make Miss Brill better.
Excitedly, the girl ran into the kitchen and thrust the paper to Mary Kelly. "Johnny left it," she said, and stood on a chair to rummage in the high cupboard where she stored her few canvases, her tubes of precious paint.
Mrs. Kelly already had the paper open at the society section and was settled down to a few vicarious minutes with the world of greatness and fashion. "For-ever-more," she exclaimed, "Miss Sally Delavan is home from her world cruise and has"—she quoted, "'opened her palatial home on Queen Anne Hill'."
From her perch Nell looked down into the four-column pictured face of this lady with the familiar name. A lovely face framed in beautiful white hair! A face with enormous, bored gray eyes, and a peevish, lovely mouth.
"I've seen her," she said impulsively, "at the Maddoxes. Is she so important?"
"Important!" said Mary Kelly, who knew her social register. "She's the daughter of Francis X. Delavan, the big lumber man that was. And she travels the world over, like a witch was after her, that restless she is, and comes home to the big red stone house on the hill every so often when there's no place else to go. All alone she is, with all her family gone before her."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 308
"The poor thing," said Nell, "but with all that money, and so pretty, even with white hair—"
"It wasn't always white. I remember her when it was the color of yours, and the house was full of suitors. Why say," Mary Kelly exclaimed, "she looked the very image of you yourself as a young girl. Only more flashing and snobbish, if I may say it." And the large woman compared the girl and the pictured Miss Delavan with lively interest for a moment.
But Nell had turned back to her painting materials, her picture already taking shape in her eager mind. It must be a wonderful picture, with the magic and mystery of the early-morning Sound in it. It must win for her—that year that would be balm to Miss Brill. And in the back of her mind was another thought, that here was a reprieve if she won. She needn't be married—yet. Firmly Nell smothered this ungrateful thought. "I love him. Surely I do. He's so good, so dependable. It's just that I'm too young, that I won't be happy until I've tried this thing out." She piled brushes and canvases in her arms and jumped to the floor.
"That man in black glasses, from the Alaska house I guess you might say now, is movin' in," announced Mary Kelly. "I must say he didn't lose any time."
Nell frowned, her enthusiasm dampened for the moment. That man was like black clouds in an otherwise sunny sky.
(To be continued)
LITTLE BONNET OF BLUE By Jessie J. Dalton
Little bonnet of blue, with your frill of white lace— A dainty sweet frame for a dear little face; Blue eyes filled with laughter, Mouth a rose's pink fold, And hair just a promise, A whispering of gold.
Little bonnet of blue, with your frill of white lace— You have lain for so long in this dim-scented place, Beside these wee dresses— Worn and wasted they seem; But you, little bonnet, Still halo a dream.
HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon
MAY—Oh the joy of a spring day when birds and flowers and all things beautiful are ours.
MRS. JOSEPH P. KENNEDY, wife of the Ambassador to Great Britain, is a true exponent of motherhood. She was especially proud when Pope Pius XII personally presented each of her nine children a rosary after the coronation.
QUEEN GERALDINE of Albania presented an heir to the throne April 5. Almost simultaneous with the joyous event the guns of Mussolini claimed the throne for Italy.
EVE CURIE, biographer of her mother, discoverer of radium, has been given an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters from Mills College.
ELISE B. BARB, 23, of New York, is a modern Portia, with a choice for criminal law. In her first case she appeared as counsel for a negro charged with murder.
LOUISE A. BOYD of California, first woman to be elected a member of the American Society of Photogrammetry, has been signally honored for her photograph surveys of the far north. Denmark named a part of Greenland, Boydland; Norway made her a knight of St. Olaf; France, a chevalier of the Legion of Honor.
MARY SULLIVAN, director of Police Woman's Bureau of New York City, with her courageous helpers, play their part in the Missing Persons Bureau, in the narcotics, shoplifters and pickpockets squads, also obtaining evidence against fortune tellers and others occupied in unlawful activities. Her aid is often sought by police in foreign countries.
LI YA-CHING, Chinese woman pilot, has secured money to train women pilots for an aerial ambulance corps; the Polish women are training to serve in the trenches; Albanian women have an auxiliary force to the king's army; Osa Johnson, English woman pilot, is urging the training of women pilots. Are these things ominous forecasts?
ELIZA W. SALM and co-workers from Hawaii added interest and color to the recent Relief Society conference held in Salt Lake City.
MRS. HATTIE CRITCHLOW JENSEN of Salt Lake has again entered the field of contemporary verse in the daily press. This recognition of Utah's literary women is most gratifying.
DOROTHY CANFIELD FISHER'S new novel "Seasoned Timber" is predicted to be one of the most important books of the year. "The Tree of Liberty" by Elizabeth Page is a marvelous novel of early American history, while "Through Embassy Eyes" by Martha Dodd, "Danger Signal" by Phyllis Bottome, and "The Patriot" by Pearl Buck are outstanding books of 1939.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth
LOUISE YATES ROBISON President AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor KATE M. BARKER Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD Jennie B. Knight Nettie D. Bradford Emma A. Empey Marcia K. Howells Annie Wells Cannon Emeline Y. Nebeker Lalene H. Hart Janet M. Thompson Cora L. Bennion Belle S. Spafford Amy Whipple Evans Donna Durrant Sorensen Rosannah C. Irvine Vivian R. McConkie Ida P. Beal Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Manager - - - - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XXVI MAY, 1939 No. 5
O—EDITORIAL—O
The Spirit Penetrateth
SO engrossed are people as a general rule in the mundane affairs of life that occasions are rare indeed when souls are deeply stirred with the finer emotions, "when the spirit penetrateth men's hearts and giveth them understanding". When these occasions do come, real values rush to the fore; life takes on new meaning, its purposes seem lofty, and in our hearts are born new resolves. Such an occasion was the opening General Session of our Relief Society Conference. From the opening number, O Morn of Beauty, rendered by our glorious Relief Society Singing Mothers, to the benediction minds were not only enlightened but souls were nourished. Rich in words of wisdom, beautiful with song, abundant with spirituality, the meeting reached its climax in the simple, sincere testimony "that God lives, that He hears and answers prayers, that Jesus is the Son of the Living God" borne by a sister from a far-away island home. The aloha of our Island sisters extended by Sister Salm, President of the Oahu Stake Relief Society, to all the Relief Society sisters of the world met a responsiveness in the hearts of everyone. Truly we experienced the power of the Gospel to make us one "even as the Father and I are one". The beautifully rendered Sanctus which followed Sister Salm's testimony, the concluding words of which are "Glory be to Thy Holy name for ever and evermore" left hearts touched and eyes moist. Nowhere in the world could be found a choicer group of women than those assembled at our Conference. Privileged women are they. Enjoying the light of the Gospel, their opportunities are abundant; likewise, their responsibilities are great. Their power as a leaven in a world sorely in need can scarcely be estimated. In closing the Conference President Robison's blessings, her earnest desire for the welfare of the women of the Church, and her deep concern that they fully measure up to their opportunities and responsibilities found an answering echo in the hearts of all. With the purposes of the great Organization to which we
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 311
belong redefined and reemphasized, with our souls touched with love and the spirit of the Almighty, with the prayer and blessing of a divinely chosen and inspired leader, future accomplishments should be great; our lives should enrich, elevate and bless the lives of thousands.
President Robison is Called to Washington
THE Relief Society organization is honored in having President Louise Y. Robison invited by Secretary of Labor Frances D. Perkins to accept committee membership in a Conference on Children in a Democracy to be held at the White House, April 26, 1939. This Conference is being organized under the direction of President Roosevelt because of his conviction that a society founded upon democratic principles finds both its aim and its security in the happiness and well being of its people, and especially its children. The Conference aims to develop practical suggestions as to ways in which we in the United States may give greater security to childhood and a larger measure of opportunity to youth. President Roosevelt is to serve as Honorary Chairman of the Conference and Frances D. Perkins is to serve as Chairman. This will be a working conference. Its membership will comprise a limited number of men and women from all parts of the country whose experience prepares them for active service on committees and panels of consultants. They will be charged with the preparation of material for presentation to the Conference. The first session will be held at the White House, April 26, 1939, with morning, afternoon, and evening meetings. After a period of committee work the final conference will be held early in 1940. We are happy and proud to have President Robison's ability and interest in child welfare recognized to the extent that she has been called upon to render her services with a few other outstanding men and women of the nation.
New Series
"Woman As An Interpreter of the Faith" is the first of a series of six articles by Maude Beeley Jacobs, which will discuss Motherhood, Friendship, Service, Education and The Challenge of Today.
MORMON HANDICRAFT Highlights
ARE you acquainted with Mormon Handicraft? Do you know its worth and fully appreciate the service it can render you and your family? Not only is it establishing some fine community projects, but it is offering you quality articles beautifully and artistically made such as might be found in Bonwit Teller's, one of New York's exclusive shops, yet costing no more than machine-made things of the same quality. The committee is doing everything in its power, such as buying material at bargain prices or in wholesale lots, to reduce the price of its finished articles to the lowest possible level and still give the makers reasonable compensation for their work. Many medium and low-priced articles are now available. Just look at the hand-knit sweaters, fairly radiating a personality of refinement and style, modeled from the very latest patterns with every stitch perfect. Some are knit of llama-down in lovely new shades and fit very snugly to the waist; others are made of snow-sheen which has the appearance of very glossy ratine. These sweaters are the last word in material and classy style—just the thing for campus and sports wear. When one of our patrons saw a dainty dusty-rose model, she could not resist ordering one for her daughter. If the shop hasn't the size or color you desire, an order will procure one for you within a few days. There are sweaters for men, too—slip-ons with or without sleeves. There is a dark maroon model of knitted worsted with a cable stitch and very masculine looking, suitable for sports wear; another is made of white cashmere sport-yarn, more dressy. Any boy would be thrilled to wear such a new spring outfit to Sunday School. There are 18 expert knitters working on this project. Come and see the samples of place cards and favors. A very gifted young woman with loads of originality makes these: dainty ladies in real party dresses, pioneer women in gingham aprons and bonnets, Indian heads, flowers and many others motifs. They are different and charming. Some of them cost only five cents each; others, three for twenty-five cents or ten cents each. Whenever you want to extend your felicitations, express your gratitude, or send your love and best wishes, see if Mormon Handicraft hasn't something which will say it just the way you would like to have it said. One hand-hammered copper bowl with a sego lily etched in the center carried a message of gratitude to a friend in New York, and this is how she answered: "If you had looked everywhere and shopped in every store, Not a gift could you have found that would have pleased me more."
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE April 4 and 5, 1939 By Julia A. F. Lund
THE Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held on April 4 and 5, 1939, in Salt Lake City, Utah, with President Louise Y. Robison presiding. The following sessions were held: An Officers' Meeting, for General, Mission and Stake Officers; four Department Meetings—Social Welfare, Work and Business, Music, and Magazine; a Reception at the Newhouse Hotel, for the combined choruses of Relief Society Singing Mothers; a Reception for Stake and Mission Officers; a Presidents' Breakfast at the Lion House; and two General Sessions in the Tabernacle. The Conference was attended by enthusiastic workers from all of the one hundred twenty-seven stakes and thirteen missions. A special delegation from Hawaii, headed by the General Secretary » Oahu Relief Society Stake President, Eliza N. Salm, was also present. It was a record-breaking attendance for Relief Society Conference. The roll call showed the following representatives: 13 mission presidents, 105 stake presidents, 148 counselors, 71 secretary-treasurers, 481 board members, making a total of 817.: The music was of outstanding excellence and was furnished by the combined choruses of Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the very able leadership of Professor Wade N. Stephens, with Dr. Frank W. Asper at the great organ, and Alta B. Cassity at the piano. The organ prelude and postlude by Lily Priestly, as well as the artistic musical contributions in the departments by Jessie E. Smith and Mrs. Dilworth Walker, added to the enjoyment of the meetings. Officers ITleeting GREETINGS President Louise Y. Robison IT IS with sincere pleasure that we meet you dear sisters in conference. There is always an element of wonder in the realization that you are here—such busy women—such splendid mothers. I realize that you have planned and worked extra long hours that your dear ones will be well cared for in your absence. Your presence indicates, too, that you have prayed as well as planned—prayed for help that you 314 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE might be of greater service to our Father's children. The program arranged for this conference has been prepared with the earnest prayer that each number will be directed by the Holy Spirit, and that you will receive the special help and inspiration which you desire. You sisters are so faithful and loyal. I sometimes wonder if the "earthen vessels" spoken of by Paul, have not become almost transparent porcelain, scarcely retarding the light of the heavenly "treasure" which God, the Father, caused to shine in your hearts. It is certain that a person who uses this treasure for the benefit of others, who has a desire to vitalize the message she carries, must become more and more the personification of the truths she would interpret. We are delighted in having six of our sisters from far away, sunny Oahu Stake with us. We welcome them and hope they will feel the love and friendship which Relief Society members have for each other. There is strength in the feeling that all over the world our Relief Society women are interested in our Organization and are praying for its success. "It is always prayertime somewhere, And across the awakening continents From shore to shore, somewhere, Our prayers are rising evermore." OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison Child Health Day HE General Board solicits your cooperation in the May Day Child Health Day program. Relief Society has been asked by the State Board of Health to be tre sponsible for the program in Utah this year. We have appointed Sister Marcia K. Howells to represent us as State Chairman. In other states you may be invited to participate. The slogan, ""The health of the child is the power of the nation," is certainly a challenge to all Relief Society women to aid this cause. Relief Society Funds We are very happy to tell you that the Presiding Bishopric has made a definite ruling on Relief Society funds in reference to the Ward Budget. The Progress of the Church for February, 1939, makes clear that there is to be no change in our methed of collecting either charity funds Or annual dues, and that our Relief Society general, charity and wheat funds are not to be placed in the Budget. We request ward presidents not to hoard general or charity funds when there are legitimate needs for their use in the wards. By legitimate needs we mean such things as the health of pregnant women and the welfare of children. Interested as we are in the missionary cause, Relief Society funds are not to be used to make gifts to missionaries if a child in the ward needs milk or medical attention to help it meet life with a stronger body and would be deprived of this aid if funds were used for other purposes. Auxiliary Enlistment Census Stake Presidents! Have the auxiljary organizations in your wards taken the general Auxiliary Enlistment Census which we asked to have made last fall? The forms were sent to you at quite an expense, thinking this census would be most helpful in the Membership Drive. The Sunday School Superintendent was placed in charge of this under the direction of the bishops with all the auxiliaries assisting. Two of the organizations were to have the original and the other two the duplicate copies of the census in order to SCENE FROM RECEPTION FOR RELIEF SOCIETY MISSION AND STAKE OFFICERS check their membership. We trust that stakes have completed this survey and used the information obtained. Preparation For Missions An appeal has come to us to urge mothers to teach their sons how to take care of themselves before they go on missions. So few know how to make their own beds, to wash their clothes or do the simplest cooking. These things are necessary to the health of the missionary. Mothers are proud of their sons or daughters when called on missions, and they 316 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE can make that mission more pleasant and the missionary more useful if they do their part in preparing these fine young people for this great experience. Although Relief Society has urged Scriptural study in the home, it is surprising how many missionaries are handicapped because they know so little about the Scriptures. One mother thought she was helping her son when she made the plea that he be not called upon to pray, saying, "It would scare him to death for he has never prayed." Surely this was not a Relief Society mother! Issuing Checks We are asking again that checks issued by Relief Society be countersigned; that the President and Secretary know the amount of funds the Organization has in the bank, and that both of these sisters sign every check. Mormon Handicraft The Mormon Handicraft has developed splendidly. We are sorry it is necessary to return some articles which do not come up to our standards. Please help the sisters to have more supervision in the wonderful native ability which they possess. In order to standardize our work and to develop greater skill in handwork the General Board has called in a group of outstanding women who act as an advisory committee. We strongly advise this same procedure in the stakes and wards. Select the most capable women in your communities and meet with them at regular periods. You will be surprised and delighted with the new ideas you will receive and the enthusiasm your groups will enjoy. Deseret Industries We are happy to tell you that the Deseret Industries are doing a fine service in supplying work—with a small wage—to people who are not otherwise employed. Will you please advise people to buy from Deseret Industries rather than from installment houses. There are fine mattresses, articles of furniture and used clothing for sale. Unlike the Bishop's Store House where merchandise is obtained on a bishop's order, the Deseret Industries sell to anyone and at very modest prices. Arrangements can be made where reliable people can pay for goods purchased, by the week or month. Alcohol Education We are greatly interested in the Church campaign for alcohol education. Brother Joseph F. Mernill, who is in charge of this work, desires to know how generally the three small books dealing with this subject have been read in your homes by all members of the family. Brother Merrill has asked the Relief Society sisters to stimulate interest in this project. Weare not required to collect money for these valuable little books, but will you stake presidents please advise your ward presidents to ask the visiting teachers to familiarize themselves with this important subject and carry the information into the homes on their regular visits. Schools are excellent mediums for — teaching children and young people the harmful effects of alcohol as a beverage. Laws in many of the states provide for this important instruction. We hope the Relief Societies will sponsor the study of the laws of your respective states, and where provision is made for such instruction that you will see that it is put into effect. Popularize it by stimulating other organizations to join with you in calling upon school RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 317 RECEIVING LINE AT RECEPTION boards and school superintendents. If young people knew what alcohol does to the body, it would certainly be a great deterrent against beginning this terribly destructive habit. Expenditures of Annual Dues To clarify a misunderstanding we would like to tell you that the money for entertainments given by the General Board does not come from the annual dues. The annual dues are spent solely for the benefit of Relief Society work. Out of the annual dues we pay for the visiting teachers' books; out of the annual dues we pay for our visits to the stakes; out of the annual dues the secretary's office sends to you our instructions and helps, but please know that annual dues are not spent for any kind of party. MY dear mission presidents, stake officers and board members, I express the appreciation of the members of the General Board for your splendid leadership. We are grate. Ful for your loyalty, for your gracious kindness to us when we visit your missions and stakes. Above all we thank our Heavenly Father for your spirituality and for the unselfish service to His children. May He continue to bless you and sustain you in your wonderful work of love, I humbly pray. 318 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SOCIAL WELFARE INSTITUTES Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin AM happy and thrilled to have the privilege of attending this meeting. Frankly speaking, I do not know of a group of people who have in their meetings such an atmosphere of faith and of spirituality as is found in the Relief Society meetings of this great Church. In the life of your first President, Sister Emma Smith, there is exemplified the spirit of this great Organization. A short time ago I was reading of the exodus of our people from the State of Missouri to Illinois. Having had the privilege of covering some of that territory, I deeply appreciate what our people passed through during that terrible experience. They were driven out in the middle of the night by the mob, with very little notice in order to make the proper preparation. Sister Emma Smith and her family were among these people. The President of the Church was in prison; and when the mob came to her home she gathered together her small children and a few household effects, put them into a wagon, and made the journey to the site of Nauvoo. After she arrived in Nauvoo and had established herself as best she could with her family, there being no one there to help her, the brethren of the Church who were not in prison said: "Now, Sister Smith, we have left behind in Missourl many of our brothers and sisters who are not able to come to Illinois because they have no means of transportation." Sister Smith said: "Take my wagon, take my team, take anything I have; go back to Missouri and bring those people to Illinois." This good woman, in her distress, had not forgotten those who were left behind; she gladly gave of the things she had to make it possible for the Saints in Missouri to come to Illinois. Then, I think, too, of the many fine contributions of this great Organization to the Church. To me you represent the true spirit of the Good Samaritan. I am sure there is no one who ever makes a call upon a Relief Society president, be she a stake or ward president, but that the call is answered—answered to the utmost in every way that will be for the good and benefit of those who may be in need of assistance. You have a wonderful program—a program that contemplates something more than just the physical problems of our people—a program that takes into consideration the matter of health, of education, the right kind of recreation, employment, community welfare, and above everything else, spiritual welfare. You have afforded to many women in the Church, and I dare say to some outside of it, opportunities and privileges that they could never have enjoyed had it not been for the Relief Society organization. I do not suppose that you will ever know how much happiness and real joy you have brought into the homes of many of the women of this Church because of the wonderful program that you have. The Church is making some progress relative to the problems that confront us. There is no use in denying that we have problems—serious problems. Only Sunday I saw a survey made in the United States, and if I remember the figures correctly, this was what was reported: Part of the population of this great country have a month's reserves on hand in case they were thrown out of employment. Another part of the population of this great country have enough reserves in the way of cash and food to carry them for six months if they were thrown out of employment. The conclusion of the survey was, that if something should happen in this country whereby all of these people who are now on relief projects, those who have some employment, and those who have reserves from one to six months were suddenly thrown out of work, over half of the population would be dependent upon the Government or someone else for assistance. So we have a great national problem; and as a Church we have our problems. The President of the Church and his Counselors have decided that the Church should solve this problem as far as our people are concerned. Some two and a half or three years ago the great Church Welfare Program was inaugurated, the first objective being to take care of our people, the physical needs to be provided, such as fuel, clothing, and food; and that has been done in a most magnificent way. The contributions of our agricultural stakes in the way of food have been most generous. The city stakes made cash contributions and contributions of clothing. By cooperating as a great Church we have been able to reach, in a large measure, the first objective.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 319
The second objective has been that we provide employment. It was never intended that the Church Welfare Program should become a dole, but rather an institution that would take care of our people temporarily, and then give them something to do, the right to earn their bread by the sweat of their brow. This is the objective we are struggling for, and I am sure in time we shall achieve it. In consideration of some of the problems in connection with the Church Welfare Program the Presiding Bishopric has made some studies. We have made surveys in some of our wards. We selected a ward that was fairly well-to-do and went over the list of families being assisted by the bishopric of the ward. This bishopric was issuing relief in the form of cash, which is contrary to the spirit of the Church Welfare Program. We discovered that in some instances individuals were receiving cash allowances in amounts ranging from $25 to $50 per month, and that in some cases they were also receiving assistance from other agencies. Then we asked that a survey be made of a ward in which there were many cases where people were on WPA projects, and many who were wholly dependent upon the ward. This particular ward was one that might be classified as not a well-to-do ward. We discovered that the bishop had fifty cases and that 29 of them were receiving assistance from outside agencies, either employed by WPA or receiving some assistance from outside agencies such as the County. So with these two surveys in our office, we wondered if it would not be a good thing
320 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to inaugurate a plan whereby we could know, whereby the bishop of the ward could know, that those who are receiving assistance from the Church were receiving it because they were worthy of it, and that there would not be any duplication of assistance. With these thoughts in mind, and after considering the matter very carefully with the General Welfare Committee, it was decided that we would inaugurate a plan whereby our sisters could receive some fundamental training in social welfare work. It was decided that we would make a beginning in the Salt Lake Region. From this Region we would branch out until eventually every stake in the Church would have in its organization some sisters who would be trained along the lines of social welfare work, that they might do this work in an intelligent, systematic way, and give this information to the bishops of the wards. In the Salt Lake Region we instituted a training class under the direction of the General Presidency of the Relief Society and their Board. This class has now met possibly five or six times; and here, under the direction of Sister Amy B. Lyman and Sister Amy W. Evans and others, these sisters are being given the fundamentals that I have already mentioned to you. In making a study of their outlines I have noted two or three points which to me are most interesting and vital in this great work of understanding people and of knowing how to approach them in connection with their most intimate problems. In this outline it is contemplated first that the individual making the survey in connection with the family shall have a complete understanding of the relationship between the Relief Society and the bishop. I should like to say a word about the bishop and his position in the Church. In the ward he is the common judge in Israel; he is the presiding authority, and all projects and movements are under his direction. The auxiliary organizations of the Church, such as the Relief Society, Primary and the Mutual Improvement Association are helps and aids to him in seeing that the Church program is carried forward. No auxiliary organization ever takes precedence over the bishop, and I am sure, Sister Robison, that there is no group in the Church who understands this more thoroughly than these loyal, devoted sisters. I presided over a ward during the darkest days of the depression. Over night there was thrust upon the shoulders of the bishopric forty families, and I want to say to you, we were lost. If it had not been for the fine Relief Society president and Relief Society organization pointing out the way, I am confident we would have had many problems that would not have been solved; we leaned entirely upon the Relief Society organization. We provided the food and clothing and all the necessities. They saw that this was properly distributed. They visited families for us and brought back reports which were most helpful. So, in connection with this work you aid the bishop. You are responsible to him. And no doubt, in connection with the project I am going to present to you in a moment, he will direct your efforts and prescribe more or less the plan he wants followed in his ward. In connection with this training class, there are some fundamentals which are most pertinent to the successful carrying on of this important welfare work. First, the ability of the worker to keep strictly confidential the affairs of the people being helped. There are individuals in the Church, who because of their pride, hate to go to the bishop and confess that they are in need, but when such is the case and the bishop calls in his Relief Society president and tells her of this situation, then the obligation rests upon her to keep absolutely confidential all matters pertaining to the family involved. This is one of the most important qualifications of a worker, for a worker who cannot keep the confidence of her people soon loses her influence with them, and she will not be successful. When this call comes to your stake under the direction of the General Board, I am sure this particular phase of the work will be given special emphasis. There is the matter of good judgment. I would like to say this in connection with the needs of the people of our Church—their home needs, their physical needs—there is no one better qualified to determine what these needs are than you mothers, the managers of homes. You know more about these matters than we men, so your judgment should be good. In passing, let me read to you a statement in connection with good judgment: "The worker should be able to make plans that are practicable. She should not be overemotional, as it is a well known fact that too much emotion interferes with good judgment. Nor should she be too impulsive, but should
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 321
be able to think through a situation carefully before acting." I am sure this statement is most pertinent to the work you are called to do. There is the matter of tact. "Thoughtfulness for the feelings of others, and a kind attitude toward them is an essential element in the personality of a worker." I should like to digress here long enough to tell you a little story where the feelings of some good people were sorely hurt. There was a Priesthood quorum in the Church who knew that one of its members was in distress, and out of goodness of heart purchased fine pieces of clothing for this man and his good wife. Then with the very best of intentions, and without consulting the man or his wife, these articles of clothing were presented to them unexpectedly. It almost broke the heart of the woman. She was proud and did not know anyone knew of her condition. Had someone gone into that home and talked the matter through with them and found out what their needs were, with tact and diplomacy, no doubt these articles could have been given to them and would have been accepted with no one's feelings being hurt. The matter of thinking of the feelings of people is essential, and I am sure there is no one who can approach these problems with finer tact and diplomacy than the women of the great Relief Society Organization. Here is another point found in the outline of the General Board: "Sympathy and tolerance: Real sympathy says little but does much. To be tolerant a worker should be able to suspend judgment until all the facts are known and both sides
322 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of the question considered—never condemn a person unheard; and she should be able to see the other's point of view." I am sure that is splendid advice. These workers should have the ability to work with others and to work under direction. As I said in the beginning, you will work under the direction of the bishop and the president of the stake. If I am not mistaken, it is the intention of the Relief Society to give this assignment of visiting families and making the survey of the ward to the Relief Society president; and should she not be able to do this work, she and the bishop should select a person ideally fitted for it. In the next place, the worker should have a real liking for the work she is called to do, and the suggestion comes that she should have good native intelligence and a wholesome personality. I am sure there is no group of women in the world who have more native intelligence than those found in Relief Society, and every woman who comes in contact with this Organization develops personality. Here is the meat of this whole outline—the important thing. Through this suggestion comes the achievement of our second objective, that people shall be taught to help and assist themselves. The Church Welfare Program is not a dole. "Put into every man's heart a sense of his own supreme worth in the sight of God"—that is the spiritual side. Respect for the individual and for his personality and character is a fundamental principle in the art of helping. It aims to maintain the self-respect of the individual—to help in such a way that he will not suffer undue humiliation. The next aim should be to maintain his morale so that he will not lose his desire for independence and allow others to do for him what he could do for himself. People must be taught, and we must encourage them to keep their independence, and not allow us or anyone else to do something for them that they can do for themselves. There is no question but that the program of the past seven or eight years relative to relief has had a demoralizing effect upon the American people, because the people have had things done for them in many instances where they could have done for themselves. In the Church Program it is our intention to see that everyone does what he can for himself, and remove from his mind and thoughts the idea that he is dependent upon someone. Any normal individual may require temporary assistance, that is true. The first objective of the Church Welfare Program was to furnish temporary assistance in the form of food and shelter and clothing, but to keep him in a state of dependence when he could maintain himself is a crime against the individual as well as the society which supports him. It robs society of the kind of people who make a self-sustaining social order possible, and causes the individual to sell his birthright for a mess of pottage. You have had contact with families who will permit you to take care of them indefinitely. They will permit you to do everything that you possibly can for them without making any effort to assist themselves. As members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints we want to go back to the fundamentals of the pioneers and teach our people, in so far as it is possible, to stand squarely upon their own feet, and to meet the issues as best they can, with the assurance that there is always someone interested in them to the extent that they will not have to go hungry. The Relief Society keeps in mind this principle in the care of the needy. Its efforts will always build up rather than destroy those qualities in personality which contribute to the welfare of the individual and through him to society. In looking over the annual report of the Relief Society for the year 1938, I find that you practice what you preach. Many people have come to the office of the General Board for assistance, and here is what you have done: 3,877 women applied for work; 3,375 employers were solicited for work, and there were 2,680 women placed in employment. That is real rehabilitation, and if we could just accomplish throughout the Church what is being accomplished in the Relief Society in this particular connection, I am sure we would preserve the independence of all our people who find themselves in need. As I said in the beginning, this matter of making investigations is a serious one that must be done in all kindness; and if, after you have made an investigation for a bishop, he refuses to follow your suggestions, do not feel hurt. You have done your duty. You have fulfilled your assignment. There is just another word in connection with finances. The finances that are used to take care of our people and the finances of the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 323
Church Welfare Program come from the tithes. To me tithing is the most sacred money that anyone can handle. Taxes are sacred, but tithing is far more sacred because it belongs to the Lord. It represents the widow's mite, and it also represents the large income of the rich man. We must handle it most intelligently so that the dollars will go as far as possible. As time goes on, as I said, the Relief Society Board will come into your stakes and bring to you this program. It had its beginning in the Salt Lake Region composed of sixteen stakes, and I am sure it is going to produce for us some splendid results. I sincerely trust that the Lord will bless and sustain you in your great work. Your faith and loyalty to the Church are an inspiration. I met a man in the Temple grounds yesterday as this great crowd of Singing Mothers emerged from the Tabernacle. He was a stranger within our gates, and he asked, "Who are all these women?" "They are Singing Mothers of the Relief Society." He said, "It must cost the Church a great amount of money to bring them here and pay them to sing." I said, "They are not paid; they pay their own transportation, coming from the remote parts of the Church, and paying all expenses." He said, "I cannot believe it; I do not know how that can be possible." But I told him such was the case, and that they were glad to come, feeling it a privilege to serve the Church. I pray the Lord to bless and continue to inspire you in this great work.
324 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
PROGRESS OF THE 1938 MEMBERSHIP DRIVE By Rae B. Barker
ONE-FOURTH of our time for membership building has slipped by. Are we one-fourth nearer our objective? Whatever the result, it is the combined effort, successes and disappointments of all of us. The kind of report you want to hear, of course, would be one of progress. It is one of progress. There are some gratifying highlights of splendid achievement. Those ranking highest, in the order of their increase in numbers are: Western States Mission, Los Angeles, South Davis, Carbon, Blackfoot, Smithfield, Grant, Oakland, Pioneer, Tooele and Wells. From the standpoint of percentage of increase, Los Angeles and Western States Mission more than satisfied their four-year quotas. South Davis and Oakland completed their three-year quotas. However, this is not a complete picture, for the report as a whole has its hills and valleys. Those groups just mentioned reached the hill-tops; others are still climbing. Some are resting on the plateaus; others have slipped down a little into the valleys—they have lost rather than gained. The membership increase for 1937 was two thousand. Our increase for 1938 was a little above five thousand, one thousand more being needed for this year's quota. Emphasis placed on membership the past year has definitely accelerated our rate of growth. Numbers never tell the whole story. They fail to show the handicaps you struggled with in localities of varied conditions, or the splendid spirit with which you set out to do the work. Your original ideas and ingenuity would indicate that many used the old but practical formula for success, "Do what you can, where you are, with what you have." From various reports we glean the following pertinent observations: 1. Stake presidents realized that the attitude of the head spreads through the entire body. They accepted the membership assignment as an important one and entrusted the actual work to capable coordinators backed by the support of the stake board. 2. The most fruitful methods included personal contact work carried on through the cooperation of the visiting teachers and of the class leaders assisted by small special committees, all acting with the help and direction of the coordinators. 3. It was an incentive to excel when each ward coordinator knew that her individual results in the drive would be given in a suitable stake gathering. 4. Many organizations recognized big possibilities for attracting new members through the new course, Education for Family Life. In one class there are thirty women who have never belonged to Relief Society, another has twenty, and there are many others with similar numbers. Its appeal particularly to young parents has met with most favorable response. Perhaps to some stakes that have made very little increase in membership, this may suggest a new source for increase. Five thousand sisters have affiliated with us for the first time this year. Will we keep them with us? The Prophet Joseph Smith gave us a helpful clue when he said to the Nauvoo Relief Society this, in effect, if you want to lead people into new ways, take them by the hand and watch over them in tenderness. Further he said, "When any person manifests the least kindness and love to me, oh what a power it has over my mind." Perhaps we could stress a little more in our organizations bonding (cementing) through friendliness. Another thought worthy of our reflection is that all we may say to publicize Relief Society must be backed by the best organization work we are capable of doing. We
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 325
may work diligently to attract women to our meetings, but the worthwhileness of the meeting itself will be the final answer as to whether we hold those whom we attract. Do you see membership building as an opportunity to share with others the priceless thing you enjoy—do you see it as Relief Society's way of spreading the blessings of the Gospel? If we have enjoyed choice privileges because of Relief Society experiences, perhaps we should remember the Savior's words to Peter: "When thou art converted strengthen thy brother." We give our love to the five thousand new members of 1938 and extend our hands to yet other thousands during the coming year. The address "Builders In Action" by Bessie Redding will appear in a later issue.
Social Welfare Department Counselor Amy B. Lyman, Chairman
FAMILY CONSERVATION AN AIM OF THE CHURCH WELFARE DEPARTMENT Clyde C. Edmonds, General Welfare Committee
I HOPE I have a proper conception of what was expected when the subject, Family Conservation an Aim of the Church Welfare Program was assigned to me. I like to think of the Welfare Program in terms of the Lord helping those who help themselves. Sometimes I wonder whether people have lost the spirit of the faithful and a willingness to do, particularly when things stack up against them and they become discouraged. It would be a fine thing if all people had the attitude that it is all right to ask for blessings, provided they are also willing to work for these blessings. I sincerely believe we should approach our problems from the point of view that the Lord will help those who are willing to help themselves. That is another way of saying, "Charity begins at home," and is the angle from which I would like to discuss the problem. Have the necessary adjustments been made in homes where misfortune may have fallen? Have family members squared themselves to their problems? Have they taken the atti-
326 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tude that adjustments must be made, or are they assuming that the world owes them a living? The sheriff told me that not so long ago he went into a certain section of the state to repossess an automobile. When he approached the home, he was absolutely dumbfounded. It was a two-room house, and there were five or six children. All was confusion in the home. Mattresses were strewn on the floor of one room, where all of the family slept; they were living in the other room. Yet, here was a man driving a Pierce-Arrow automobile. The sheriff said, "I must ask you why you bought such an expensive automobile." The man pointed across the fields and said, "Over there is my neighbor who has a fine automobile. My children are just as good as his and are entitled to enjoy just as fine things; during the time we had the automobile we enjoyed it." I think these people failed to recognize that in order to achieve their purposes they should have adjusted themselves to their circumstances and tried to make the condition within the home better instead of putting all they had in an automobile. I like the thought of cooperation within the family, a division of responsibility, so that everyone senses the fact that he has definite work to do, and that the harmony of the home depends upon his doing it. I believe one way out of family difficulties is through cooperation. When we discuss our problems and make them family problems, we will be able to bring about better adjustments. I think the problem of many of us is just the lack of good old thrift. When I think of what my mother did as a widow on a very meager income, I am truly ashamed that I have not achieved more. My plea is to make thrift the theme song of rehabilitation. I like the idea of a family budget. Plenty of our people do not know what we mean by a budget. It is determining how we are going to let our money be spent, and what we intend to achieve through the budget; and once we live by it, we will be surprised how well things work out. Our Church leaders have always told us to live within our means in order that we shall not be caught in a very unfavorable position. I like the idea of trying to catch a vision of the real values, the genuine values, the things that mean most to us in the final analysis. Our ideals are the things that are really worth while in life. Let us implant them in our lives and in the lives of our children and help them to appreciate the fine things that mean so much in making a rich life. I think about this a great deal when speaking about living within our means. I have two very fine friends. Both of these men at the present time are earning about the same amount of money. In one home you find system, order, convenience, with things in a reasonable state of repair. The four children are well dressed, neat and clean. The father and mother are doing their duty and measuring up to the requirements made of them in the ward. Altogether you find a very pleasing, happy environment. In the other friend's home exactly the opposite condition exists. The front door-yard reveals things as they are throughout—a poorly governed family and poor management within the home. The husband works hard and earns a reasonably adequate income, but there is poor organization somewhere—a lack of cooperation; something is wrong. These two homes have almost identical incomes, but the families are different types. There is a job to do with the one family—they should be taught home management and the value of a budget. I WONDER if there is not a general shifting of pride in the human family. In the past a great deal of time and thought was given to our homes and surroundings. We enjoyed having our friends come to see us so that they might also enjoy our very comfortable and pleasant, though often humble, surroundings. Has pride shifted from the home and its surroundings to the automobile! It would be a good thing if the shift could be turned partially back till the home and families find real pride and satisfaction in beautiful surroundings—a garden—let us even be thrifty enough to say a vegetable garden. We do not see these as often as we used to, and that is one of the things we should consider in a return to thrift. As I travel over this country, I come back to Utah chagrined over conditions I have seen in our communities as compared with what I have seen in other states. Have we failed to realize the need for a cheerful and pleasing environment? As you drive home, check up, and
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 327
you will find far more unpainted than painted homes in the large communities. Look at the fences along the highway and see if you can take pride in the surroundings. When you do find a beautifully kept place, it is like an oasis in a desert. What is the matter? Have we lost pride in our homes? Have our standards of living allowed us to sink to such a level that we do not see what is all around us? Have we become accustomed to run-down conditions in the midst of which we live? I have never been able to understand why a fence is allowed to fall down. Keeping things in repair takes a few hours, of course, but the satisfaction that comes from the improved appearance more than pays for the time spent. I cannot help but wonder if children brought up in an untidy home, growing up in careless surroundings, do not later reflect this carelessness. I urge that we devise ways and means of improving our homes, so that our children may have greater pride in them and a desire to bring their friends to the home instead of going away from it. One of the cardinal points in the Welfare Program of the Church is the raising of the standards of living. I believe we ought to keep that uppermost in our minds and influence our neighbors to make Utah communities, by which the Mormon people are judged, a little more cheerful, bright and attractive. If we can get this message over to our people I am sure we will have achieved our purpose. The addresses "What Relief Society Has Contributed To Family Welfare" by Amy W. Evans and "Problems of Modern Family Life" by Caroline M. Hendricks will appear in a later issue.
Work and Business Department Lalene H. Hart, Chairman
ONE feature of the Work and Business Department was an exhibit showing what has been and can be accomplished in the field of nutrition. A demonstration of food preparation and preservation proved very attractive as well as educational. The stakes participating under the direction of Mrs. Ivy L. Hall were Highland, Cottonwood, Wells, Grant, Oquirrh, West Jordan and East Jordan.
INTERPRETING HOMEMAKING THROUGH WORK AND BUSINESS By Anna S. Barlow
IT is the ambition of every Latter-day Saint woman to make her home a place where family members live together in love and harmony; a place in which they take pride; a place where their minds, souls and bodies are daily recreated for greater accomplishment. Modern life gives us an opportunity to make our homes fulfill their highest purpose—that of producing happy citizens, physically, mentally, spiritually healthy and sensitive to their social responsibilities. In assuming their tasks as homemakers mothers are more and more realizing that knowledge, training, preparation, and constant effort are essential to success. The Work and Business Department is immediately concerned with providing knowledge and training in the practical phases of homemaking. It will always be the function of the Relief Society to sew for the needy on Work and Business day, but because of urgent needs and insistent demands other programs have been inaugurated. At the present time throughout the United States people are becoming more and more conscious of the importance of proper food supplies, food habits, and regulated appetites. People are becoming more and more concerned with malnutrition of infants and children. Dorothy Thompson, famous news commentator, in a recent magazine article entitled Children Starve in This Land of Plenty said that from one-eighth to one-fifth of all children in the United States are undernourished. The course of study suggested last year by the General Board, Selection and Preparation of Food for Nutrition, has been taken up in many stakes with success. It is suggested by the General Board that for the coming year we continue this study, and it is hoped that those who have not taken the course will do so. The following subjects have been selected as a suggestive course: Year's Food Supply. Food Sanitation. Clean Dishes. Selection and Preparation of Vegetables. Efficient Kitchen for Food Preparation. Food Habits and Appetites. Safe Cleaning Suggestions. School Lunches. Preservation. ANEMIA It is suggested that the plan given last year for conducting the course be used this coming year. We refer you to the May Magazine for 1938. Material will be compiled, with lists of pamphlets included, and sent to stake presidents in the near future; these lists will also be published in the Magazine. Additional material may be published in the Magazine from time to time. It is suggested that stake Work and Business leaders contact their
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 329
own Boards of Health and agricultural colleges for additional material on these subjects. Libraries, current magazines and newspapers will be profitable sources of information. What greater objective could the Work and Business department have than that of aiding mothers in the problem of developing physically healthy family members. The address, Guarding the Family Health, by Elna Miller will appear in a later issue.
Choristers and Organists Department Janet M. Thompson, Chairman
A LARGE group of choristers and organists attended the Music Department, and the interest and enthusiasm manifested by them gives promise of a most successful future for Relief Society musical activities. With our objective for 1939-1940 in mind—to improve the quality, the character and the effectiveness of music in all of our Relief Society organizations—the Music Department presented the following program: Ida Peterson Beal spoke to the subject, "Ten Minutes—They Are Yours," and stressed the importance of the ten minute song practice. Beatrice F. Stevens, not only a writer of verse but also a composer of music, introduced two new songs, The Work We're Called To Do and Our Father In Heaven, Thy Praises We Sing, composed especially for our Relief Society women. The latter song is dedicated to President Louise Y. Robison. We are indeed indebted to Sister Stevens for her valuable contributions to the new song book. Professor Wade N. Stephens, Assistant Tabernacle Organist, discussed "Fundamentals of Conducting". A full report of his talk will be given in a later issue of the Magazine. Another feature of the program was the introduction of a new Easter song. The words of this particular number were taken from the Magazine and were penned by Estelle Webb Thomas, which she titled "The Resurrection". Professor Stephens graciously consented to compose the music, and we are delighted to have it among our collection of new songs. We sincerely appreciate the earnest, untiring efforts of mission, stake and ward choristers and organists. We are grateful for the work that has been accomplished in elevating Relief Society music to a higher level,
330 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in developing a greater appreciation for it and in stimulating among our members a desire for better music. We are deeply grateful for the Relief Society Singing Mothers and are indebted to them for their outstanding contribution to the Organization, for their loyalty, cooperation and good will. The committee is zealously working on the new Relief Society Song Book, and missions, stakes and wards will be notified when it is ready for distribution.
TEN MINUTES—THEY ARE YOURS By Ida Peterson Beal
"WITHOUT practice there can be no interest, and without interest there can be no progress." Here indeed is a challenge! Our music directors must accept it. Ten minutes of the regular Relief Society meeting, except the first Tuesday of the month, have been given to choristers and organists for song practice time. Make these ten golden minutes pay a rich dividend in better singing and in a keener and deeper appreciation of our hymns and good music in general. In order to make them profitable the chorister and the organist must be united in their aims. The work for each Tuesday should be well planned. Be conversant with the songs you plan to teach. Choristers, know the words of the hymns so that you may have your eyes on the singers. Know the tempo and beat time correctly. Observe the marks of expression, emphasize them, and make them effective. Draw attention to the beauty of the words—they are sermons. Do not attempt too many songs for one practice. The organist should play the hymns without errors, giving a full rich tone so that the singers may hear the harmonies accurately. She, too, should observe carefully the marks of expression. Endeavor to have altos and sopranos well balanced. Stress proper posture and breathing—this is very essential. Never nag! Praise brings about better results. The personality of the chorister is felt by the singers. Give them the leadership they need, and the results will be very gratifying. Choristers and organists should study the Magazine carefully. A knowledge of the lesson material is important. It will give you the theme on which you base the selection of hymns for the day. Do not neglect this correlation; it has a definite place in your preparation. There is much good material in the Magazine for the instruction of music leaders. You must not fail your ward presidency. Your preparation for your ten minutes must be as painstaking and accurate as that manifested by the wide-awake class leaders. Your part is important, and in the great scheme of Relief Society you must establish the value of good music. It has been said that singing gives "tone" to the meeting. The ward presidency have confidence in your ability; do not disappoint them. Seek divine guidance, greet your opportunities and gratefully acknowledge your part in improving the glorious gift of song.
Magazine Department Belle S. Spafford, Chairman
MY CALLING By Eleanor S. Muir
I AM happy that my calling is identified with the Relief Society Magazine. I want to share the joy of its possession and its high ideals with every Latter-day Saint woman in my stake. My goal is not percentages. Percentages are useful as a barometer; they tell a story; they tell me whether or not we are a little closer to our real goal. Our real goal is to build homes by placing in them a magazine which carries vital messages every month. How can we be sure of success in our Magazine work? To me the answer is organization. As stake Magazine agents we should first plan our own program, then assist the ward agents to make plans, giving them as much help as possible in the execution of these plans. Then comes the check-up. I think success is more assured if some member of the stake board is responsible for the Magazine all of the time, rather than having the work assigned to some member during the the Drive and then letting it drift the remainder of the year. 'The Magazine work is year around work. There are many obstacles which beset the path of a Magazine representative. The greatest of these is perhaps a wrong mental attitude toward the work. If a representative approaches her work feeling that she does not care much for it and is only doing it because it is her duty, then she fails before she has started. If she has the attitude that only half the women in her ward can afford the Magazine, then without doubt her results will be disappointing. Low incomes do not necessarily mean low sales percentages, for there is a great desire for spirituality and culture among the low income groups of our Church. I consider the complete cooperation of the ward presidency of vital importance. In the Union meeting department we have dealt with such subjects as: Promotion of Good Reading, Personality in Your Work, Business-like Procedure, How to Approach People, Follow-up Work, The Need of the Magazine, Our Magazine and Its Editorial Policy, and Human Interest Back of the Magazine. The ward agents report on their work every month. Prior to launching the Drive, I hold a Pep Rally at my home with the ward agents and ward presidents. At this time I give the agents their instructions: First, the specific instructions which come from the General Board; second, the additional instructions and suggestions necessary to make our: stake Drive successful. In addition to the free subscriptions given by the General Board, the stake also gives free subscriptions and a framed award. I don't know of any magic tricks whereby the Magazine may be sold. But I do know we must be enthusiastic and energetic; we must do our work for the joy we find in it. The Magazine has no tongue but our tongues, no hands but our hands, no feet but our feet; so it is our calling to promote its circulation. 332 MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SELLING By Edith Wilson WHEN I was called to work as Magazine agent in my ward, I felt very humble. Our percentage of subscriptions was low, and this was my first experience in selling. So before undertaking my work, I asked my Heavenly Father to bless me that I might be able to accomplish the thing which I had been called upon to do. It is very necessary to be orderly in keeping a record of subscribers. I have a book used only for this purpose. On one page are the names of those whose subscriptions begin in January, another page is for February, and so on through the year. When it is nearly time for them to renew their subscriptions I remind them—early enough for them to put away the dollar. I watch for people who move into the ward and for new members and workers in the Relief Society. I try to become acquainted with them before I call at their homes. I try to learn what their interests are. When I call at the home I try to lead the sister to talk about her interests before I mention the Magazine. Often there is some article in the Magazine that contains information on the very thing in which she is most interested. I appreciate having the visiting teachers speak of the value of the Magazine in the homes they visit. Talks given in Relief Society and Sacrament meeting are of great help also. Every non-subscriber has a reason for not taking the Magazine, so I try to prepare to meet every objection. For example, some people say, "I cannot afford to take it." I explain to them that it costs less than g cents a copy. Some of the mothers tell me they are now taking too many magazines. I tell them this magazine is different because every one in the family will enjoy reading it. I suggest leaving one of my magazines in the home, saying I will call later for it. I find I get many subscriptions this way. Where the mother is not a member of our Relief Society, and so feels she has no need of the Magazine, I explain about our Organization and also tell her about the contents of the Magazine. Here again I leave a copy. I find that if she subscribes, she usually becomes a member of our Society sooner or later, and I feel this is real missionary work. I always get in touch with new subscribers and ask them if they are receiving their magazines and if they enjoy reading them. I often suggest some interesting article to them. I never feel discouraged if I fail to get a subscription the first time I call. I manage to call again and again and find it always pays. I try to make the sisters feel that they are not just paying out money for a periodical but that the Relief Society Magazine is really a messenger, sent to their homes to deliver a real, tangible blessing in the form of good will and valuable truths from our leaders who are inspired by the Lord. The address “The Magazine a Medium For Growth" by Dorothy Clapp Robinson will appear in a later issue. General Session— Morning THE CHURCH OF MY CHOICE By Jennie B. Knight IT IS to Dr. George H. Brimhall that I am indebted not only for the choice of my church but also for the outline for this talk. One day while in my teens I said to him, "Father, you think I am a Mormon, but I am not and do not intend to be one." His wise answer calmed my rebellious heart and gave me food for thought. Putting his arm around me, he said: "If being a Mormon won't give my little girl more happiness than anything else in the world, I don't want her to be a Mormon." That was all, and the subject was never referred to again. As. The years have passed and I have been privileged to attend a church school, to work in the various auxiliary organizations, and to be present at church gatherings, I have found some characteristics of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that are not common to other churches. First: Our church is linked to heaven by divine authority. I believe that the same God who spoke to Moses in the burning bush and gave him commandments on Mount Sinai spoke to Joseph Smith in the Sacred Grove. Second: My church glorifies intelligence and declares that willful ignorance is a bar to salvation; that "the glory of God is intelligence, or in other words light and truth." Third: It holds sacred the free agency of man, giving every individual a right to go to God for himself, "Every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am." (Doctrine and Covenants Section 93:1.) Fourth: My church provides for progress—eternal progress—through continuous revelation to those whose duty it is to administer church affairs. It accepts scientific discovery as part of God's truth and adopts that which is advantageous to the spreading of the Gospel or improvement of its members. It encourages its members to seek knowledge from all sources; to study and learn and become acquainted with all good books and with languages, tongues and people. Fifth: It recognizes recreation as pleasing to God. No ward is complete without its Primary festivals, Relief Society socials, Old Folks' gatherings and Priesthood outings. It has such confidence in youth that it has given the supervision of recreation to the young people. Sixth: We have our sacred temples where youth, maturity and old age meet in a common cause. Couples are here married for time and eternity; others are working for their dead. Seventh: My church honors and respects women; it grants them every opportunity for development in spiritual, intellectual and social 334 MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE lines. This great Relief Society was organized by the Prophet. Its weekly programs are unsurpassed; its avenues for service are unlimited. I rejoice in my affiliation with it; it has helped me to better appreciate my blessings. I understand now that my father knew the Mormon church and its value. Now I know some of the outstanding characteristics of the church of my choice — a place where faith in God will increase, where a love of Jesus Christ and His Gospel will grow, where a testimony of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith is to be had, where there is freedom through right living, growth by self-effort, happiness through altruistic service.  THE GOSPEL—A PRACTICAL WAY OF LIFE By Cora L. Bennion THE Savior said, "I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly." The abundant life is realized through the practical application of © the principles which Jesus taught as implied in another of his notable sayings, "Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free." And again this knowledge is gained through obedience as indicated in another passage in the Gospel according to John, when Jesus answered the doubting multitude as he taught in the temple, "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." The practical values of the Gospel are especially emphasized in the Epistle of James. He wrote: "What doth it profit my brethren though a man say he hath faith and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, and one of you say to them, depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. The same author tells us that, "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." This view of religion applies very directly to the purposes of the Relief Society. Women of this Organization have given generously of their time and strength both in pioneer days and also in recent times, in caring for the needs of the people, but what does it mean to keep oneself unspotted from the world? P Evidently it means to live in accordance with the moral teachings of the Gospel and to keep free from the sins of the world. This, however, is no real sacrifice since it is the only road to the enduring satisfactions of life, and to that joy which it was designed by the Creator that men and women should have. While Relief Society women have important community responsibili- ties, these should not detract from their home duties. This is especially true of mothers whose sons and daughters are still immature. Mothers and fathers are responsible for teaching the Gospel, both by precept and by example, to their children. * This calls for closely-knit family ties and intimate association of members of the family in their home life. The father's business often takes him away from home much of the time, leaving the mother to carry the major responsibility in the care and religious education of the family. It is not designed that Relief Society women shall neglect this duty. This does not mean that mothers should be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 335 confined, like prisoners, to the home. They will be more competent for their home responsibilities if they keep in touch with the community life and know something of the social life and outside interests of their children. By these means and by wise use of leisure time for study, mothers may keep abreast of the times and continue to live in the same world as their children. This will help them to "be strong and of good courage" and to avoid the pitfalls of unwarranted fears and worties. The Gospel of Christ will help us to develop those soul satisfying aspects of living, and will help to eliminate the negative factors that destroy the joys of life. — BUILDERS OF TESTIMONY By Donna D. Sorensen F to every woman in the Church was put this question: "What do you desire most for your son or daughter?" the answer would come ringingly back from every true Latter-day Saint mother, "I would want my child to have, most of all, a testimony of the Gospel." Why a testimony? Because the Lord has said, "He that seeketh me early shall find me and shall not be forsaken." Because the strength of this Church lies in the individual testimonies of its members. Because to possess a firm, strong testimony acts as a way of life and points the direction as truly as a radio beam to the airplane. Because a testimony is the strongest shield one can have against "the fiery darts of the adversary". Through revelation in this dispensation Latter-day Saint parents have been told of the necessity of teaching their children the first principles of the Gospel, and so upon the women of Relief Society devolves this most important duty of the proper training and rearing of their children in the faith of the Gospel. The training of the human soul for advancement here and joy hereafter calls for the greatest possible powers of mind and heart. It is generally admitted that the first years of life are crucial in determining what the future of the child shall be spiritually as well as physically. The mother with a testimony herself in the divinity of Jesus Christ is given an authority and a certainty which she would otherwise lack. "To most of our young people the miracle of testimony is one of gradual 336 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE growth or development. Unknown to them, the mother's lullabies, the bedtime prayers, the family devotion... Are all making them converts." Teaching by example is especially important in the rearing of children. A mother should make it obvious that she is seriously interested in religious things and believes in them herself. To the Saints in this dispensation has come the command to teach their children to pray. Secret and family prayers and a blessing on every meal we eat all help "in forming a loving acquaintance with the Father". We might well ask ourselves this question: "How is the Relief Society fitting our women to be better participants in this great work of building testimonies in their families?" In our testimony meetings women are given the privilege to partake of that same spirit that they desire to inculcate in their families. Then, too, hundreds of women are weekly giving knowledge which they have to their sisters and in the giving are growing more able to give to their families. Many of our women are playing the part of the good Samaritan in their vicinities and doing good, and this, too, is one way to increase and grow in the knowledge of the truth. REPORT Eliza N. Salm, Oahu Stake Relief Society President EING surrounded by our Relief Society Singing Mothers, looking into your sweet, smiling faces, and with the feeling I have that my beloved people back home are praying for me, gives me courage to stand before you this morning. My dear sisters and friends, President Louise Y. Robison and her co-workers, my Alo-haa nui loa! When Sister Robison came to visit our island, we greeted her with aloha; that means aloha from within our hearts, the old way of the Hawaiians when they greet their loved ones. My heart is filled with gratitude to my Father in Heaven for the privilege we have of coming to your beautiful land. The Saints from Hawaii—the land of sunshine, flowers, music and singing—extend their greetings and alo-ha nui to you all. Six of us, Relief Society mothers, left our homes and loved ones and traveled thousands of miles to come to your beautiful land to participate in this conference. 'Three members of our stake board are here with me and two Relief Society ward presidents, one a mother of sixteen children, of whom fifteen are living and three attending the University of California. The few moments I occupy I sincerely ask my Father in Heaven to help me that I may be able to say those things that will make you proud of what we are doing in our Stake of Oahu. On December 13, 1850, the first missionaries arrived in the Hawaiian Islands, George O. Cannon and his companions. Twenty-five years later, on July 6, 1875, the first Relief Society was organized at Laie, on the Island of Oahu. Laie is my birthplace, and it is where the Temple now stands—one of the most beautiful sites on the islands and one most frequently visited by tourists. Relief Societies aré now organized on all the islands of the group. 'There were fifty-five branches under the leadership of the mission presidents. Much was done. The Relief Society had charge of the care of the missionaries at this time. I want to tell you that your sons and daughters are Our sons and daughters, and we love them all. We saw that their clothes were laundered, fed the poor, and cared for the sick. The missionaries instructed the Hawaiian sisters in the ways of today—sewing, cooking and so forth. The Gospel has been preached by the sisters traveling for miles on foot, visiting the Saints scattered here and there. As time has gone on, the work has progressed. Several hundred sisters are now within our fold and are doing much good. The art of handcraft has been part of our work—weaving mats, fans, hats, purses, cushions and other artistic pieces of the lauhala. Crepe paper leis, imitating the tropical flowers, have been made; the tourists would not go home without them. We have also made layettes and quilts. When Sister Robison visited our island, we presented her with an Hawaiian quilt. The sale of handwork has been a means of raising money to build up. Our funds. It was during the leadership of President Castle H. Murphy that changes were made on the Island of Oahu. August 4, 1931, the Relief RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 337 Societies on the Island of Oahu were placed under the direction of a district board. It was my privilege and opportunity to serve on this board for two years. Later I became president of the district board. It was difficult for us to change from the accustomed way of doing things. Later, in 1935, President Heber J. Grant came to Hawaii, and it was then that the Island of Oahu became a Stake of Zion—the only one in the group of islands. 'The officers of the district board were appointed the Oahu Stake Relief Society Board. From then on the responsibility was ours. We realized the load was heavy. We were inexperienced for this high position, not having had much education, but Heavenly Father has been very kind, and we have been led through His guidance. FE have been carrying out instructions from our General Board and have tried to equip ourselves to the best of our ability, although we have come upon a lot of difficulties, especially in the Literary work. 'The Hawaiian sisters have not had much education; most of them have only gone to school up to the fourth or fifth grades. We speak the Hawaiian and English languages in our meetings, trying to interpret to the best of our ability, so as not to lose anything which is outlined for us. The Hawaiian race have their own way of preserving their legends. So far they have not had books printed, but they have been taught from father to son, from generation to generation. While the mission Relief Societies 338 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE — took care of all charity work, the bishop of each individual ward now has charge of that work. We carry out instructions whenever any emergency comes up. We have the bishop's sanction before we carry out any charity work. The money paid out for charitable purposes comes out of fast offerings. The Relief Society, therefore, does not raise money as it did in the years past, but is allowed to raise money only in the month of March, all the wards and branches joining together and supporting the stake board in one big affair. A week before we left our islands, the Relief Society stake board gave a concert, dance, and bazaar to raise funds for our Relief Societies. 'There were over eight hundred cooperating in this great affair, which was held in connection with our Anniversary on the 17th of March. We are raising money for our contribution to the erection of our proposed tabernacle. We have had this privilege for the past eight years. On October 29 the Saints of Hawail prepared a luau. I am sure those who have been on a mission to the Islands know what that means. We fed eight thousand people. We served 4,000 pounds of pork, 4,000 pounds of poi—that is the main food of the people of Hawaii, 3,000 pounds of sweet potatoes, 1,500 chickens, 1,000 pounds of luau, 2,000 pounds of fish, 2,000 pounds of moss (sea weed), 5,000 coconuts, 500 boxes of starch — corn starch to make the Hawaiian pudding, 100 pounds of sugar, 20 tins of kilola, 240 cakes, 100 pounds of ice used for cold drinks. We served from 12 0'clock noon to 8 p.m. Twenty-five men prepared the imu, and fresh pork was served at each sitting. Twenty-five men served poi. There were 500 waiters, go for each sitting. Altogether there were 1,500 workers. I was in charge of the cakes, and of the leis. The Hawaiian sisters just love to make leis with their own hands, and we greet our missionaries with leis; but you greeted us with beautiful corsages when we arrived in your land. We can now see improvement in our work, and the interest and support has been wonderful. We are trying to support our General Board in the Membership Campaign, and we will do our best. It is our aim to support the Mormon Handicraft. I have brought with me handwork which our Hawaiian sisters have made as a token to our General Board. I want to testify to you that if it had not been for the Gospel we would not have left our loved ones and come to testify to you that God lives, that He hears and answers our prayers, and that Jesus is the Son of the Living God. May the choicest blessings of our Heavenly Father rest upon us this day, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen. Before the close of the afternoon session, two of the Hawaiian sisters brought leis to the tabernacle. Sister Salm put a lei on each member of the General Board, and also on the chorister and pianist, kissing Sister Robison as she presented the lei to her. This was very impressive. LOVE, THE NUTRIENT OF LIFE By Vivian R. McConkie OVE is a divine nutrient of human life and is the basis for all of our work. Jt motivates man toward the "bond of perfectness and peace". It strives for a fullness of life both here and hereafter. It stimulates thoughtful attention to the relationships of life. It is a native endowment of women, and expands heavenward as the subject grows in goodness. It encircles eternally those who do the will of the Father. It is manifested by the Son of God, through the Gospel. The atonement and the Holy Ghost evidence the extent to which it will reach to save us. It is inclusive of many qualities and is the mortar that holds the world together. It is a plant that matures beautifully or withers according to the cultivator of it. Let us surrender our personal pleasures and our ambitions in earnest endeavor to develop it. If so, then all things will work together for good. Love is expressed by words and deeds. True home culture can not exist without it. Its signs and tokens feed human affections. It is kind thoughts manifest in action; it perpetuates sentiment, considerations, and chivalry. When unexpressed it deteriorates. When expressed it refreshes parched places, and its sunshine awakens life. It continues courtship after marriage and is the sole remedy that will heal breaches that lead to broken homes. There is greater need for love than for modern comforts. If choice must be made between love and upto-date homes and automobiles, those who are touched with understanding will choose love and home and children and the standards of the Church as guide wires. If you would be loved be lovable, for love begets love. Like other gifts it must be used faithfully; otherwise it can not be enlarged. It must be active to reach the heart of another. Many hunger for it; yet, out of fear of encouraging vanity through lavish or unwise expressions of love many are allowed to starve for want of it. Malnutrition, where the element lacking is love, turns the heart to bitterness and the soul to rust. A wise word of recognition for a deed well done, or even for a failure, if the purpose was worthy, costs nothing and may greatly aid a worthy cause, as well as lighten a darkened soul. Love is measured by what it gives and by its purposes and its objects. The greatest love of all is manifest in the gift of eternal life, which is God's gift to all who desire righteousness. Man's greatest manifestation of love is to help persons to prepare themselves to receive eternal life, and the greatest thing that can be done to that end is to teach the truth. Our love is measured exactly by how completely we do this. If we love the Lord we will teach the Gospel, but we can not teach it if we do not live it. If we do not teach the truth it is because the light of truth is not in us. "I love thy testimonies." (Psalms 119:119.) ANALYZING VALUES IN PRESENT —DAY LIVING By Leda T. Jensen All of us were anxious to come to this world, created for our mortal probation. What are we doing each 'day with the life we came here to live? We all desire happiness, that inward peace and security that is the result of righteous living. What each individual does, what decisions he makes, what path he follows depends upon his sense of values. The most important aim of education is the evolution of a personal scheme of values. Our value concepts condition our appreciations and satisfactions. They determine our distant goals and our present decisions. As we learn to include in our daily living more of the esthetic, more of the ethical, and more of the spiritual values we hold highest, life takes on greater meaning and joy; it becomes more abundant. What has happened to us and our children biologically is a thing of the past. The environmental factors are immediately around us and in them are the possibilities for modification, adjustment and growth. Our social environment is a most intricate and complex one. The individual is being bombarded on every side by literally thousands of social influences, all of which are shaping the individual's ideas, attitudes, motives, and conduct. In the midst of the existing confusion, how is one to determine which values are necessary for peace and happiness? Where are we to turn for a guide, a pattern? Is public opinion a safe guide? Are the theories and philosophies of men infallible? Does the praise or ridicule of our friends and associates influence us in the standards we set? Sometimes it seems we know not which way to turn for inspiration. There is one sure source of right, one unerring pattern to which we may turn in spite of the complexity of modern living. Our Savior, Jesus Christ, has pointed out the way in the Gospel of the Master, given directly by Him or through his prophets to us. What about honesty, what about virtue, what about the Sabbath Day, what about using our leisure time, what about dealing fairly and justly with all of God's children? What the Savior has said about the matter should be the final tribunal. What would my Heavenly Father have me do should be our constant question. As Relief Society women, are our standards of living on the high level they should be? Are we assuming the great responsibility that rests upon us as mothers in Israel? Because of the confusion in the world about them children are probably more in need of the continuity and security that the home alone can give than they have ever been. After we have set our own house in order, we should strive constantly by precept and by consistent example to raise the morals of the neighborhood and the community in which we live. Then our lives will be truly happy, for we shall have that inward peace which comes from our Heavenly Father. If we honestly strive to follow His example, we shall be blessed to properly analyze values in presentday living and to live by those standards we know to be right. General Session—Afternoon OUR GREATEST HERITAGE By Counselor Kate M. Barker WITHOUT faith it is impossible to please God." Faith is pleasing to God because He knows how vital it'is to man. As we think of the distress in the world today, are we not every day of our lives filled with joy because our faith tells us that God does live, that there is meaning and purpose and continuity to life, that mght will prevail? But faith to be strong enough to endure must not stop at giving us comfort and a feeling of security. It must not only do something for us but make us do things. Faith is not an end to accomplish. It should rather be a starting point for new and greater things. The message of the Gospel to each of us is to get our values straight, then begin with ourselves, our homes, our communities. Our Relief Society lessons are planned to help us find the real values in life, which are faith in God, faith in the purpose, beauty and possibilities of life, and faith in one another. They are planned also to give practical help in applying our faith to works. 'The measure of their worth is whether the standards of home and community life are being raised. The great need of the world today is for leadership, and nowhere is it so needed as in the home. I like to think of Relief Society as a training school in leadership for mothers, providing such training as will result in higher home standards in the type of conversation, in the books read, in the love and unity of the family, in the spiritual life of the home. It is the sins of selfishness and unkindness which make for lack of love and unity in the home. 'These were the sins which Jesus hated above all else. Let us make faith in goodness easy for our children. There is so much happening today to tend to destroy faith in life. The home must make greater effort than ever to give youth the kind of faith which, though one is aware of the realities and difficulties of life, gives one an appreciation of the purposefulness of life and the courage and zest to meet life. If youth is to succeed it must thus face life. Another test of our lessons will be: Is our own and our children's love of the Gospel increasing? Is our faith strong enough to inspire them? Sister Spafford's little Scotch grandmother had a beautiful gold watch and chain. One day when a little girl Sister Spafford, who admired the watch, said to her grandmother, "Grandmother, will you leave me your watch and chain?" "My dear, I am leaving you something much more valuable. I brought it across the ocean from Scotland. It is the Gospel." What an impression to make on a little girl's mind and heart, especially when that testimony was corroborated by a wonderful life. The community is but the home 342 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE writ large, and woman's responsibility reaches there—the same responsibility which she has in the home —protecting the weak, caring for the sick and unfortunate, setting the standards of spiritual and cultural life. We all love to help. But in our complicated society the need for help is often not easy to see until tragedy comes. Our work is planned to help us understand human nature and the problems people are meeting today in order that we may be more sensitive to the needs of others and more understanding. The test of our success will be measured by the number of breakdowns which we prevent by extending a helping hand in time. How wonderful is the challenge our faith offers! A challenge so high it calls for the best of which we are capable. Jesus never minimized the discipline needed to be in His service. The Gospel asks us "not to be ministered unto but to administer". Opportunities for service are many. The chief causes of regret when we look back on life are the opportunities wasted, the responsibilities not met. Our faith is very precious to us. Let us resolve that nothing will rob us of it, that it will be active, that it will be the starting point for new and bigger things. Let us remember that our Father in Heaven was speaking to every member of the Church when He said, "Therefore O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve Him with all your heart, might, mind and strength." If we do this our faith will never die. "We know whom we have trusted."
SOME FUNDAMENTALS By Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
THE confused and disturbed condition of the world today, with its abnormal social and moral conditions, its economic and industrial problems, its unemployment and unrest, has caused thinking men and women to wonder what important fundamentals have been overlooked or ignored in the world's economy, or in life itself, that such conditions are possible. Among the groups which are making a comprehensive and prayerful study of conditions is our own Church; and though we are a small group, as world groups go, the Church is trying to set its own house in order. It has realized the seriousness of the situation surrounding its people and is trying to help solve their social and economic problems. I was especially impressed with the gravity of world conditions last July when I attended a meeting of the International Council of Women in Edinburgh, Scotland, where I heard prominent women from 31 nations discuss the pressing problems of the day from many angles and from their various national and racial viewpoints. These ordinarily well poised women were greatly disturbed over the serious conditions in their respective countries. The European women especially were concerned, apprehensive and filled with doubts and fears. They had not forgotten the last war with its consequent hardships, sufferings and tragedies, and now they feared another. Earnest prayers were offered daily in this great convention that enlightenment would come to the world; that men's hearts would be softened and turned from hate, selfishness, greed and war; and that the Golden Rule might be revitalized and adopted universally as a guide. Social philosophers, economists, newspaper columnists and other experts in our country are daily discussing the complex situation and trying to point the way to recovery and to peace. Dr. Henry C. Link in his new book The Rediscovery of Man has made some interesting observations and constructive suggestions. He infers that much of our present-day trouble is due to the fact that the world has drifted too far away from the fundamental principles and standards developed by the past, too far away from the great moral laws set up in the Old Testament, too far away from the teachings and ideals of the Savior. He declares that conditions would improve readily if people would but accept these universal truths and follow these laws. Dr. Link's social philosophy in many respects is not unlike that of our own Church which a few years ago was re-emphasized and reaffirmed by the First Presidency when they issued a Recall to social service, to the Christian ideals of the brotherhood of man, to religion—applied faith and spirituality.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 343
This great concerted effort on the part of the L. D. S. Church to help its people everywhere meet the complex conditions with which they are faced has been most inspiring and comforting to the people themselves, and has won the admiration of other groups. Definite objectives have been set up by the Church, the attainment of which will be sure to bring good results. The Church in its Welfare Program has been mindful of the values and lessons of the past; mindful of the abstract principles of right and wrong. It has stood firmly for those fundamental principles and standards and home-spun philosophies which have stood the test of time, which apply in all ages and which do not change even in a changing world. It has emphasized the fact that work, self-effort and self-reliance are basic elements of personal security and independence, and to this end it has sought to create work and opportunity; that industry, thrift and economy are the foundation stones of success in business and in home life; that too much social security weakens personal security; that honesty pays; that straightforwardness, dependability and integrity pay; that debt, whether national or personal, is bondage; that waste is calamitous; that installment buying is too expensive generally to be indulged in. In connection with this philosophy the Church, as always, seeks to develop faith in God and in His purposes, and obedience to the teachings of the Gospel. It is gratifying that the Relief Society is supporting and nobly assisting in this great Welfare Program.
344 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The General Board is most grateful for and appreciative of the efforts put forth by Relief Society women in this additional work, as well as in carrying forward the regular cultural and educational program of the Organization. An article by President George H. Brimhall has stimulated me greatly. One excerpt from it I shall read. He asks and answers his own pointed question. It is: "Who are the honest, constructive, helpful members of the Church?" "They are those who pray for the poor and pay their fast offerings; they are those who pray for the building up of Zion, and pay their tithing; they are those who pray for the missionaries and contribute to their support; they are those who pray for forgiveness and forgive others; they are those who pray for health and keep the Word of Wisdom; they are those who pray for divine support of leaders, and stand for their counsel and advice." The Relief Society has just passed its 97th birthday. All down through its history it has been a faithful and loyal auxiliary to the Church, and a devoted aid to the Priesthood. It has been both conservative and progressive; it has looked both backward and forward, cherishing all of the virtues of the past but always facing bravely the needs of the future with its new conditions. At various periods during its existence the Organization has emphasized movements that were of particular importance to the women of each era. Since the day of its organization in 1842, one of its major activities has been welfare work. In this it has tried to use constructive, intelligent methods based on sound principles, tempered with love, sympathy and mercy. It has studied the problems connected with this work seriously. It has tried to keep constantly in mind the importance of normal life and opportunity for the individuals and families it has served. It has aimed to hold sacred their personalities and their confidences. It has tried to develop within them strength rather than weakness. And now it is giving its full strength, power and support to the Priesthood and the Church in this last great project. Relief Society women are constantly striving for greater knowledge and understanding of the world we live in—for knowledge of the laws of health, science, economics, morals and religion. Their chief study, however, is religion—the Gospel of Jesus Christ. They stress the importance of good homes and the proper rearing of children. We as Latter-day Saints have constantly been taught that the great object of the Church is to assist in the establishment of the Kingdom of God here on this earth. Recently in an address before the students of Brigham Young University Brother Stephen L Richards discussed the subject in a most interesting manner. He began thus: "How can we establish the Kingdom of God? By living, teaching, and establishing the laws of that Kingdom. What are the laws of that Kingdom? They are the decalogue and the Gospel of Jesus Christ." Relief Society women stand firmly for the observance of the great moral laws of the Bible. They stand firmly for the Gospel of Jesus Christ which has been fully restored. Their constant desire is to observe all the laws of the Kingdom, to live up to
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 345
all of the teachings and requirements of the Gospel and to be considered and known as orthodox Latter-day Saints.
ADDRESS By President Louise Y. Robison
WE are near the close of this wonderful Conference. I wish I had words to express my appreciation to our Heavenly Father for His Spirit that has been with us, for the beautiful weather we have had, and for these marvelous singers. In all my life I have never heard anything lovelier, and I do not expect to, not only in this life, but in eternity. It gives me great joy to give these sisters a blessing for themselves and for their families who have made sacrifices in order that they might come, some of them a long way. We have been blessed with the visit of our Hawaiian sisters. I am sure those who have had contact with them will never forget their wonderful testimonies, their loving, sweet spirits, their beautiful, colorful leis, and how freely they have helped us in all of our gatherings. I have never experienced anything more thrilling in my life than my visit to these wonderful women—to their wonderful people. I said at the time, I had wondered when I was a young woman why missionaries were sent to those far-away islands when we were just settling this valley and hardly had homes of our own—why send missionaries such a long distance to the Sandwich Islands? But when I met these people, saw their faith—the real blood of Israel—I could see why. I am sure you will let me express to Sister Salm and her sisters our love for them, and our aloha, and ask them to take it to their people when they return home. We have so many things for which to be thankful. A few days ago I picked up a little book that President Grant had given me, entitled Finding God in Millersville. I had read this interesting narrative many times, but never before realized that the ideas which changed Mr. Thornton from a man who did not believe in God to an earnest, ardent worker for humanity were the very principles which were given to Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Those of you who have read the book will remember Mr. Thornton's early business life; he was quite sure there was no God and thought only of material profit. Then a change came. Let me read a few paragraphs: "Gradually, as I got nearer to my people, they began to move in close to me. Without realizing it until long afterward I had made my first great religious discovery. I had discovered my fellow men—my brothers. The closer I got to them, the more I admired them. The amount of love, and patience and simple faith in the average lowly man and woman became to me nothing short of marvelous. Men whom I had always regarded as rather slow-
346 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
witted, ordinary fellows, I found to be real heroes when I got under their skins. Human personality became to me the most marvelous and precious and wonderful thing in the world." It is the human personality which Relief Society is trying to develop; it is seeing beyond the service the real heroes and heroines and meeting them with love and patience. As evidence I have here a report of the activities for last year of our wonderful women. Only last month the stakes were asked for a report of the work done by Relief Society for the Church Welfare. This is entirely distinct from the annual Relief Society report. One hundred twelve stakes responded within two weeks' time. This is the compiled report: 629,325 quarts fruit and vegetables canned. 7,792 pounds fruit and vegetables dried. 195 glasses jelly. 25 pounds soap. 2,676 quilts made. 84 rugs made. 1 mattress and 5 sheets made. 11,902 articles of clothing—this includes 17 layettes. $12,422.01 in cash. Seventy-five stakes reported successful gardens planted. Figures, however, do not tell the real story. If there were time I would like to read the 112 reports, as they are all equally inspiring, but as that is not possible I have taken a few of the first received at the office: "In January, 1938, a cooperative program on sanitation, beautification and thrift was carried out by the Elders' Quorums and the Stake Relief Society. A definite assignment was given for each month from January to October. The program included fighting flies and weeds, planting vegetable and flower gardens, installing and painting sanitary toilets and rest rooms, and screening doors and windows. The climax was a flower show in September which was a grand success. A great deal of activity was reported, our visiting teachers and the elders gathering the reports. An educational questionnaire was carried by the stake board on special visits to wards. The object of this was to teach mothers how to buy, and what should be made and produced at home to meet the minimum standard of living. There was splendid response to this. In June, 1938, the ward bishops and Relief Society presidents made a survey of the welfare produce and clothing on hand in their wards. The results of this survey were compiled and a system of exchange of produce between wards was carried on, which was a great help." Another stake reports: "A year ago it was called to our attention that our stake was at the very bottom of the list in our region when it came to the payment of fast offerings. We knew that the success of the Welfare Plan rested largely upon the payment of fast offerings together with other voluntary contributions. So we, as Stake Relief Society officers, decided we would try and do something about it inasmuch as it is the mother in the home who plans the meals, orders the groceries and administers much of the family income. Therefore, we felt that the women in our stake were just as much to blame for the condition as the men were." Plans were made and executed and the report concludes: "While we do not wish to claim credit for this, there has been a substantial increase in fast offerings during the last year." Another stake reports: "Ninety-three families have been taught how to can their own fruits and vegetables, with the use of a pressure cooker. Six hundred eighteen hours have been spent in sewing—sixty-eight women donating their services and ninety-six women being instructed. Twenty-eight women sewed one article for themselves and one article for the Welfare Center. Thirty families have been assisted with new and used clothing and quilts. Several talks on beautification and gardening have been given in each ward. Plants, seeds and bulbs have been exchanged, very choice flowers raised, many homes painted, meeting houses and grounds improved and some vacant lots cleaned of weeds. Where school delinquency is found to be due to lack of proper clothing, we have supplied this so that children might continue their school work and feel at ease with other children." From another stake the Relief Society officers of all the wards urged the women to raise good gardens and can surplus vegetables and fruit for winter use. If any of the women did not know how to use a pressure cooker someone was sent into the homes to teach them. There was also much surplus canning done in the homes and turned over to the bishops for Church Welfare. One ward reports they have a family where the mother is nearly blind. Relief Society women do the sewing, mending and darning for this family as well as supplying the needed bedding. Only three days after Sister Lund
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 347
had sent the request for these reports, the following report was received, written by hand: "We have a stake sewing center well supervised by an efficient Relief Society sister where women from all our wards come to work. Some of these women have been taught sewing from the first step. We also have a loom, with one of our women in charge, where hundreds of yards of rugs have been woven for the needy and also for custom work." One stake prepared its report under "Wards," "Priesthood Projects," and "What Relief Society Did Toward Helping the Projects." Where the Priesthood project was the production of sugar beets, the Relief Society women served hot dinners to 60 men in the spring at time of planting, and again to 35 men when the crop was harvested. Where tomato and corn raising were the projects, Relief Society canned 1,600 cans of tomatoes and dried 750 pounds of corn. This stake reports this interesting item: "During the summer months of last year the janitor in one of the wards asked his bishop for a two months' leave of absence. The general fund of Relief Society in that ward was entirely depleted, so the president asked the bishop to let the women do the janitorial work for those two months, receiving the janitor's compensation. This was done and the Relief Society general fund was increased $80." One stake reports: "$600 has been contributed to the stake presidency for welfare purposes by the stake Relief Society. Eight hundred articles of remodeled clothing have been supplied, and Relief Society women have been sent into
348 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the homes to teach and assist the families in sewing. The Relief Society furnished 354 women and the bishops 82 men to do 940 days' canning. One ward conducted a farm project in which 30 women spent 4 days cutting corn from the cob. These same ward Relief Society women donated the food and served 125 meals to men while they labored on this ward farm. Several of our wards have purchased cookers and sealers and paid a woman to go into the homes of needy families to take care of fruit furnished by the bishop, or vegetables grown in their own gardens. As a special project to help forward the Church Welfare Program, the Relief Societies have made a plea for every home to have a garden. The response has been very commendable. A very large per cent of our members have grown sufficient vegetables to supply their own needs as well as to can for winter use." THESE reports are so interesting and vital that I find it difficult to leave them. I must read one more item and this time I shall mention the name. I quote: "Walla Walla did a unique thing. This ward was not a part of our stake when the budget allotment was made, but they desired to do something for the welfare work. Each woman received ten cents from the Organization, and was asked to put the ten cents to work and bring back as much as she could from the investment. One woman bought eggs, set a hen, sold fryers and returned $1.50. Another sister bought ten cents worth of beans and brought back $5. Another invested in tomato seeds and returned $3." I could tell you many interesting happenings, but from the money invested Walla Walla Relief Society purchased two barrels of flour for the storehouse. An outstanding item from one of the stakes reads: "Members of Relief Society in one ward cared for two little motherless girls while the older children attended school for nine months." I feel very much like Sister Wendelboe of Cache stake, who added a postscript to her reports as follows: "Our activities are many more than the ones I have reported, but the women do so many kind and thoughtful acts, and when they have finished they think no more about them; so in this way many activities are not reported." If the Savior were to ask today, as He once asked His disciples: "What do ye more than others?" these reports would be the answer. This type of activity is only one phase of Relief Society work; it does bring us close to the needs of others. In our desire to serve those of our Father's children who are in distress, we strengthen our own faith. We realize that our first responsibility is to our children, to teach them faith in God and help them to understand the principles of the Gospel. In this important work, women receive help through Relief Society. Mothers gain insight into many problems of child-life by discussing their problems with other earnest women who are eager to improve. Young mothers are benefited by the calm faith of older sisters who have reared their families. Only recently a young grandmother expressed concern that her daughter and other young mothers today do not have the faith-promoting influence of mothers and grandmothers, as girls and young women of her generation had—women who had joined the Church in foreign countries, who had given up comfortable homes, and without regret had walked across the plains and established homes in a new country. Their testimony of the truthfulness of the Gospel, and the calm positive assurance of the power of faith had a lasting effect upon the lives of young people. Relief Society must try to develop this same faith. We must help our young people to distinguish between the essentials and non-essentials in life. In a recent testimony meeting a member of the General Board told us of an early experience which had stayed in her memory all her life. Her father had taken a load of hay to the city, and it was long past the time when he was expected home. The mother was greatly worried, but she took her very small children into the bedroom with her, and each of them offered a prayer for the father's return. A short time after this mother and her children had prayed, the father came. Prayer was answered. To those small children this established the fact that there was a Father in Heaven who did answer prayer. This was a beautiful foundation—so easy to establish, but wise mothers must continue to build. Faith is peculiar—it can grow stronger even in the face of hardship and sorrow, or it can and does leave if one neglects to nourish it. The more prayer becomes a regular habit, the easier faith grows. Mothers who keep the Sabbath Day as we are taught it should be observed, who help children to understand
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 349
why, who teach them the sacred privilege of partaking of the Sacrament, the importance of honesty, truth and sharing with others, make faith in God a part of their lives. I pray God our Father that He will bless you, and let us blend our prayers with those of the heart-broken women of Europe—our sisters—that their burdens will be lightened. May our Father bless you with influence in your homes that your children will love the Gospel. One of the sweetest things that can come to parents is to have a child know the Gospel is true, and have a desire to work for it. I do want to thank you for coming to this conference; it has been a joy. My heart is so full of gratitude to my Heavenly Father. We have prayed for this conference, that we might give you something that would help you carry on your work. A week or ten days ago the General Board of Relief Society held a fast meeting, a prayer meeting, that our Father in Heaven would bless us both yesterday and today and throughout this conference, that you sisters would have the Spirit of the Lord, and bring it with you and have your hearts filled with it. I want to thank Him for answering our prayers. I want to thank you for making these prayers possible. May God bless you and take you home in safety and keep you until we meet again I ask in His name, and I do it with all the earnestness of my heart. I do know that God lives; I do know that He answers our prayers; I do know that He loves you sisters who work for His children; and I do know that He will bless you.
ANNUAL REPORT Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
IT gives me great pleasure to acknowledge the services of the stake and mission secretaries. They have been most cooperative and responsive to every request made of them. The reports were in excellent condition this year, with quite the usual number of perfect ones, the others showing slight errors which we are sure the experience of the present year will correct. This has been a year of phenomenal growth in the number of organizations. The following is the detailed statement of new organizations and reorganizations since last conference:
ORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Appointed President November, 1938 Nampa (Taken from Minnie Rose Boise Stake) November, 1938
March, 1939 Weiser (Taken from Edith H. Brown Boise Stake) Provo (Taken from Inez B. Allred Utah Stake)
REORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Appointed President January, 1939 Blaine Jennie Sanford Eva Pond January, 1939 Liberty Cornelia S. Lund Emma G. Phillips February, 1939 Taylor Allie R. Jensen October, 1938 Teton Edna Atchley March, 1939 Utah Stake Myrtle N. Passey Emma Cordon Achsa E. Paxman Edith Y. Booth
Teach-Tithing Campaign
ONCE again we call the attention of Relief Society organizations to the annual Church-wide teach-tithing campaign. From the Progress of the Church we quote: "A short talk on tithing is planned to be given in every meeting of Aaronic or Melchizedek Priesthood, and all of the auxiliary associations, during the month of May." The influence of mothers upon family members with regard to the observance of this great law is a potent one. "A wife and mother fully converted to the law of tithing usually means a household where this obligation is met." We desire all Relief Society organizations to give careful attention to the request of the Presiding Bishopric that short talks be given at the regular meetings during the month of May.
General Relief Society Consolidated Statement Of Cash Receipts And Disbursements Stake, Ward and Mission Reports, Year Ended December 31, 1938 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
Balance Cash on Hand January 1, 1938: Charity Fund $ 62,622.22 General Fund 114,372.53 Annual Dues — Wheat Trust Fund 3,999.51 Stake Board Funds 39,811.41 ----------- $ 220,805.67
Cash Receipts: Charity Fund $107,703.40 General Fund 144,067.65 Annual Dues 30,897.56 Stake Board Receipts 60,910.76 ----------- $ 343,579.37
Total Cash to Account for $ 564,385.04
Cash Disbursements: Charity Fund $ 83,594.82 General Fund 153,227.62 Annual Dues 28,865.65 Wheat Trust Fund 68.00 Stake Board Disbursements 60,498.50 ----------- Total Disbursements $ 326,254.59
Balance Cash on Hand December 31, 1938: Charity Fund $ 86,730.80 General Fund 105,212.56 Annual Dues 2,031.91 Wheat Trust Fund 3,931.51 Stake Board Funds 40,223.67 ----------- $ 237,630.45
Merchandise on Hand January 1, 1938 $ 10,208.29 Merchandise Received 21,958.10 ----------- Total Merchandise $ 32,166.39
Merchandise Disbursed $ 19,105.85 Balance on Hand December 31, 1938 13,060.54 ----------- $ 32,166.39
Consolidated Statement Of Financial Condition Stake, Ward and Mission Reports, At December 31, 1938
ASSETS Cash on Hand, All Funds $ 237,630.45 Cash on Hand, Presiding Bishop's Office 499,974.74 (Wheat Trust Fund) Other Invested Funds 27,648.40 ----------- $ 765,253.59 Real Estate and Buildings 94,181.30 Furniture and Fixtures 252,547.07 Other Stake Board Assets 106,005.66 ----------- $1,033,806.32
Other Assets 2,146.33 Indebtedness $ 106,294.79 Stake Board Net Assets 925,365.20 ----------- Balance Net Assets $1,033,806.32
Membership, January 1, 1938 Executive Officers 16,026 Visiting Teachers 25,486 Other Members 332,552 ----------- 75,064
Increase: Admitted to Membership During Year 13,471 ----------- Total Membership and Increase 88,535
Decrease: Removed or Resigned 7,269 Death 1,026 ----------- 8,295
Total Membership 80,240
Membership, December 31, 1938: Executive and Special Officers 18,392 Visiting Teachers 26,081 Other Members 35,767 ----------- 80,240
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 353
The Total Membership Includes: General Officers and Board Members 24 Stake Officers and Board Members 1,493 Mission Presidents and Officers 108 Number of Stakes 124 Number of Missions 35 Number of Relief Society Ward and Branch Organizations 2,002 Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts 14,678 Number of L. D. S. Families in Wards 152,709 Number of Relief Society Magazines Taken 43,252 Number of Executive Officers Taking Relief Society Magazine 1,503 Number of Meetings Held in Wards 57,996 Number of Stake Meetings Held 2,433 Number of Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held 1,250 Number of Ward Conferences Held 1,554 Average Attendance at Ward Meetings 36,526 Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers 1,055,618 Number of Families Helped 16,507 Number of Days Spent with the Sick 32,978 Number of Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound 208,061 Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial 1,478 Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers 7,987
COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS 1936 1937 1938 Paid for Charitable Purposes $66,189.48 $67,632.09 $83,594.82 Total or Present Membership 73,062 75,064 80,240 No. Of Relief Society Organizations 1,782 1,918 2,002 No. Of Relief Society Magazines Taken 40,075 41,721 43,252 No. Of Days Spent with the Sick 39,929 36,477 32,978 No. Of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound 215,260 204,125 208,061 No. Of Families Helped 15,152 16,185 16,507 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Officers to Wards 6,690 7,595 7,987 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Visiting Teachers 986,687 991,623 1,055,618
DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY Stakes Missions Arizona 2,953 Argentina 173 California 3,880 Australia 184 Canada 1,410 Canada 97 Colorado 523 Europe 4,483 Hawaii 398 Hawaii 535 Idaho 12,188 Illinois 182 Montana 1,052 New Zealand 225 Nevada 1,017 Ohio 490 New York 334 South Africa 155 Oregon 1,254 South America 109 Utah 41,333 United States 6,664 Wyoming 2,181
-----
Total Membership in Stakes 66,410 Total Membership in Missions 13,830 Total Membership in Stakes and Missions 80,240
(Note: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various wards, with the exception of the Annual Membership Dues.)
LESSON DEPARTMENT FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Youth Faces A World Of Change Lesson 8 By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, California)
YOUTH always faces a new world,—new to it,—but the present younger generation faces two conditions that no younger generation has faced in American history: I. They are fewer in number, therefore more in a minority. In the past, this has been a nation of youth. The frontier was pushed back, the West was conquered, the Civil War was fought by young men,—largely a group that would now be "college boys". Taking 21 as an arbitrary line of division, it will be found that 75 years ago half of the entire population of the United States was under 21 years of age. The falling birth-rate has changed this situation. In the United States as a whole only one-third of the population, in Southern California scarcely more than one-fourth, is under 21 years of age. In other words, where youth was formerly in equal numbers with its elders, it is now outnumbered two to one, or, in Southern California, three to one. This is becoming a nation of old people, who are inevitably inclined to run things from their own point of view and unconsciously for their own benefit (witness the great crop of old-age-pension schemes). Inevitably, this tends to make the young feel that there is no place for them in the world. This deprives society of the enthusiasm, idealism, and energy of youth, which it sorely needs; and probably tends to make youth more radical and revolutionary, more inclined to protest more violently, than is normal for adolescence; they feel so much outnumbered that they think they can attract attention only if they shout,—to speak figuratively.
II. The gap between the older and younger generation is becoming greater than ever, due mainly to city life, where the children and parents have so little effective association,—as compared with farm life where the whole family shares in a co-operative enterprise. This intensifies the feeling of youth that it is not an integral part of society but a group apart, in opposition to, and in conflict with, the older generation. Many of the results of this changing situation are familiar to every thoughtful person. For example:
1. Small families (the average in the educated part of the American population is now two children, which means that there are just as many families smaller than this, as there are larger) give the child less chance to learn family relations, to acquire the habit of give-and-take, to practice the invaluable art of respecting other people's rights; of protecting himself from the older and stronger while in turn protecting the younger and weaker. Parents may have more time for work, more freedom for play, if they have fewer children (obviously, they would have still more if they were childless, and some deliberately adopt this extreme course); but this is offset by the lack of that experience which parenthood brings to the enrichment of life, and is also offset tragically by the greater loneliness and feeling of frustration and failure later in life. During the World War a German psychologist published a study of 100 married couples, each of whom had had but one child, a son, and had lost this only child in battle. It was a tragic story of defeat and despair that the interviews brought to light. But disease or accident may leave parents childless, just as surely as
war. Beyond this, history is filled with the remarks of those who, at the close of a life spent in the pursuit of fame, have described bitterly the futility and disillusionment of it all, agreeing with The Preacher that "All is vanity." But I do not remember ever reading of a father who, after successfully bringing up a worthy family, expressed regret over a misspent life. 2. The modern family is more independent,—too often detached from its kinship. The whole burden of making a success in life is placed on two young people,—husband and wife,—without the help they would have had, in the pioneer period, from friends and relatives. At the same time, there are fewer social RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 355 controls,—less pressure on them to make a success of marriage. They are perhaps in a large city where no one knows them and no one cares what happens to them. Society seems determined to make it as hard as possible for them to succeed, as easy as possible for them to fail! High schools and colleges, even some churches, have been slow to do anything practical that would enable young people to marry more successfully. Fortunately, a nationwide interest in the subject is now manifest, and conditions are changing for the better. The spread of family relations courses in the schools, the establishment of clinics and counseling centers like the Institute of Family Relations in Los Angeles, will make it possible for many persons to get help who in the past have groped blindly. 3. The modern, urban family is loosely integrated,—it is not a tightly knit unit (one for all and all for one) like the pioneer family which more nearly represents the normal, biological, family unit. There is less training for character and citizenship in it (no matter how much responsibility the schools may assume, the home must still take primary responsibility for training children in character, religion, health, and recteation), because there is less sharing of activity. The family's advantages in this respect increase proportionately with the number of children it contains. The farm family has a great advantage over the city family. Every measure that strengthens rural life, that gives the farmer justice, that makes the farm more attractive to young people and keeps them on it, 356 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is indirectly a measure to strengthen the nation's family life. The farm family does for its members, naturally and well, a lot of things that the city schools can do for their pupils only with difficulty and at great expense. 4. The family is individualistic. Each child gets more attention, and the individual rather than the family is the collective unit. 'This makes it hard for the child to adjust to life later, when he goes out into the world and has to get along with other people. The resulting lack of "'adjustability" is a handicap in many ways. Some young people fail to marry, because they have not learned how to get along with others. Dr. Joseph K. Folsom has calculated that, where a girl one hundred years ago could choose a satisfactory husband if she had five eligible men to select from, her granddaughter today must know 25 eligibles in order to have a chance to make as satisfactory a choice as her grandmother made. This results from the greater variety of patterns and backgrounds (emphasized in the first lesson of this series) and the less tolerance that people today have. Incidentally, how many unmarried young women today actually know 25 eligible men? There is probably less harmony among those who do marry. It is sometimes alleged that the increasing divorce rate does not show married people to be less happy than in "the old days," but merely that they will not put up with as much unhappiness as their ancestors did. Where their ancestors suffered in silence, they will get a divorce. There is some truth in this, but it is far from the whole truth. No one can apply it seriously to such a condition as that existing in Los Angeles County, where an actual majority of all marriages end in the divorce courts! If it is true that we won't put up with difficulties the way our grandparents did, it is also true that we can't,—we have never learned how. The consequence is an increase in all sorts of maladjustments, neuroses, and actual insanity, as well as in marital misery. Such problems as these urgently demand attention today. Families of normal size, with the children growing up to be "family-minded," will avoid many of the social and emotional difficulties associated with the present all-too-common one- and two-child households. A more closely knit family life, with more systematic preparation of young people for marriage and more help available for them after they marry, will have far-reaching influence on the happiness and success in life of both older and younger generations.
Questions and Problems
1. Do you think that a "Youth Movement" helps to promote better family life?
2. What sort of chores can be found for the children of a city family, that will help them to feel that they have a real part in the work of the world?
3. What makes some women think home-makers inferior to women carrying on careers outside the home?
THE HISTORIC TRAIN LEAVES JULY 5th Write or Phone VIDA FOX CLAWSON NO. 8. SOUTH MAIN Salt Lake City, Utah 1939 for Nauvoo, Palmyra, Hill Cumorah, Church Pageant, Smith Family Farm, Sharon, Vermont—Also Carthage, Independence, Kirtland, Denver, Kansas City, Chicago, Cleveland, Niagara Falls, Albany, West Point, and the Greatest World's Fair in History—at New York, Washington, D. C., Montreal, etc.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 357
4. Do children tend to prevent the desire for divorce or merely to prevent the carrying out of the desire? What makes you think so?
5. What kind of social, economic, and industrial changes are likely to affect family life during the next ten years? What effects do you think these changes will have on the family?
Beauty In Your Milk Bottle
MILK was a beauty secret of the famous beauties of history, but today there are milk packs and milk baths, as well as milk diets for every one. The regular cream brought by the milkman is used to massage the lips and also the hands. Efficient distribution of safe, dependable milk is a vital daily factor wherever beauty and health are watchwords. As the recipes for many expensive skin creams are based on ingredients found in milk, why not
A Hollywood BEAUTY SECRET Drinking Milk... An essential part of the beauty diet of famous motion picture stars! They drink milk as an aid to beautiful skin and vibrant health. In Cloverleaf Milk you get the added benefit of extra vitamin D which helps maintain sound, even teeth.
It Costs No More Than Ordinary Milk
Cloverleaf Perfectly Pasteurized Grade A Irradiated Vitamin D Milk HOME OF FINE DAIRY PRODUCTS
358 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
use the original—right out of the bottle—says the Milk Industry Foundation. Milk farms, where women go to streamline their figures on diets in which milk plays a conspicuous part, are growing in popularity. Milk, a chief source of calcium, most important of the "protective" foods, is rich in vitamins and mineral salts. One of the great advantages of milk as an aid to beauty is its convenience. All of the ingredients of this low-cost beauty "treatment" are delivered at the doorstep every morning by the milkman. Fresh milk as a beverage promotes health, helps create good teeth, supplies minerals required for strong, supple bones, gives luster to the hair and it isn't fattening. A beauty specialist says, "Drink a quart of milk a day and protect your health; get fresh air, sunshine, rest and proper exercise if you want beauty that is more than skin deep." —Milk Industry Foundation.
Call Wasatch 3805
Arden Milk FINER FLAVOR AND QUALITY Visit Arden Dairy's New Modern Plant 1030 So. Main
SALT LAKE CITY
TEMPLE & BURIAL CLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN General Board Relief Society 29 BISHOPS BUILDING Kaspar J. Fetzer, Mgr.
CHURCH—OFFICE—STORE—EQUIPMENT Fine Cabinet Work for Church and Home Salt Lake Cabinet & Fixture Co. 32-34 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah
THE COLUMBIA ENCYCLOPEDIA In One Volume Published by Columbia University Press
A NEW encyclopedia for a new day, especially suited to the needs of the progressive American family. It contains many articles not to be found in other similar reference works, covering the revolutionary progress made in recent years in nearly every field. Complete in one convenient volume. "The best one-volume encyclopedia now available, brought up to date with 40,000 words of new material," says the New Yorker. The standard authority for home, school and office.
$17.50
DESERET BOOK COMPANY
It's New! It's Convenient! It's Inexpensive!
Our New, Convenient, Inexpensive ready-made Binder for keeping your Relief Society Magazines readily accessible with a minimum of trouble. These binders are durable, attractive, and so made that a whole year's issues can be conveniently kept, issue by issue, ready for immediate reference. And the price is only $1.00 per binder! See them in our display window, No. 8, South Main Street, or call at 29 Richards Street, for full particulars.
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah Prompt Attention Given to Mail Orders and Inquiries When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah
A Lasting Memorial to any man's family whether he lives long or dies young Is LIFE INSURANCE
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MORE THAN 40,000 SUBSCRIBERS
Choose Fisher's Vitamin "D"
HEAT WATER ELECTRICALLY It Costs Much Less Than You Think YOU CAN BUY AN ELECTRIC WATER HEATER A Product of the Fisher Master Bakers
It's New! It's Convenient! It's Inexpensive!
Our New, Convenient, Inexpensive ready-made Binder for keeping your Relief Society Magazines readily accessible with a minimum of trouble. These binders are durable, attractive, and so made that a whole year's issues can be conveniently kept, issue by issue, ready for immediate reference. And the price is only $1.00 per binder!
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS Prompt Attention Given to Mail Orders and Inquiries When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah
The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVI JUNE, 1939 No. 6
Contents
Special Features Frontispiece—San Francisco Fair...................................................360 Brigham Young Looks Out of the Documents...................John Henry Evans 361 Church Participation at the Golden Gate International Exposition..Gladys R. Winter 366 Did Nauvoo Have A Spirit?..........................................Vida Fox Clawson 369 White House Conference On Children In A Democracy....Pres. Louise Y. Robison 372 Pioneering In Welfare...........................................Franklin S. Harris 385 World Center For Women's Archives............................Virginia Driggs Clark 404
Fiction A Dime Is A Lot Of Money..................................Eva Willes Wangsgaard 375 Not Understood..........................................Lola H. Gibbons 396 The Shining Heart.........................................Sibyl S. Bowen 405
General Features Conference Addresses: Faith.................................................Elder Richard R. Lyman 380 Problems of Modern Family Life............................Caroline M. Hendricks 390 Church Welfare as Interpreted by the Relief Society...............................388 Happenings............................................Annie Wells Cannon 401
Editorials: Divided Attention........................................................402 Our ViewPoint.........................................................403
The Legend of the Green Gates...............................Edith Y. Booth 410 The Body's Need For Vitamins................................Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe 411 Mormon Handicraft........................................Nellie O. Parker 417 Notes From The Field.........................Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary 418 Music Department (Requisites of a Good Conductor)...........Wade N. Stephens 422
Lessons Lesson Preview......................................................425
Poetry Sunset Over The Temple..................................Christie Lund Coles 365 Voice................................................Anna Prince Redd 424 Story..................................................Lael Woolsey 374 For Young Mothers.......................................Vesta P. Crawford 379 The Deserted Homestead..................................Olive C. Wehr 409 A Father's Fame........................................Evelyn Wilde Heath 416 Do Good..............................................Flo Seegmiller Hall 429 I Like Your Face..................................Marguerite Burnhope Harris 430
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 580. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
Our Cover
THE BRIGHAM YOUNG MONUMENT was unveiled July 20, 1897, as a part of the Jubilee Festivities commemorating the semi-centennial celebration of the entrance of the Pioneers into the valley of Salt Lake. Elder James H. Moyle, in behalf of the Brigham Young Memorial Association, presented the monument to the public, and President Wilford Woodruff proclaimed, "In the name of God I now unveil this monument," and the stars and stripes fell away from the heroic figure of Brigham Young. Governor Heber M. Wells then said: "I now accept this monument in honor of Brigham Young and the Pioneers.
"Let us, my fellow citizens, here and now, in the presence of these surviving pioneers, whose forms are bent with toil, whose heads are whitened by the frosts of time and whose hearts are throbbing with gratitude to God that they have lived to see this day—and in the presence of all this honorable attendance let us resolve to guard well this monument, to shield it from the vandal and the marauder, to keep it as a solemn trust, to treasure it as a sacred heritage.
"As we look upon its sculptural beauty, let the granite of its base, hewn from our own mountain fastnesses, denote the hardy heroism of the men and women who founded and reared this splendid commonwealth; and let the bronze statue, carved by our native sculptor (Cyrus E. Dallin), symbolize the civilization and culture to which our people have attained.
"And now let me indulge the hope that this monument may stand on this historic spot as stands these rugged hills—'rock-ribbed and ancient as the sun'; that it may endure as they endure down through the ages and be remembered ever as a tribute of respect paid by a grateful people to their pioneers, as an emblem of half a century of wisdom, progress and as an offering of peace and good will to the blended brotherhood of Utah."
Elder B. H. Roberts in the Tabernacle that afternoon in addressing the pioneers said, "... I congratulate you that the monument which you have erected speaks only of that which is good. It will not speak of man's victory over his fellows, it will not commemorate scenes of carnage and desolation, the groans of the dying and the shouts of the victors. It speaks of the triumphs of peace, of the victory of mind over matter, of fertility over sterility; such is the story it will tell to future generations..."
GOLDEN GATE INTERNATIONAL EXPOSITION, ON TREASURE ISLAND, IN SAN FRANCISCO BAY, AS VIEWED FROM THE AIR (See article on Church Participation in this Fair on page 366.)
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVI JUNE, 1939 No. 6
Brigham Young Looks Out of the Documents By John Henry Evans
ONE of the perpetually exciting things (to me) is to watch a man or a woman rise gradually out of an old diary, an old journal, or an old letter, yellowed with age and deeply creased, to re-enact his or her part on an imaginary stage—always heroically, of course, for everyone is a star performer in his own eyes. And the merest bit of faded paper will bring back to life one of the dear departed. Not long ago, up in Idaho, a woman showed me lovingly an old notebook that had belonged to her grandmother. The grandmother had lived in Huntsville, Utah, and this was her tithing record, neatly penciled and okayed on each page by Bishop McKay, father of our President McKay. We were standing in line, waiting for our turn to pick up the various items that go into a between-meetings luncheon, and so I had little time to examine the pages of that precious document. But as I thumbed it, there arose before me a picture of its original owner. A smallish woman, this grandmother of my imagination, not so very old then. She had on a gray woolen skirt, one of those many-folded affairs, with a capacious pocket hidden away from view. It was from this pocket that she drew the notebook on this occasion. Over her shoulders, slightly bent, was a plaid shawl, on her head a calico sunbonnet stiffened with ribs, and on her arm rested the handle of a wicker basket, in which were some eggs, fresh-laid, and butter, hand-molded and all the water squeezed out. The ultimate destination of these articles was the village store, where she hoped to exchange them for sugar and spices—all but the Lord's tenth, which she delivered to the Bishop as His representative. And when the Bishop wrote the amount and added his signature, how her face lighted up, as one who had never let the Deity down!
IN the case of Brigham Young the picture is more difficult to produce, because the parts of it have to be gathered with infinite pains and pieced together, much as the children put together the parts of a puzzle map. For there are literally hundreds of journals, diaries, letters, statements, what not, by men and women who knew him more or less intimately. Only a few months ago, for in-
362 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
stance, President Grant told us a new story about Brigham Young, in which he himself figured. President Grant was a boy then. That would be when he was perhaps eight or ten and President Young about sixty-four, bearded and gray. With other boys of his own age, Heber Grant used to jump on the back of a sleigh as it sped past his home on Main Street, ride a block or two, then catch a ride back on another sleigh. And once Brigham Young came along, and Heber leaped on the runner at the rear. But when he thought to drop off, the sleigh was going so fast that he feared lest he light on his head instead of his feet. As they approached a stream coming out of the canyon, with slush in it, the President spied the boy. "Stop, Brother Isaac!" Heber, looking a bit scared, was taken into the sleigh, wrapped in a lap robe, and placed by the side of the great man. Then he was plied with questions. What was his name? Where did he live? "I knew your father and loved him very much." Was the boy warm and comfortable? And would he come and see me often in the Lion House, which was only a little way off? "Often," says President Grant, "when the bell at the Lion House rang for prayers at night, I used to go over and kneel down with the family in the front room, and upon more than one occasion, while he prayed, I caught myself looking up to see if the Lord was not actually standing there!"
THAT gives us one peep at the great pioneer's character. George D. Pyper gives another, in which is revealed the alertness and presence of mind of the President. George was about ten years old. "The President had purchased a band of small Mexican mules to be used on the street cars. These were first driven into the corral at the rear of the barn to be lassoed, then manger-broken.
"I opened the door leading from the barn to the corral and stood there watching Charles Crabtree in his effort to catch the mules. Finally he was successful in lassoing one at the far end of the corral. At the same moment the animal caught sight of the open door at which I was standing, and with an awful snort, came toward me like a Bengal tiger.
"I must surely have been killed or at least seriously injured had not a friendly hand grasped me and pulled me out of the doorway, closed the door, and shot the bolt. It was none too soon, for the mule came against the barrier like a catapult. As doors were doors in those days, the brute was stopped.
"I was awfully scared, but wholly reassured when I looked up into the kindly blue eyes of Brigham Young."
THE late Zina Y. Card, daughter of Brigham Young, told me a story that reveals the powerful sympathies of this interesting man. It was in 1856. The last of the handcart companies was dragging its tired way into the Salt Lake valley from the eastern ridge. The company had been trapped in a late November snow and blizzard back there in the mountains. Many of them had died of starvation and the cold. Rescue parties had been sent from the City, with blankets and food, in wagons that were to bring the fagged and famished survivors to safety and warmth. And now, haggard and beaten in spirit, they were entering the town amidst as much to-do as the circumstances warranted. On the sidelines was the President. Zina, who was ten, stood by his side, terribly serious, her hand in his. His face was grim and solemn, even before the appearance of the company. Perhaps he was thinking, not of those whose physical vitality had triumphed over hunger and the weather, but rather of those whose bodies had given out under extreme suffering and defeat and were now lying back there under the snow in shallow graves—if the wolves had not dug them up. Zina felt the big hand clutch and tremble and jerk alternately. Something was the matter. She looked up into her father's face. He was crying! Great tears chased one another over his cheeks and fell into the gray beard.
THEN there is that story of the hard biscuits on the Plains, while the Pioneer Company rested at Garden Grove, on the way between Nauvoo and the Missouri River in Iowa. Garden Grove was the first stopping place out from the town now being abandoned. Since spring was approaching and the companies would need a fresh supply of foodstuffs, it was decided to make use of the land here. The place was fenced therefore, plowed, seeded to wheat and potatoes. And a large number of cabins erected—all by a community of labor. The houses were to be occupied and the harvest
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 363
reaped by later comers, after the first company had gone on. Nelson Whipple, with a companion, was chopping down trees to be used in the cabins. Suddenly, dropping his ax, he sat on a log, completely exhausted. In answer to a question by his friend, he answered, "I've had nothing to eat for two days." Nelson Whipple was one of those whose food supply for the journey had become exhausted through giving away more than he should have done to those who were worse off than himself, and he was too proud to ask help of others who might have more. His companion advised him to go to President Young, but this counsel he put off with, "Brother Brigham has more than he can attend to already." However, on being pressed and seeing no other way out, he went to his leader. "You should have come to me sooner," the President chided mildly. "I haven't very much myself, only hard biscuits, but you're welcome to what I have." Thereupon he went to his wagon, took out a small bag of these biscuits, put half of them into another bag, and gave it to the young man, with—"When this is gone, and if you don't get any more by then, come back to me. Only, don't go hungry again, mind!"
BRIGHAM YOUNG had great insight into character. With many different kinds of jobs to do in the new commonwealth, he sought out men to whom he could trust these tasks. When the first missionaries left the Valley to go to Europe, he adjured them to keep a lookout for skilled workers wherever they went.
364 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The result was that there came to Utah such an accumulation of skill as no similar community ever had seen. Once the President was attending a meeting in Lehi, to the south of Salt Lake City. From the stand, before the services began, he inspected the congregation with those keen blue eyes of his. Then to the Bishop: "Who is that young man sitting by the window, at the rear left?" The Bishop cast his eyes in the direction indicated. "Oh, that is Abram Hatch." "Have him call at the stand when the meeting's over. I want to see him." And then, after the lapse of a minute or two: "Who is that young fellow on the seventh row from the back sitting next to Brother So-and-So?" "That's John R. Murdock." "Well, ask him to come up, too." Both of these young men (they were in their thirties at the time) were sent to open new communities—Murdock to what is now Beaver and Hatch to the Wasatch valley. That Brigham Young's judgment was good is evidenced by the success which these men met with in their pioneering leadership in the two places.
TO conceive large projects and at the same time to attend to small, often petty, details—this is an extremely rare quality in men, even in great leaders. Yet Brigham Young had this quality in a very high degree. That trek to the West must have been more of a heart-breaking affair than we are apt to imagine. In the first companies there were between twenty-five and thirty thousand men, women, and children. Most of these had insufficient equipment, clothing, provisions, and what not to make a journey of that length. For they had been ejected from their homes, their property taken or disposed of at the most ridiculous prices, and that expulsion had taken place before a decent preparation could be made. Besides, there were fifteen hundred miles between their lost homes and the new home in the mountains—miles that included prairie and hills and sandy desert. While the objective and the general route thither had been chosen by Joseph Smith, yet the responsibility of the trek, the execution of the plan, was left to his successor, and it is responsibility, decision-making, details, that tear at the nerves and break down the strongest men. On the Plains food had to be grown, Indians conciliated, a battalion of soldiers raised, a pioneer company selected, and a thousand particulars arranged. Besides, on account of the call for soldier-volunteers, the Mormons were on the Plains longer than they had expected. Furthermore, the plan for the trek had been materially altered by that call for five hundred able-bodied men, and their families would have to be taken care of in their absence. Later, when the stream of immigrants began to pour into the Salt Lake basin, new settlements had to be made, with good leaders, in other valleys—all according to a given plan. For Brigham Young, apparently, had decided to create an Inland Empire under the flag of the United States. It was to cover what is now Utah, Nevada, and California. Latter-day Saints in Canada and this country were to arrive by way of the overland trail; those in European countries, by way of the seas to Panama, across the isthmus, landing at San Diego, thence to be spread out over the Far West. It was a gigantic scheme, the like of which we find in no other Western pioneer. To judge the size of a mind, we look into it. When we apply this test to Brigham Young, we cannot but feel that it was of noble texture and dimensional, particularly when to this we add his large executive powers. With this vast scheme in his mind, however, Brigham Young had yet the ability to look after details and to adjust them. Did a man seek employment? He went to the President, who, instead of giving him the charity that breaks down self-respect and brings on perpetual pauperism, found work for him to do. Did a
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 365
woman have trouble with her husband? She sought out the President, and laid before him her grievance, and the President invited the fractious spouse to the office, to read him a lesson on domestic fair-dealing. Did Brigham Young, on his yearly trips to Southern Utah, sleep in a bed with bugs in it, he said to the housewife the next morning, "Sister, whitewash will rid you of those pests!" He observed whether fences were down, the lack of shade trees or fruit trees, or insufficient care for wife or children, and always told how to remedy these. There was more than a religious purpose in the "all-seeing eye" over the lintel of the first Co-op in Salt Lake City. It typified also the acute vision of its founder. If ever a man and a job were suited to each other, it was Brigham Young and the task of conducting the Western Trek and establishing a commonwealth under adverse conditions.
A SUNSET OVER THE TEMPLE By Christie Lund Coles
Gold banners trail the far, infinite blue Of the evening heaven; a roseate cloud Is inter-mingled with the orchid hue Of dusk and coming night that soon will shroud This lovely, valley world where I behold Before me now the splendor of these spires, This high arch-angel, fearless as of old, Etched on the sky by faith's undaunted fires.
How still and lifted is my heart, how clean Of worldliness, when standing humbly here I view this Temple and this twilight scene, Draw close to faiths I cherish and hold dear, Proud of each lofty tower and granite steeple— Symbols of the courage of my people.
Church Participation at the Golden Gate International Exposition By Gladys R. Winter
LONG ago, through the efforts of the Pioneers, the Salt Lake valley was made an oasis in the desert. The Church exhibit and program at the Golden Gate International Exposition at San Francisco has been credited with following this tradition. Set in the middle of a huge building and surrounded by material display and commercialism is the Little Tabernacle, a replica of the great Tabernacle on Temple Square. There it stands, set in trees, with an amazingly realistic lawn and smooth paths. There is the familiar dome, and the many doors open to let us hear organ music and see a softly lighted interior. Usually the forty-eight seats are soon filled, and the organist plays As The Dews From Heaven Distilling, which is a signal for attendants to close the doors, so the pictures may be shown and the story given. "Your building is an oasis in the desert—a haven of rest" has been repeated by people many times. Just in front of the Tabernacle can be viewed through a door of the Homes and Gardens Building a sight that seems almost an inspired setting for the exhibit—the ethereal beauty of the Court of the Moon, which has a soothing, uplifting effect. As with all the courts, this has a definite color scheme, which seems especially appointed for the Relief Society, for its colors are blue and gold. On one side of the path just below is a solid bed of deep blue pansies, on the other side an almost endless carpet of blue hyacinths. Such beauty truly feeds the soul. Just past the hyacinths is a long, rectangular pool, the tiling of which is blue, so the water matches the sky. At frequent intervals down its length are sprays of water that rise in pairs from opposite sides of the pool to form two arcs as they fall back into the middle. It is always lovely in the Court of the Moon—and peaceful.
THE lighting effects of Treasure Island, as the Fair site is called, are breath-taking. During her recent visit to the Fair Mrs. Roosevelt said, "Go from court to court, get all the reflections in the water, and all the different colors in the fountains." From all over the world people who have achieved success in every field are coming to Treasure Island for enjoyment and education. Many hear the program in the Little Tabernacle, and their interest is delightful and gratifying. A few organ selections are rendered, then a series of colored pictures are shown, while a narrator tells the story concerning them. Usually one of the Elders sings one verse of Come, Come, Ye Saints. Once when it was being sung, some of the audience joined with the singer; two or three times they have applauded; and ever so many times they have come out wiping their eyes. Many express appreciation for the opportunity of hearing our message, and invariably they remark about the courage and fortitude of our early Pioneers and the fine heritage we possess. One man whose home is in Nauvoo said, "Of course, those outrages happened before I was born, but my grandfather was one of the mob. I have heard him tell of it, and my family burn with shame because he had a part in such an affair." Another gentleman from a small town near the Hill Cumorah said, "There is something different about the place you call the Sacred Grove. I know many Mormons in that vicinity, and we are proud to have them for neighbors." There are many expressions of respect and esteem for the Church and its people. The Church Welfare Program is commented on favorably. ALMOST every state in the Union is represented in the register, as well as Alaska, Scotland, England, Australia, Hawaii, Mexico and Argentina. One can't help but thrill at the thought that a favorable account of the exhibit will be carried to homes in so many countries. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 367 number of people visiting the exhibit is much larger than was ever expected, and they are fine, intelligent people. The first six weeks 28,000 people listened to the programs. For about two weeks of that time it was quite cold, so there were compatratively few people on the grounds; and of course this was before the tourist season opened. During the ten months the Fair will run it is expected the story will be given to immense numbers. INTERIOR OF LITTLE TABERNACLE WHERE MISSIONARIES ENTERTAIN WITH AID OF ORGAN AND PICTURES. Of special interest to the people of the Church is the Temple of Religion and Tower of Peace. This building was constructed by the combined efforts and donations of most of the recognized churches. Our Church made a substantial contribution. President Stephen H. Winter of the San Francisco Stake was chosen as one of the Board of Directors. A Salt Lake architect helped plan and design the building. Although no doctrine may be disseminated, opportunity is given for each church to have one or two objects on display which deal with its history or something specific con- 368 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cerning its religion. The Latter-day Saint display is the large plaque "The Glory of God is Intelligence," used at the San Diego Exposition. There is also a copy of the first edition of The Book of Mormon, published in 1830. At the end of the Hall of Exhibits is Friendship Walk and beside it is the chapel which seats about 250 persons. 'The various churches alternate in furnishing speakers and music for services. Two TABERNACLE A VIEW OF FAIR VISITORS LEAVING THE LITTLE TABERNACLE AFTER BEING ENTERTAINED BY THE MISSIONARIES. Days have been assigned to the Latter-day Saints so far, May 7 and June 25, for what is called Vesper Services. S we leave the Temple of Religion, we skirt the edge of the Lake of Nations to reach the Utah exhibit. The display from the state of Utah is on the east side of the island, located in the center of the block, Ushaped building that is called the Hall of Western States. Here each of the western states and British Columbia have a separate room. In the room where Utah is reptesented, our attention is caught by a perfect miniature of 'Temple Square. It is beautifully done and entirely to scale, and gives a splendid impression of the famous landmark. Altogether, Utah is well represented at this great Fair, but I think its best representation is the staff of young missionaries who give the programs in the Little Tabernacle. At present there are six full-time missionaries from the California Mission; six stake missionaries, three each from the San Francisco and Oakland Stakes, help in the evenings and on busy days. Those who are under the Mission jurisdiction stay from one to two months, then are replaced by others. Each is so fine in his particular way that the feeling of loss is keen when he is transferred. The visitors who come to see the exhibit cannot help but be impressed with these clean, intelligent, fine young men and cannot help but realize the value of the church which they represent. "By their fruits ye shall know them." ASEl~ "Every individual ought to resolve and strive and determine to do more, and be more than he is. You owe it to the world to give not simply the best of which you are capable but the best to which you can possibly aspire." —George H. Knox. Did Nauvoo Have A Spirit? By Vida Fox Clawson "The exiled Saints came flocking into Nauvoo in the summer of 1839." ago the Saints were indeed in a sorry plight. For months their enemies had persecuted them almost beyond endurance: Many had been beaten, aye even murdered, and by ruffians, too, and driven from their homes en masse, while their Prophet-Leader was imprisoned. Just what should happen to them no one seemed to know. However, the Prophet's words from Liberty Prison indicated that, while no place had presented itself, still he was undaunted in his determination to keep the Saints together. At the time of the flight from Missouri the good people of Quincy, Illinois, opened their arms, and many of the Saints were being sheltered, temporarily of course; for no good member of the Church would ever think of becoming a perpetual leaner. Within the breast of every true one of them burned a desire to once more gather together and build anew! One wonders that with all their heart-breaking experiences this desire was still alive; but it must have been, for when Dr. Isaac Galland, in a spirit of charity, proferred his lands in Commerce at a reasonable rate and long credit, his offer was, after due consideration by the people in conference, and by the Prophet after his release from prison, accepted. The Prophet later said: "Commerce was unhealthy, very few could live there; but believing that it might become a healthy place by the blessing of heaven to the Saints, and no more eligible place A LITTLE over a hundred years presenting itself, I considered it wisdom to make an attempt to build up a city." It was May 10, 1839, that he moved his family to this "wilderness," and during the balance of the summer the Saints continued to gather at Commerce and to settle on lands that had been purchased by the Church Authorities. Undoubtedly, there were weak ones who wearied of the troubles that followed the Saints and decided life would be easier apart from God's chosen ones, and there were a few dissenters who could see worldly possibilities elsewhere; but the main body of the Church carried with it into the new "home" a spirit of absolute faith in its leader and the message he proclaimed. Presumably, when the Prophet announced to the people that he had changed the name of "Commerce" to "Nauvoo" and that the Hebrew word meant "beautiful location" and carried with it "the idea of rest," that announcement meant encouragement to these weary and exhausted refugees. When the purchase of Commerce was consummated, according to Joseph there was one stone house, three frame houses, and two block houses—that was all. One can easily imagine then, the endless hours necessarily spent in providing even temporary shelter for the Saints who were rapidly pouring into the little settlement! But how happy they were to have a place that would be 370 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE But alas! Nauvoo was wet; it was difficult for a person to walk through the swamps and impossible for a team to get through them; most likely the place was infested with mosquitoes. Due to their late exposures and drivings, the people were in an extremely run-down condition, and many fell sick with the deadly malaria. And then what? Did their faith in their Prophet-Leader persist? Undoubtedly there were complainers; perhaps there were some who hurtiedly moved their families back to Quincy or elsewhere as soon as the "sickness" set in; but for the most part, in spite of this new calamity, they had the spirit of absolute faith in their leader and in the message he proclaimed. How pleased our Heavenly Father must have been with this spirit, and in His great compassion He justified their faith. From Wilford Woodruff's Journal we read the following: "In consequence of the persecution of the Saints in Missouri and the exposures to which they were subjected, many of them were taken sick soon after their arrival at Commerce, afterwards called Nauvoo; Joseph had filled his house and tent with them, and while meditating upon the situation he had a great desire to attend to the duties of his office. On the morning of the 22nd of July, 1839, he arose from his bed and commenced to administer to the sick in his own house and dooryard, and he commanded them in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ to arise and be made whole; and the sick were healed upon every side of him. "Many lay sick along the bank of the river; Joseph walked along up to the lower stone house, occupied by Sidney Rigdon, and he healed all the sick that lay in his path. Among the number was Henry G. Sherwood, who was nigh unto death; Joseph stood in the door of his tent and commanded him in the name of Jesus Christ to arise and come out of his tent, and he obeyed him and was healed. Brother Benjamin Brown and his family also lay sick, the former appearing to be in a dying condition. Joseph healed them in the name of the Lord. Af ter healing all that lay sick upon the bank of the river as far as the stone house, he called upon Elder Kimball and some others to accompany him across the river to visit the sick in Montrose. Among the number were several of the Twelve. On his arrival, the first house he visited was that occupied by Elder Brigham Young, the president of the Quorum of the Twelve, who lay sick. Joseph healed him, then he arose and accompanied the Prophet on his visit to others who were in the same condition. There were many sick whom Joseph could not visit, so he counseled the Twelve to go and visit and heal them, and many were healed under their hands." AFTER the miracle, a renewal of faith swept over the people. No doubt they marveled one with another, and a great desire to proclaim to the world the restoration of the Gospel with all its promises came over them; and by the end of that summer the Twelve were sent without purse or scrip to preach the Gospel to the people of Great Britain. To so small a community it must have been a great loss to have so many important figures leave at once; not only a loss, but the families of these men were left to be taken care of. All were poor in worldly goods, but not poor in spirit. They cared for one another, they worked together, they prayed together, and confidently they looked to their Prophet for guidance. Through this spirit of cooperation which was among them, Nauvoo literally rose from the swamps! It is interesting to note the words of Heber C. Kimball upon his return from his mission in July, 1841: "You know," he writes, "there were not more than thirty buildings in the city when we left about two years ago, but at this time there are 1,200 and hundreds of others in progress which will soon be finished. You will recollect. When we built our houses in the woods there was not a house within a mile of us.. Now the place, wild as it was at that time, is converted into a thickly populated village." By 1843 the population of Nauvoo was computed at about 15,000. It was at that time the most thriving, prosperous town in the State of Illinois—and it continued to grow! But the Mormons were once again becoming too prosperous and powerful, and once more the old hatred became evident. Like a rising tide it increased until 1844 when the Saints were once more living in fear, and the awful Martyrdom occurred! Deep sorrow came over the people. A new appreciation of Joseph came to them; they reviewed in their minds the deep concern he had exRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 371 hibited for them, and the sacrifices he had made so uncomplainingly in' their behalf. They had lost their friend! 'They thought of their own conversions to the message he had taught them; how often he had inspired them to follow him. They had lost their leader! How alone they felt! His greatness became evident to them, and they wondered if there would be another that could take his place. Sidney Rigdon came back from Pittsburgh and announced himself as their "guardian". Uncertainty reigned; some there were who followed him, and some there were who followed others, but for the most part the main body of the Church received the "witness" when Brigham Young stood before them and the "mantle of Joseph" fell upon him. The Twelve Apostles were sustained as Presidents of the Church. The leaders and the people united to carry out the plans of their martyred prophet concerning Nauvoo. Work on the Nauvoo House was hastened, and they likewise worked vigorously on the Temple. The Spirit of Cooperation manifested by the Saints alarmed their old enemies. Persecutions increased, and on the 21st of January, 1845, the Nauvoo Charter was repealed by the State Legislature. Supposedly disruption would take place, but instead there was more unity. It is interesting to read a paragraph from the Nauvoo Neighbor after the April Conference of 1845: "One thing further: having no charter with municipal authority to protect the rights of an innocent people, a city (Continued on page 430) White House Conference On Children In A Democracy By President Louise Y. Robison A FEELING of security for the future of the nation is enhanced when the Presidents of the United States consider the welfare of the prospective citizens—the children. Under the inspiration of President Theodore Roosevelt, the first national conference to consider the needs of children was called in 1909. Possibly because this conference was held in the White House it was known as the White House Conference. During President Herbert Hoover's administration a similar, although a larger conference, was held. President Franklin D. Roosevelt has called two such conferences; the first, as the two preceding, was called the White House Conference, while the gathering held on April 26, 1939 was designated White House Conference on Children in a Democracy. The membership of the conference totaled 585 including representatives of every state in the Union, Alaska, Porto Rico, Hawaii and the District of Columbia. The city of Washington was never more beautiful than on the morning of April 26. 'The famous cherry blossoms were abloom in all their loveliness. 'The magnolia and other flowering trees and shrubs were doing their utmost to gladden the hearts of delegates, to make them feel that this world is a wonderful place in which to live. If only people would give their best to establish peace and beauty as does nature! One's first visit to the White House is a thrilling experience. Every detail of the conference was so well planned; there was not the least delay nor confusion. After presenting tickets of admission at the east entrance, we were ushered into a broad corridor, where hang the portraits of the wives of the Presidents, then on up the stairs to the historical ballroom. Here the walls were lined with huge baskets of flowers and with beautiful mirrors reaching nearly to the ceiling. Attendants, dressed in smart uniforms with much gold braid, directed the seating in so orderly a manner that in only a moment the delegates were seated and Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor, was extending a most gracious welcome. The address by the President of the United States was broadcast. I hope you all heard President Roosevelt, as every citizen should know of his concern for all children. From his address we quote: "It is still our task to bring to bear upon the major problems of child life all the wisdom and understanding that can be distilled from compilations of facts, from the intuitions of common sense, and from professional skill... "We make the assumption that a happy child should live in a home where he will find warmth and food and affection; that his parents will take care of him should he fall ill; that at school he will find the teachers and toals needed for an educa- tion; that when he grows up there will be a job for him and that he will some day establish his own home. "As we consider these essentials of a happy childhood our hearts are heavy with the knowledge that there are many children who cannot make these assumptions. "We arc concerned about the children of the unemployed. "\We are concerned about other children who are without adequate shelter or food or clothing because of the poverty of their parents. "We are concerned about the children of migratory families who have no settled place of abode or normal community relationships. "We are concerned about the children of minority groups in our population, who, confronted with discrimination and prejudice, must find it difficult to believe in the just ordering of life or the ability of the adults in their world to deal with life's problems. "We are concerned about the children living beyond the reach of medical service or lacking medical service because their parents cannot pay for it. "We are concerned about the children who are not in school or who attend schools poorly equipped to meet their needs. "We are concerned about the children who are outside the reach of religious influences, and arc denied help in attaining faith in an ordered universe and in the fatherhood of God. "We are conccrned about the future of our democracy when children cannot make the assumptions that mean security and happiness." THE Right Reverend Monsignor Robert F. Keegan made a strong lea for character development which, he felt, would never be accomplished without a return to Teligion. Education in schools and colleges has not developed high standards nor moral stamina. Father Keegan deplored the fact that indecent literature is destroying every fine thought and action of American youth. He compared obscene literaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 373 ture to termites in the destruction of character. Mr. Homer Folks made a clear statement of the serious responsibility the nation owes the children of a democracy. He urged that we look to 1980. Probably last year or this year or ten years ago a baby was born who will be elected to make his home in the White House. How carefully we would prepare that child for this task of immeasurable importance if we but knew his name or address. As far as possible these same opportunities for development should be made available to all children, for among them are our future governors, legislators, mayors and citizens who, if properly prepared, will give us Democracy at its best. Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt urged the group to know the needs of the country as a whole—there should be no areas neglected. The afternoon session was held in the beautiful new Department of Labor building. After registering and receiving instructions, the conference was divided into four sections, each discussing specific topics as follows: Section 1. Objectives of a Democratic Society in Relation to Children. Section 2. Economic Foundations of Family Life and Child Welfare. Section 3. The Development of Children and Youth in Presentday American Life. Section 4. The Child and Community Services for Health, Educacation and Social Protection. Informal discussion of the special needs of different localities occupied three hours' time in each of these respective groups. 374 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE At a dinner meeting the chairmen of the four sections made reports of the proceedings of the various groups, and delegates were asked to send suggestions or comments to the Planning Committee. Specific questions were: 1. In your opinion, what are the most important subjects which should be considered by the Report Committee with a view to recommendations? 2. In what ways do you think the members of the Conference in the special field you represent could work with the Report Committee in the development of its program? Recommendations will be brought in a final session to be held next year. It then will be for all of us to determine the extent to which they will be translated into action. VISION By Lael Woolsey Oh, I have seen how peach trees Are lovely in the spring With palely tinted blossoms And robins there to sing. And in the summer sunshine I've known their fairness, too— Such bright leaves, green and shiny, And ripe fruit gleaming through! And then when comes October, I've seen, like flaming gold, The peach trees flaunt the autumn And greet the coming cold. But on a winter's morning They stand still, row on row— A white lace testimony To the miracle of snow. A Dime is a Lot of Money By Eva Willes Wangsgaard Behind her lay the long, dusty road that led to home and on over the river to the distant 'mining towns. To the left lay the road that led to the state highway. Straight before her were two other tines of the fork; the left tine ran on into Main Street a few blocks away; the tight one ran into the lower part of town, unless you did not turn with the bend and so went on down the farm lane to the lake. But it was not the confusion of roads that had stopped Judith. These highways she knew as well as a horse knows its way home. What held her at the corner was a serious loss. She stood looking into her purse. She fingered the coins again. She hoped it was not so, but it was; there were only one dime and a nickel in that purse, and when she had left home there had been two dimes and a nickel. She closed the purse and examined the steel clasp and its edges. That was what was wrong, she decided; dimes were so thin and her purse did not close tight. Dimes could slip out, and Judith's dime had. Well, it was gone, she thought, and something had to be done about it. Should she go home and get another? She looked at the market basket at her feet. There was not a single drop of water left on the large rhubarb leaves that her mother had held under the artesian wellstream before she put them over the bunches of asparagus to keep them J ening stood at the crossroads. Cool. The sun was hot, the dust deep, the way long; and asparagus would wilt. Besides, if she did hurry down the lane to home a mile or so behind her, her mother would be cross because she had lost the dime and because she was late, she knew. Her mother would scold too; she might do worse than that. Maybe, she reflected, her mother did not have another dime, anyway. No, going back home was not the way out, she concluded. Should she try returning to search for it, she wondered. Who could find a dime in all that dust? It would be like looking for a drop of ink in a lake. What could she do then? Two bunches of asparagus at ten cents a bunch was to buy four yards 'of calico at five cents a yard. The two dimes and the nickel were for a quarter's worth of meat for Sunday dinner. Should she get a dime's worth less meat? A dime bought a lot of boiling beef, and without it there would not be enough. Should she buy less calico? No, her mother needed four yards of calico, not two. There had to be some other way out. What was it? Then suddenly she had it. She would charge more for the asparagus. She picked up the basket and hurried on. Judith was not one to hesitate. She did her looking back as she hastened on. She usually decided and acted quickly, then faced the results squarely and bravely if need be. 376 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE | ee over the rise which supported the railroad track lived Mrs. Anderson, her first customer. She swung up the path exhibiting no outward signs of the panic in her heart. "What if she makes a fuss?" she was thinking. "What if the plan doesn't work?" She reached the door and knocked. Mrs. Anderson answered the door and greeted her with her usual indifference. It was not her customers manner that bothered Judith. That was just Mrs. Anderson's way, but she was a hard trader. Almost everything hinged on how she would teact. If Judith got by here she was all right, she felt sure. She tightened her courage. "T have your asparagus," she said and lifted the rhubarb leaves to take out a bunch. Mrs. Anderson took the thick bundle to the pantry. "How much?" she asked when she came back. "Fifteen cents," Judith answered quickly. She had to speak quickly to get it out at all. "Are you sure your mother said fifteen cents, Judith? I know I have had as much for a dime." Something was growing bigger and bigger inside Judith, and her collar felt too tight. She put her hand to her throat, but her neckband felt all right to her fingers. She'd have to see it through now, she thought. She met Mrs. Anderson's eyes with a steady gaze. "Fifteen cents," she repeated. Mrs. Anderson looked into Judith's clear brown eyes and paid. Judith's heart would have fluttered less if she could have heard her customer's thoughts. Mrs. Anderson had no reason for doubting Judith. She was used to her. Judith's mother was deaf, and the child always did the shopping and bill-paying for the family. The townsfolk seldom thought of her youthfulness. The large record book in the wardhouse of the church had it that Judith was eleven years old. Her slender body was, but her head in spite of its wreath of yellow curls was much older than that, and the townsfolk recognized the fact. All the tradesmen knew Judith. They had found out that she could tell at sight the difference between serge and cashmere, calico and percale, lawn and dimity. Even the butcher had to consider her judgment and step sharply. But Judith did not know that people considered her different. If she thought about such things at all it was to conclude that other children were queer. Just now she was stepping along briskly toward Mrs. Harwood's, the market basket swinging two pounds lighter from her crooked arm. There was nothing about her appearance to indicate the tumult going on inside. She knew that she had acted without authority and against all she had been taught. She knew what grownups would think of that sort of conduct in a child, yet she felt that it was the only way to meet her difficulty without harm to anyone. The stores would soon be closed for the Sabbath, and the shopping must be done. If the women did not want her asparagus at Judith's price, they could refuse and she could try elsewhere. They would take it, she knew, because the butcher would charge them more for less. She came to the Harwood's. Mrs. Harwood answered her knock with a quick jerk at the door. She always jerked. She began to talk in a steady stream as soon as she saw who was there. "How's your mother today, Judith? I declare, that dress is too short. What is your mother thinking of to let you go around showing your legs like that? 'There's a deep hem in it, too." She stooped to confirm the statement. "Tell your mother to let it down when you get home. “Tell her I said so. How much is the asparagus?" Mrs. Harwood always ran her thoughts into each other that way, Judith reflected. She was so busy talking that she did not question the price of the asparagus. She just paid, and Judith slipped out of her house as easily as one of the chatterer's words from her lips. Well, Judith mused, there was another nickel, which with Mrs. Anderson's contribution made the dime back; but there was still the shopping to do. She hurried to Main Street and the shopping. HEN she was on her way home. A long row of poplars cast their shadows down the side of the soft roadway. Judith swung into their cool depths, grateful for the respite from the afternoon sun. The chipping sparrows fluttered and cheeped overhead. Judith longed to put down the basket and explore the trees for nests, but there was meat in the basket. A dog might come along, she worried. The climbing would have to wait until some time when the basket contained only cloth. She trudged resolutely on. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 377 At the crossroads that marked half-way home, Judith quickened her steps. 'Then she broke into a run. Her big sister had often told her stories about Indians who hid in these willows that filled a corner near the ditch. 'They were interesting stories but dreadfully scary. The faster she ran the more real the Indians became. Then she slowed to climb the rise over the bridge of the canal. As her feet slowed her heart quieted, and she no longer felt the Indian's fingers reaching for her hair. She sauntered on after she had crossed the bridge, but she kept to the center of the road. The sides were dark with shrubs. Soon she came to the second willows. That is what the children called that second clump. They were friendly willows, she remembered happily. No Indians hid there—only pollywogs. 'There was the puddle now. She could play with pollywogs in spite of the meat because she could keep the basket near her quick hands. She began to catch pollywogs. Suddenly, she gasped! Her nimble fingers reached into the mud and pulled out a thin dime imbedded there, all covered except one tiny silver arc. "Well, of all things!" Judith gulped. "Here's where it fell out. I stopped here on my way to town. Oh, dear! What will I do with it now?" It did not occur to her to throw it away. A dime was a lot of money. She must keep it. She sat down on a tuft of grass to think over the new twist to her problem. She polished the dime on the grass and sat staring 378 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at its shining roundness. A dime was a lot of money, her thoughts repeated. It would buy a yard of lawn, two yards of calico, or a pound of beef—and now she was a dime ahead.. To charge more for her mother's asparagus, she reasoned, in order to get the meat for the family's Sunday dinner was one thing, but to do it to get a dime was quite another. She would have to give the coin to her mother, she knew, and what would her mother say? 'That depended, Judith judged, on what she told her mother. Then a long chain of experiences began to drag across her brain. She had often been punished for having told family matters in the homes of relatives, like the time when she had told how much her father's check had been, and Aunt Geneva had told her mother. 'There was the time, too, when Aunt Geneva had "pumped" her to find out what her father's letter had said about the job and about Uncle Al. Of course, Judith reflected, her mother had not known about the "pumping" and about how Aunt Geneva had stretched what Judith really had told, so she could not blame her mother for the punishment. Now Judith remembered her mother's often reiterated question, "When will you learn not to tell all you know?" That was an idea, she decided. She would tell only what she was forced to tell. She would give the dime to her mother when she got home, she concluded, tell as little as she could, and then meet what came. She could not sit here any longer. She opened her purse, wrapped the dime in her handkerchief, put it inside, and clipped the stiff catch. Then she arose and scurried to make up for lost time. GHE had to pause on the porch to catch her breath. When she entered the house, she found her mother making cookies. Her mother went on working while Judith unwrapped the meat for her inspection. "That's a fine boil,' she said. "You strike a good bargain, Judith." Judith beamed with pleasure; the trip to town was paid for by that praise. She presented the calico. "Oh, how lovely!" her mother commended her again. "The tiny red vine in the pattern will work up beautifully. I couldn't have done better myself." She wiped her hands on her full apron and threw the goods over her left arm, from which it hung down and nearly swept the floor. ""There's enough here for both you and Mildred. Put it in the sewing drawer." She gave the goods back to Judith. Judith turned to obey, but halted instead. She opened her purse, unwrapped the handkerchief, and silently handed her mother the dime. "Where did you get this?" her mother asked. "I found it." The half-truth was out. Judith stood rigid and waited. "Then you may have it," was all her mother said. "But I don't want it." Judith wondered if her mother could hear her heart beat. Her mother made a sudden turn toward the oven and sniffed. If that was really a look of inquiry Judith had seen on her face it was quickly erased by concern for her cookies. She bent to rescue the toobrown cakes. Judith stood waiting. Her mother made no other comment. Judith picked up a cookie and walked thoughtfully out of the kitchen. Like other children she looked for punishment for any action that deviated from the standard. After a scolding or a switching the responsibility slid to the shoulders of her parents. This way it remained with Judith. She could not understand. She had expected to be questioned and ELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 379 lectured. She could not know that twice that day she had met absolute trust. 'That trust and her silence made a wall within which Judith wandered around and around alone. She took the calico to the sewing drawer in her mother's bedroom. She dropped the dime into a tray on her mother's dresser. She heard it ring as it hit the bottom; she saw it lying flat in the tray; but, she discovered, it was not so easily gotten rid of. It had fastened itself more deeply into her consciousness than it had in the ooze near the puddle. A dime is so thin; it is amazing how mich one can weigh. FOR YOUNG MOTHERS By Vesta P. Crawford The days are winged and swift, _And the time is brief, I know, That we may choose and plan The path our children go. These hours will not come again, And this we realize, That soon our children shall be gone Beyond our watchful eyes. Oh we must use these moments well— Forget our doubts and fears, And give the children a lamp of faith To light them through the years. Address Elder Richard R. Lyman (April Conference, 1939) AM wondering what I can say that will not detract from the fine program you have already had in this Conference. I have always said that in my opinion the music and the flowers are as important a part of religious worship as is the sermon, and here we have both music and flowers—perfect, it seems to me, to the very last degree. When President Clark called last night and said that the First Presidency would like me to come and make a few remarks this afternoon, representing the First Presidency of the Church, I had a feeling a little like that of Brother Joseph Fielding Smith, when the promise had been made to the people in one of the stakes that President Smith was coming to attend their conference. President Smith was unable to go, and they sent in his place our Brother Joseph Fielding Smith, and when Brother Joseph Fielding arrived at the station the first thing the stake president did was to express his surprise and sorrow to think that President Smith was not there, and after he had expressed himself in that way several times, and they were riding along toward the conference, the President finally said, "My conscience, I cannot tell you how badly the people will feel when they know President Smith is not coming." Brother Joseph said, "Well, how do you think I feel?" I have said repeatedly that men may fail, but women never! I was in the superintendency of the Young Men's_ organization for about twenty years. In that twenty years the growth of the M. I. A. Was swift and effective. Some credit was due to the Young Men's Board, but I am sure it is not an exaggeration if I say that most of the credit was due to the women on the Young Women's Board. Men may fail, but women never! When Francis M. Lyman presided over the European Mission, he used to shake hands with the elders and say, "I shake your hand, and you shake mine, and we covenant with each other that we will do our best to live in accordance with the ideals and standards of the Church." In the mission field I aimed to follow his example to a degree. I have been visiting the missions of the Church now for more than twenty years and presided over the European Mission for two years. When I have met missionaries in the field, I have asked them to give me their cards containing their names, the place where we were in the mission field together, the date and the stake from which the missionary 'comes. On the card I have prepared for getting this information are the words: "On my honor I will do my best." I tell these missionaries that I will keep these cards, and when I visit a. Stake I will read the names of the missionaries that I have met from that stake. These names will constitute my roll of honor for that stake. I say to these missionaries, "When I read your name on my roll of honor, the question I will ask is: Did this missionary do the most important thing that any missionaty has to do in the mission field, and that is convert himself." Oftentimes they say, "He has not returned from the mission field." Then I ask, "Is his mother here?" If she is living, practically always the mother stands up in the congregation. Again I say, Men may fail, but women never!; I have just returned from the funeral of a mother who has a son in the mission field in Ireland. I could not help but think of the influence that lovely mother, active in the Church all her days, has had on her missionary boy. I could. Not help but think also what a tremendous influence her teachings and her example and her life are going to have upon him all his days. I was especially touched because nearly fifty years ago, while I was a student at the University of Michigan, I lost my own mother. Her teachings, her life and her example have had a greater influence upon me than all the rest of the teachers I have had combined. I say again, Men may fail, but women never! I was in Phoenix, Arizona, a week or two ago, attending conference. One of the members of the high council had assigned to him the duty of visiting all of the families in the Third Ward of Phoenix. He made the remark that he did not know how he could find the time to go from house to house and find all those of this ward who were members of the Church but whose names were not on the records. His good wife said, "If you will furnish me a little help in the house to care for the children. I will take the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 381 automobile and undertake that task." One little woman, with one automobile, visited every house in that ward and found and put upon the Church records the names of 387 people. Men may fail, but women never! MONG other things, I would like to say a word about this great Church Welfare Program. I hope that all the women of the Church are supporting it, and that all the families are making their fast day and other contributions to help those who are less fortunate. We are not to be rewarded by what we possess or what we own. We are not to be judged by our clothing, but by our lives, by what is in our hearts and by what we do for others. I have told the story a good many times of the Prophet Samuel, when he was told by the Lord to go to the house of Jesse, take his horn of oil, and pour the oil upon the head of a son of Jesse and anoint him king of Israel. Samuel went to the house of Jesse and told him that one of his sons had been chosen by the Lord to be king of Israel. Jesse had his sons appear before the Prophet. When the eldest son appeared, tall, handsome and well-diessed, Samuel thought indeed this must be the one that the Lord had selected. When he picked up his horn of oil, the Lord said, “Wait, wait, Samuel, not that one, for I the Lord have rejected him." Then came the second son, another tall, handsome, well-dressed fellow. Samuel took up his horn of oil to anoint him. Again the Lord said, "No, no, not this one, Samuel, for I the Lord have rejected him." Then came the third, fourth, fifth and sixth, and 382 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for each and every one the Lord said to Samuel, "No, Samuel, not this one, for I the Lord have rejected him." Then said Jesse, "You are not looking for one of my sons." Samuel said to him, "Have you no other sons?" Jesse said, "Yes, one other, my little boy David; he is out here herding the sheep." Said the Prophet, "Send for David." In came David, with his ruddy face, burned by the rays of the sun, his feet no doubt bare, head bare, hair unkempt, and dressed in his ordinary shepherd's clothing. 'The Lord said to the Prophet, "Take your horn of oil, Samuel, and anoint him King of Israel, for I, the Lord, have selected him." And the Lord said to the Prophet, "Remember, men look upon the outward appearance, but God looketh upon the heart." And so we are not to be judged by what we wear; we are not to be judged by our outward appearance, but by what is in our hearts and by the good we have done to our fellowmen. WAS asked to dedicate a chapel in the European Mission soon after I went to Europe. I wrote to the mission president and said, "I would like to know if all the bills are paid. The rule of the Church is that no building shall be dedicated until it is entirely paid for, and I want to know if all the bills are paid for this church." He wrote back very promptly, "Oh, yes, Brother Lyman, all of the bills are paid; they were all paid by the Church. The Church has put up the building, furnished the building, and the Church has paid all of the bills." "Do you mean to tell me, my brother, that the people have not contributed anything?" "That is what I mean." "What have these fine people done that you are thus depriving them of a blessing. I suggest that you find out what the people are able to give, and have them give that amount. We will delay the dedication with the hope that President Grant may visit Europe, that he will come after the people have made their contribution, and that he will dedicate the chapel." Remember, the widow's mite brings a blessing as rich and rare as does the rich man's millions, if the sacrifice in the one case is equal to the sacrifice in the other. The Church and Kingdom of God is to be built upon the principle of sacrifice, and our reward is to be in proportion to the sacrifice we make. I am reminded of the words of President Theodore Roosevelt, as he stood before a congress of mothers in the city of Washington and said: "Since I am speaking to a congress of mothers I shall have nothing whatever to say concerning an easy life, because no mother has an easy life. Every mother has a hard and difficult life." I say to you glorious and glorified workers of the Relief Society as did Theodore Roosevelt, "Your burdens may be heavy and your responsibilities great, but remember greatest of all is your reward." I extend my hearty congratulations to you, Sister Robison, and to all of these, your faithful associates. It is not always the giving of food and money that counts most. As I understand it, you Relief Society women are making a careful study of this great welfare problem, and you are aiming to give to the people the thing that they need most; and oftentimes advice, counsel and instruction mean more than food or clothing or money or shelter. The greatest blessing that you can give people is to teach them to stand upon their own feet. A man once told me how well he had been, how fortunate that he had been employed for many years without losing a day's labor. I said to him, "My good friend and brother, in all these years how much have you saved?" "Why, not a cent." "Why not?" "Well, Brother Lyman, I never thought of it." A young couple came into my office a day or two ago and wanted a little advice. They wanted to build a home. They had been married four years, and were paying $35 for rent, and they felt that they could add $15 to that and make it $50. I said to them, "You have been married four years, and how many months in those four years have you saved $15?" "Not one." "Why?" "We never thought of it." It is often advice, counsel, instruction that people need, and above all they should be taught to live within their income. I perform some martriages, and 1 sit down and look the two young people in the face, and tell them there are a number of causes for unhappy and unsuccessful marriages, causes for divorce, and one of these causes is finances. And so I advise them to live within their income, no matter what it is, to practice economy and take a pride in what they save rather than in fine RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 383 feathers. Far too many begin living on a scale that they cannot maintain! I have said to the people everywhere, "The most important thing that young people have to do before they reach the marriageable age is to qualify themselves to make a living. Not only ought boys to be trained to make a living, but girls also. I have pointed out a good many cases in which young women have been left widows. One said, "I cannot tell you how much I appreciate your interest in me, but I am sure you will be glad to know I have a position already, and the work is much like that you are offering me, only it pays about four times as much." I looked into the face of this young woman and marveled that she alone could get under the burden and lift it and carry it as well it seemed as she_and her husband together were able to carry it before. She had been the private secretary to the attorney general of the state for seven years before she was married. OW the greatest ambition that can come into the heart of a woman is not to be a doctor, a president, a politician or a legislator, but the mother of a glorious man. I hope that all Latter-day Saint mothers have the ability to resist temptation. We cannot have a generation of great men, powerful men, unless and until we have first a generation of strong, powerful women. You cannot produce men with the ability to resist temptation until you have produced first mothers who have the ability to resist temptation. The mother who has not the ability to resist a cup of tea may produce a 384 JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE son who will not have the ability to resist a glass of liquor. When a little woman, a widow, sitting by her soldier son, was asked if she wanted to be served with tea or coffee, said, "I will have just a glass of water, please," the son, in the uniform of our country, said, "I’ll take what mother takes." Years rolled by, and I sat across the table from the same widow when the World War was over. I said to her, "I wonder, my sister, if your son, like some of the other boys who went to war, got the cigarette habit." She answered that he did not. I wondered if it was because he had a mother who had the ability to resist temptation and thus set him a fine example. The mother who can resist temptation will, I believe, have a better chance to produce a son who will resist temptation. Now I must close. I have asked the women all over the Church what their favorite chapter in the Bible is. If you have not a favorite chapter, let me give you one. I give you the 2sth chapter of Matthew. "When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: "And before him shall be gathered all the nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats: "And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. "Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: "For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: "Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. "Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink? "When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? "Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? "And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." God bless you. Remember your burdens may be heavy, your responsibilities great, but greatest of all is your reward. A The Memory of a Mother— A man may go over all the world; he may become a pirate, if you please; he may run through every stage of belief and unbelief; he may become absoultely apostate; he may rub out his conscience; he may destroy his fineness in every respect; but there will be one picture that he cannot efface: living or dying there will rise before him, like a morning star, the beauty of that remembered goodness which he called "Mother" Henry Ward Beecher. Pioneering in Welfare By Franklin S. Harris Or of the fascinating by-prodducts of an ocean voyage is formality combined with the leisure time aboard lends opportunity to meet many kinds of people from various parts of the world in different walks of life. Therefore, when anticipating my first extensive ocean trip, which was to begin at San Francisco and eventually to continue around the world, I was naturally curious to know who might share my stateroom. When I boarded the ship and proceeded to my cabin, I found that the baggage of my companion had already arrived, and that on a number of pieces was written the name "E. J. Helms". Some of the mail there was addressed to "Dr. E. J. Helms, Boston". I saw nothing of my companion, however, until after the ship had sailed through the Golden Gate, for everyone had stood on the deck to watch the last point of land disappear. After the last outline of land faded, I retired below and found a middle-aged man of very pleasant countenance who on my entry said, "My name is Helms." Thus began our first conversation which was very interesting, as have been all of the many conversations we have had since that day more than a decade ago. It did not take long to learn that Dr. Helms was interested in welfare work in Boston and in a number of other large cities in the United States. He was the founder and head of the Goodwill Industries located in these cities and was then on his way to the Onent to investigate the possibilities of establishing the movement in other parts of the world. We roomed together as far as Honolulu, where we spent ten days and saw each other occasionally. We journeyed on to Japan together, though not as fellow cabin passengers. I saw him in various parts of Japan, in some cities in China, and later in India. I have seen him a number of times since returning to the United States and have visited the Goodwill Industries, which his organization fosters in larger cities throughout the country. The Goodwill Industries had their beginning many years ago in Boston. Dr. Helms had been sent there to take charge of a church located in the south end, which is the poor section of the city. In an effort to give help to unfortunate people in the neighborhood, an appeal was made for the more prosperous to bring in discarded clothing. The young pastor spread the various atticles out on the church pews and 'nvited the poor to come and take what they needed. So great was the clamor, it was decided to charge a few cents for the garments. It was readily seen that the articles would be more useful if mended and repaired. Why not give this work to those very people who needed the garments? Thus was born an idea which was to develop into a great industry which each year would salvage discarded articles worth half a million dollars in the city of Boston alone! Dr. Helms would frequently say, 386 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Our organization deals in waste products, human as well as other kinds." The essence of his work was to take people who were not able to care for themselves and teach them to become self-sustaining. In the early stages this was done by having them make all sorts of waste materials into useful commodities. Special Goodwill bags were placed in the homes of Boston and vicinity into which were deposited old and worn-out articles. Soon a fleet of trucks was required to bring in the goods, and factories arose to take care of their reconstruction. EARLY in his work Dr. Helms discovered that a few fundamental principles applied in practically all cases. Probably the first thing learned was that work is the foundation of all human reconstruction, and that if people are to rise from various degrees of misfortune they must work. Any person who came to the establishment was taken in, given a bath, a night's rest in a good clean bed, and a meal or two; but after about the first day it was necessary for the person to work for further benefits from the organization. Some who came were able to do nothing more difficult than to sort tags. Some were ingenious in a mechanical way. Some had skill in keeping accounts. Others could cook, wait on tables, sew, or mend shoes. Each was given the place in the organization to which he was best fitted and was paid on the basis of work done or material produced. From the very first day's work the rehabilitation began. As long as the individual was willing to work, Dr. Helms was willing to continue his help, but whenever a person rebelled against work, nothing could be done for him. Various used articles are gathered by the agents of the Goodwill Industries. Casters may have been donated by one person, mirrors by others, and the frame work of a dresser by yet another. These are taken to their shops and factories, where individuals in several stages of personal reconstruction assemble the articles into something that will have value. The process serves two good purposes: It provides work for the needy and makes available a dresser to someone of very scant means at a price he can afford to pay. The variety of articles obtainable is very great, and the Goodwill Industries in a city like Los Angeles are known by the public as a source of very inexpensive merchandise. Dr. Helms is one of those kind gentlemen whom to know is to love. He has a sense of humor and an invariable good nature, but in his presence one can never get away from the serious aspects of life and the responsibilities we all have to be our brother's keeper. His philosophy is expressed in the following quotation: "Work is the great tonic. The man, broken and discouraged, who is put to mending chairs, repairs his own fortunes and hopes in the process. Each article repaired is made more valuable. To the garment there is added the labor of man or woman who works on it. So with people.... No investment brings such returns as money paid in wages. It brightens a man up, gives him new incentive and a new outlook. Work, says the psychologist, is the greatest godsend ever given for the restoration of men." It will be of interest to many members of the Church that Dr. Helms frequently mentioned in our conversation that when prohibition was enacted there was a great drop in the need for rescue work. He said that no matter what others may say about the success or failure of prohibition, he had personal knowledge of the fact that the more unfortunate stratum of mankind was very much improved and its difficulties greatly decreased the day the Eighteenth Amendment went into effect.
THE work of Dr. Helms is of particular interest to Latter-day Saints because it is not unlike some of our own work. Welfare work in the Mormon Church is as old as the Church itself. Our Relief Societies and our Bishops have handled tens of thousands of cases in which people have been helped to rise from almost impossible situations. More than a century of experience has shown the soundness of Dr. Helms' observation of the necessity of work for human welfare. Our leaders have frequently spoken about the blessing of having something to do and of being interested in one's work—of the degenerating influence of idleness. In the early days of Salt Lake City, Brigham Young set up special projects to keep the people busy. Rather than dole out open charity, he put all the able-bodied to work digging ditches, building walls and fences, and paid
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 387
them for their labor. When the recent welfare activities of the Church took on new impetus, it became evident that there were many people without the necessities and conveniences of life who, though willing to work had none to perform. This led to the establishment of the Deseret Industries, which have much in common with the Goodwill Industries. To me it has become a matter of great personal satisfaction to see my own people and my good friend, Dr. Helms, both working toward the same end through much the same technique. All who are aware of the conditions of the world know that there are people in every community who have fallen on evil days, and through sickness or other misfortunes have found themselves without means of support. Anyone with any heart at all cannot fail to wish to help such persons find means of a more comfortable living. The temptation is to follow the easy way and make direct contributions to them. But the experience of the Church, as well as many agencies such as the Goodwill Industries, has proved that this type of help often does more harm than good, and that the kindest thing we can do is to help our unfortunate brethren by finding means by which they can help themselves. We thus preserve their self-respect and at the same time increase their independence.
"BEHOLD how weak even good men are without faith! With faith, however crude or ill-informed, you may overcome the whole world; without the faith that places God consciously at your side, you have no chance." —A. B. Bruce,
Church Welfare as Interpreted by the Relief Society
INFORMATION regarding the activities and accomplishments of the Relief Society General Board and the stake and ward organizations in the field of Church Welfare is needed by the Church leaders as well as by Church members generally. Therefore this new department is being included in the Magazine. It is designed to supply information, recognize outstanding achievements, bring an appreciation of what is being done, and stimulate increased activity. One of the most important and successful activities of the General Board since the introduction of the Welfare Program by the First Presidency is the campaign to educate the women of the Church in the wise administration of the family income and the importance of careful food selection and preparation. The influence for good of this campaign has been felt throughout the Church. One phase of this particular activity is a Bread Making Project. A survey has been made of every home in the Church. The number of women who were not making their own bread and their reasons for not doing so were determined. Then through the cooperation of county agents, the agricultural colleges and other experts the women were taught how to judge and how to make good bread, its value in the diet, and the economic factors involved. Results of this project have been gratifying. For instance, in one of the counties in Utah suffering from the depression wheat was being sold at forty-two cents per bushel; yet bread was being brought into the county in truck loads and was sold at ten cents per loaf. Many of the women of this county were encouraged by this Bread Making Project, had their wheat converted to flour and made their own bread. The economic and health benefits of this service are self-evident although hard to estimate. While it is impossible to report on all the activities of every stake, it is important to note that some stakes have demonstrated an ability to initiate and execute welfare activities that should be an inspiration to us all. Union Stake held a clinic last summer. The Relief Society ward presidents made an intensive search for cases of underprivileged and handicapped children, staying strictly with those where at least one parent was a member of the Church. They did not merely announce the clinic and wait for people to come—they sought them out. A surprising number of cases needing immediate attention were discovered. The cooperation of the community's outstanding doctors, dentists and optometrists was secured and most generous prices for work arranged. The privilege of cut rates was extended to Priesthood members needing care, with the understanding that the quorum assume the expense in cases where the individual could not. Over one hundred persons benefited from this activity and over $1,000 was paid to the doctors. The same amount of work done at regular prices would have cost $2,500 more. The Wheat Interest Fund was drawn upon heavily in meeting the expense. Where people could pay for the services themselves they did so. The money was advanced by the Relief Society in a number of instances and paid back a little at a time; for some the entire expense was assumed by the Relief Society. All cases were discussed with the bishop and his recommendation as to procedure carefully followed. Another important welfare project is being carried forward by the Snowflake Stake. A maternity home is being provided for the help and comfort of expectant mothers. The project is not yet in a perfected state, though progress is being made. A home has been rented and furnished with four hospital beds, two day beds and a kitchenette. The state has furnished a full-time paid nurse (mainly for educational work), and the county is helping pay the rent. The ward Relief Society has furnished the bedding and linen. Local women and the stake board have equipped the kitchen. The state board of health has furnished new equipment for a delivery room. N. Y. A. is helping with the housekeeping, and the county welfare department has contributed layettes and some linen. This project bids fair to be of genuine value in the community. Enlightened women in need of such service recognize that opportunities of this kind not only assure them proper care but also
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 389
safeguard their babies. An intelligent attitude toward accepting these advantages will do much to assure their continued existence, thus making it possible for many to be benefited. Acceptance of opportunity is also an expression of appreciation for the efforts of those who make the opportunity possible. It is a wonderful thing to note that many wards have found time and willing workers enough not only to carry forward the full program outlined by the General Board and interpreted by the stake boards but also to develop specific and individual welfare activities, as for instance: One ward Relief Society gave each member ten cents with instruction to put the money to work and bring back as much as she could for the organization's budget allotment for welfare work. One woman bought eggs, set a hen and sold fryers, and at the end of the season returned $1.50. Another sister bought ten cents worth of beans and brought back $5; another tomato seeds and returned $3. When this enterprise was closed, the funds were used to purchase two barrels of flour for the stake storehouse. The Relief Society has been identified with the welfare work of the Church for ninety-seven years. The experience of the years demonstrates that a welfare program within the Church is feasible and necessary. The various Relief Society units through such activities as these here reported are endeavoring to support the general welfare plan of the Church.
Problems Of Modern Family Life By Caroline M. Hendricks (Conference Address, Social Welfare Department)
IT is of great significance that such a group of active workers and leaders in this great Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints should meet together for the purpose of discussing family life. The very fact that we are concentrating our attention on a study of family problems should not only prove to be inspirational to each one of us, but it should also enhance our hope, our confidence, and our faith, in a finer type of family life for the future. Undoubtedly our neglect of the study of family life in the past, and our failure to train and prepare our young people for the responsibilities of marriage and parenthood have been largely responsible for the majority of family problems today. That we have met here by appointment to follow a definite course of discussion on family life is evidence that we are cognizant of the great importance of the institution of the family, and also that we are conscious of the fact that family life today is confronted with problems that are a challenge to family stability, problems that are so distressing that some of us are even fearful for the future of family success. If we agree with Charles W. Eliot in his statement that "The security and the elevation of family life are the prime objectives of civilization and the ultimate ends of industry and trade," and again if we are in harmony with Thomas Jefferson who said, "The happiness of the domestic fireside is the first boon of mankind; and it is well that it is so, since it is that which is the lot of the mass of mankind," then we should be justly concerned with this primary institution of society which has always been and must continue to be the foundation stone of our civilization. In considering a discussion of the subject, Problems of Modern Family Life, naturally my first thought was, which of the many problems of modern family life should I select to call to your attention. In answer to this question several other questions presented themselves, such as: Which group in our society is in a position to determine what are the problems of greatest concern; which group will suffer most in the future because of unsolved family difficulties today; which group is invited to give an expression on this subject the least frequently? The answer to these questions undeniably is: The group composed of our sons and daughters who are just approaching the age for marriage; our children who are entering that period in their lives when they will assume the responsibility of founding families of their own; they who will soon be engaged in the process of rearing our grandchildren. So with this answer in mind I decided to get the opinion of such a group and bring it to you this afternoon. Therefore I present to you as first-hand information, what our children think about their homes—the homes which we, as parents, have founded for them.
THROUGH the cooperation of several of my colleagues, I was able to contact some 450 college students. The group, I feel, represent a cross section of the young people of Utah who are attending our institutions of higher learning, inasmuch as they are members of representative families from twenty-seven of the twenty-nine counties in our state. However, in addition there may have been a sprinkling of young folk who came from communities scattered from coast to coast. The group was not selected in any way other than that these students happened to be engaged in class-room work during certain periods last Tuesday morning. The group includes college men and women from freshman to senior rank. These students were asked to list in writing, without signing their names, the three problems in their parental family which they considered to be the most distressing and difficult to handle and were causing the most trouble from a family standpoint. These problems were to be listed in order of their seriousness to family welfare. That only 5 of these 450 college men and women responded to this request in a facetious manner, is, I think, indicative of the fact that our young people have a serious attitude toward family life. Had I the time to give you in detail and in the students' own words some of the many problems as stated by them, you would be greatly impressed and also greatly surprised to learn how keenly the younger generation analyze our efforts of leadership as parents and homemakers and how they view them. But time will permit me to give you only a crude report and
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 391
analysis of my findings. I have grouped the various problems into categories, because we wish to reserve a few minutes in which to suggest at least a partial remedy for some of these most vital problems. Approximately 67% of the group listed financial difficulties as the most serious in their family: 250 said the difficulty was a lack of sufficient money, and 42 said there was sufficient income, but trouble was caused by the manner of distribution and lack of wise expenditure of the family income. Many expressed strong resentment against the vicious competitive factors to which we are subjecting our family life. This was indicated in such statements as the following: We cannot afford to have what our friends or our neighbors have; we cannot live up to the standard which mother and father try to maintain; we cannot associate with the people with whom we wish to associate because we cannot afford to do the things they do. Whenever such problems exist in family life I think it indicates a lack of courage on the part of parents to face reality and to determine their own standard of living according to their own incomes and live accordingly, rather than to follow in a herd-minded fashion the standards of living that someone else has set up in their mad effort to keep up with a third family. And so, on and on it goes, the result being a vicious circle of struggle induced by our adherence to false and useless values. Also, it indicates the lack of an appreciation of some of the most valuable elements in living, and those that offer the source of greatest
392 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
happiness and satisfaction; namely, our human relationships, our love for one another, the aesthetic values in life. True it is, though sad, that our young people are so conscious of the lack of money as to consider it the most distressing problem in family life; but this is not surprising when we consider that there are some 11,000,000 young people in the United States today, between 16 and 25 years of age, who are out of school and out of jobs. The seriousness of this condition can only be realized when we pause to consider that these years represent the mating age. Biologically and chronologically this group of young people are ready for marriage, but economically it seems they have no chance. The second category of problems includes those listed by 53% of the group and expressed in terms of parent-child relationship. The single problem which was mentioned the most frequently was the lack of companionship between parents and children. In many cases it was the mother who was away from home so much of the time that she could not supervise the children. But in the majority of cases it was the father who spent no time with his children. One student said, "We would have no problem if Dad could spend more time at home with us." Another said, "We need a father more than anything else. When Father is not at work he is in some meeting; we hardly know him." Still another wrote, "Our problem is the same one most families have—our parents have no time to spend with their children." This response is in harmony with another study made among 800 young people which showed 61%. I wonder if many children would not be willing and happy to accept the companionship of their parents as a substitute for a part of the lack of money? The third category of problems had to do with the lack of cooperation within the family. This was listed as the most difficult problem by 36.6% of the group. This covered a wide field of difficulties. Among those listed most frequently were: "Mother and father never talk over family problems with us children; we children never know why we are not allowed to do the things we wish to, but are just told no with no explanation given." "Our family never does anything together," was another statement. Surprising indeed it was to learn that in 10 families the use of the bathroom was their most serious problem. One student wrote, "Our family starts out each day with the whole family quarreling over the use of the bathroom." This problem may seem trivial to some of us, but it is not trivial when we think of the hazards to family unity and stability involved in a family beginning each day with the entire group quarreling. And more shame to this family and all families who engage in quarreling because of a situation such as the one referred to, one that could be so easily adjusted through cooperation, a little careful management, accommodation of one to another—the mere sacrifice on the part of one or the other, or each in his turn, of arising a few minutes earlier in the morning. Several students said that in their families one or two members were imposed upon by other members, and this resulted in conflict. Oftentimes in such cases parents themselves are not aware of the fact that their children feel that they are being treated unjustly because of partiality shown to some member of the group. But because it is what a person thinks is true, whether it be so or not, that influences his behavior, parents should be alert in acquainting themselves with the ideas the child has in regard to the family relationship situation. This calls for cooperation. Next came the 20 per cent who listed the husband-wife relationship as causing their most serious difficulty. This category of problems revealed arguments between parents, lack of consideration of one parent for the other, lack of efficiency, failure of the mother or father to assume his or her share of the family responsibility, and lack of agreement between parents in the handling of their children, such as disciplining them. May I call to your attention just one statement that was recorded in this category: "My father and mother have a regular quarrel every time they decide to go to a movie; they can't agree as to which show to go to, so they always spend about an hour arguing about it, then often it is too late for them to go and each blames the other." In this case the important element is that to the father and mother this repeated occurrence means nothing more than an argument over a movie, but to the children it means a conflict relationship between their father and mother. We must always remember that the seriousness of any family problem must be measured in terms of its effects on the children.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 393
Other problems listed were as follows: Emotional instability of some member of the family was recorded by 60 students; health by 52; religion 34; use of the automobile by 23; death of a parent by 22; liquor and smoking 14; in-laws by 20; and 9 out of the total of 450 reported that they had no serious or distressing problems in their families. I say fortunate indeed are these nine young men and women. I trust that even though we cannot discuss all of these problems, the mere mention of them will result in stimulating many of us to investigate and analyze our own family situation that we may more fully recognize our family problems. This is important because of the fact that the first step in the solution of any problem is to be cognizant of its existence.
HOW I wish that I had a solution to offer for all of these family problems, but that probably will never be possible. The achievement of successful family life will always remain a challenge to even the most wise and intellectual. In the first place, there is no one cause for any family problem; each problem represents a constellation of causes in which there is a sequence of incidents; likewise, there is no panacea or cure-all for any social problem. However, there must be an answer to the economic problem; there must be some way of so distributing our resources that every family will have sufficient income for essentials. When we discover that answer, we will have gone far toward the alleviation of the stress and strain that comes as a result of our imperfect
394 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
economic organization. That our economic structure does not provide economic security for our homes, and that it does not afford our children opportunity for maximum advantages is a fact of which we are all aware. And we agree, no doubt, that one of the most disastrous results of this condition is the fact that such a shortage tends to debase the fundamental ideals of family life. But I wonder if the opinion expressed by our group of students does not offer an indictment against parents from another angle; namely, against the set-up of the present-day standard of values for which we, as parents, are responsible. We cannot and we do not wish to ignore the need for money as a factor in successful living. We do desire to face the reality of the fact that the majority of families in our nation today actually need more than they have in order to provide the essentials, not to mention the cultural advantages. Even so, is not a great amount of unnecessary stress added because of the fact that we are placing too high a value on the possession of money as such? Do we not need to develop a more Christian attitude toward money? By that I mean, do we not need to look upon money as a commodity, a medium of exchange for the desirable and good things in life, and not as a means of gaining power and prestige? Should we not aim to develop an appreciation of what money can buy rather than a love of money itself? And at the same time do we not need to emphasize the importance of the type of happiness and success in family life which no amount of money can ever buy? We must place the greater value on the immaterial things in our culture. Each family must choose its level of life and strive for that level regardless of the level its neighbor is maintaining. And each family must have an appreciation of the desirability of the immaterial things as a source of happiness and satisfaction in family life. One other suggestion I desire to offer in the form of an ardent plea for the democratic form of family organization—family organization based on the marriage of a man and woman who enter into the marriage relation as partners in the true sense of the word, on a 50-50 basis, willing to share equally the sacrifices, the responsibilities, the services, and the love and happiness that such a marriage has to offer—a family in which the council method of management is adopted. The council plan of family management is a subject worthy of the entire afternoon's discussion. Just briefly I may point out that it calls for regular meetings, at least once a week, at which the entire family group is present. During these sessions it is the purpose to consider all family problems such as: The family budget, the discipline of members, the use of the automobile, the assignment of duties and privileges to each member according to his age and ability to render service; a standard of values and a goal toward which each member may strive, and which should serve as a guide for the behavior of both the individual and the group. To epitomize, it calls for a frank and honest discussion of all phases of family living with all members of the family taking part in the discussion. I believe sincerely that the family council plan of management offers the most hopeful possibility for the solution of all of the problems which the group of students have called to our attention: Financial, parent-child relationship, lack of cooperation, husband-wife relationship, health, and the others mentioned. The council plan is a significant factor in the democratic type of family. This form of family organization has been tested and proved to be the most desirable. Of 3,000 marriages of five years or more duration among college educated people which were studied by Dr. Paul Popenoe, with whom you are all familiar, it was found according to the judgment of relatives and close friends, that of the 37 per cent which were of the democratic type of family, 87 per cent were happy; of the 35 per cent wherein the man was dominant, but 61 per cent were happy; and of the 28 per cent wherein the woman was dominant only 47 per cent were happy.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 395
If we are successful in the accomplishment of improving our family life, we must realize at the outset that the future of the family does not rest with fate but lies within our own hands. And that within the family groups of today we have the builders of the family life of tomorrow; that upon the significant developments in the family more than upon the developments of any other institution depends the turning point in all human affairs. In closing may I repeat someone's prayer for the family: Dear God: We thank Thee for our homes. We are glad Thou hast set us in families. Help us to respect all homes. When we have shut the door against all that is without, May we find Thee always within. Speak Thou in our family councils; Let Thy Spirit fix our family choices. Ever be with us in our homes. In sun or shadow be present all our lot to share. Make holy that blest fellowship with those we love. May all homes be havens, since Thou art there. Amen.
God in the Darkness—
Robert E. Speer writes the following: "I was awakened the other morning about four o'clock in my room by a little voice just beside my bed in the dark asking for a drink. I got the little lad a drink, and he lay quiet for a moment, and then asked, 'Father, may I sing myself to sleep?' And I said, 'Yes, dear, go ahead.' But soon he got up so much enthusiasm that I told him he had better stop, or none of the rest of us could sleep. Then he was quiet awhile, but soon I heard his little voice again in the perfect stillness of the night. 'Father, have you got your face turned toward me?' I said, 'Yes, little boy,' and the darkness was as the light of day to him."
Not Understood By Lola H. Gibbons
"Not understood, how many breasts are aching For lack of sympathy? Ah, day by day How many cheerless, lonely hearts are breaking; How many noble spirits pass away Not understood."
MOTHER SEWELL waked, uncomfortable, after a startling sense of being pushed and shoved along a dark road. She looked at the clock on the chair—4:50. She drew one arm from under the covers, but a sharp pain in her shoulder caused her to draw it back quickly; and knowing that when she would move her legs the pain would shoot across her back, resentment welled up in her mind. She stretched forth the other arm to reach for Jane's letter. "Ouch," and the arm was drawn back with a resigned sigh. "Oh what's the use? I know what it says—every word: 'Dear Mother mine: I'm going to tell you something thrilling! I've thought it all out. You're coming to live with me this winter. You will, won't you? I'm coming after you next Friday, and we'll be back here Sunday night. You'll just have to come. We've all decided. Edna is going to give up her apartment and take care of the home for you. Helen and Etta will help you get ready. Al can take care of the cows and chickens. You'll have not one single thing to worry about. And Mother, we live just under the college hill, and you can go to school again!' " Three days ago this letter had come. So soon after the funeral—even before the last flowers had withered and been thrown away—and it had turned everything topsy-turvy; and she hadn't been allowed one hour for rest and quiet and remembering, which she felt she needed so badly after the ordeal of burying her life's companion. And she was oh so tired. Immediately, the day the letter came, Edna had moved right in and the other girls had come with their babies, and oh what a lot of excitement and talk and getting things done. "Ma, you can study Shakespeare at last!" "And see the college opera!" "Momie, maybe they'll let you take part in one of their plays." "They might, Ma." Mother had always been a wonder to them, and often when helping them with lines they must learn they would exclaim, "Gee, Ma, you ought to be in the movies." Of course they were thrilled over the idea of Mother going back to school. It had been her dream—after the family was reared. But nursing ten children through measles and mumps, pneumonia and broken collar bones, falling in love, going away to college and so on had made her stop talking about it, even stop thinking about it; but she still remembered. Each of the children, as youngsters do at a certain age, had gone treasure hunting in mother's memories and had discovered her old, old high school letters and note books. One scrap book, kept up during her first few years of married life, was full of pictures of college campuses, reviews of college plays and operas, graduation announcements, pictures and lists of contestants and prize winners. "It's the only thing for you to do, Mother," they had all insisted when she hesitated and tried to think. "Jane lives right in a college town." "Now your girlhood dreams will come true!" But that was such a long time ago, those girlhood dreams. She wished they could understand how different it was now that Delmar could not go with her, and how she felt about leaving her home—their home, his home. The children didn't know that every brick and stone and piece of furniture in this home that Delmar had built for her told of his presence; that her mind held a thousand images of him as he worked about; that she would always lean on the strength that had been his. How could they know that the good-by morning kisses, so much routine to them, had carried her through the countless tasks of motherhood each day for forty years, and that each night the beat of her heart had quickened as he came through the door? It would be hard to leave this home. She wished she could tell them all to mind their own business and let her stay and be lonesome in peace. But then maybe the children were right. Maybe she was the one who couldn't understand. Maybe once she got away everything would be different, and she wouldn't miss him
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 397
so much. It did seem though that having husbands and wives of their own should help her children to understand just a little how she felt. Yes, Edna would live in the home and she knew it would be well taken care of, and Albert had laughed amusedly when she seemed so concerned over the stock and barns and sheds and machinery which had always been kept in place like so many chess men just before the game begins. But there was J. Delmar, her eldest son—Junior Delmar, named after his father and cut down to J. Delmar or just J. D. Somehow even marriage hadn't stopped his coming for help. He had always demanded more of her than the others. The boy with his problems. Not a bad boy by any means, just irresponsible. And to cap it all he'd married a girl who was something of a problem herself, and now they had three little problems. Things hadn't been going too smoothly for them. And besides, what was the use of sponging off Jane when she had a home of her own?
"NAOMIE, aren't you going to get up today? The fire's going and breakfast is almost ready." "You up, Edna? Well, well. I must have dozed off again. That sun is high." It was the next day before Mother found time to write: "Aug. 30, 1938. "It's Wednesday morning, Jane. If I'm lucky I'll get this finished today. I've been so tired the last few days, getting ready and all. Have hurried so fast getting the big boys off to the mill and then trying to pick tomatoes, which seems a harder job this year than ever before; and all the time keeping the stove full of
398 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
grapes—juice and jam. Then right in the middle of it we had company—the kind that helps—and by last night we had 40 quarts tomato juice, 5 qts. jam, 10 qts. grape juice, had sold some honey, bought some pears, talked on the phone, and everything else imaginable. Oh yes, we finished taking out the honey the other day—145 gals. I wish Daddy could have known that—the most ever taken out at one time. "Today most everyone is at the County Fair but me. I'm too lazy. Still have a lot of jerky pains in my diaphragm, if that's the way you spell the place where it hurts. Slept though, after Edna decorated me with mustard plasters and hot water bottles. It makes me so peeved to think I can't do things like I used to. "We're having a fat hen and mashed potatoes and ice cream for dinner. It's company at Fair time you know. Here come some of them now. I'm going to hide out and finish this. Edna and Helen can make the gravy and set the table, 'cause if I don't get this finished I'll beat the letter there. "Now I'm up in the store room perched up on a huge box like a queen. And nobody will think to look for a queen in a mess like this. "I have already killed all my chickens that won't lay this winter and put them in bottles. You see I must bring something along to help pay for my keep. "In between times we have been mending, sorting, remodeling. Have packed a lot of things. But seems like the nearer I get to leaving, the harder it is. I guess I'll be rarin' when the time comes, though. Sometimes I get the queerest feelings. "They're calling, Jane. Something's happened. I can tell by their voices. Finish later—" Mother Sewell slipped from her box throne and hurried downstairs. "It's a special delivery letter, Mama, from J. Delmar. Read it," Edna insisted. It was from J. Delmar. There was something foreboding about it. Her fingers shook a little, and there was the place in her throat where you could see her heart beat like a tiny drum whenever she hurried or got too excited. You could see the tiny drum there now, beating away. Years of mothering J. Delmar had taught her that when he wrote he was in trouble and coming to her to find a way out. "I'll take it in here." Her eyes pleaded with her grown daughters as she slipped into her bedroom. "Dear Mother: Sonia and I just can't make a go of it. Don't you think I've stood it long enough? She's been going a little too strong while I was away, so we're going to split up. I must find someone to care for the children. Would you do that for me, Mother? I'll send you at least fifty dollars a month. Love, J. D." Her heart was beating like mad and coming right up into her head and pounding hard in her ears. The tiny drum in her throat was beating furiously. "Now they cannot make me leave my home. I will stay and help J. Delmar who needs me," she vowed exultantly. "I will stay and take care of his babies." But then, oddly enough, there flashed to her mind the words of her husband the time their eldest son had killed a horse accidentally—he was seventeen then, always breaking horses and riding wild steers—and her husband had said to her: "Don't you think, Mama, that it's just about time you let the boy fight his own battles? It won't hurt him to take the responsibility of paying for that horse. You deserve a new spring outfit with your butter and cheese money." With a sharp stab of pain she remembered that finally her spring outfit had gone to pay for the horse and that her husband had looked hurt. Remembering that hurt look on his face, she had always felt guilty. Her thoughts were suddenly shattered. She could hear laughing and joking and fun making in the kitchen. Her two big boys, not married but wanting to be, were back from the mill on the mountain and like little boys, unable to wait for dinner, had snitched the cookie plate. Of course, she should have expected them back for the big dance. So much noise and confusion. And then she remembered Albert's pants. "Momie," he called, his mouth crammed with cookie, his head poked through her bedroom door, "did you fix that carpenter's square in my Sunday pants?" "Oh dear. I forgot all about it. But I'll do it now." Rather shaky, she arose from the little rocker she kept by her bed, and tucked the letter well under her pillow. The girls would be curious, but they didn't need to know—yet. No need to have a big scene when they were all having such a good time together. "Forget it, Al," said Dick. "Profit by your college training and do it yourself. Ma isn't able to do those things like she used to. I'll press while you bathe and then you can take a turn."
MOTHER SEWELL tried to be gay with her children. She had taken lots of jolts in her life, and she had learned lots of things through the years. But that queer little hurt stayed in her breast. A hurt because the big boys thought she couldn't do all the things she used to do. And there was a heavy dull ache around her heart because J. D. was in such trouble, and she
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 399
didn't know what Delmar would want her to do about it. The flood gates refused to open and give relief. That evening they all joyfully went to the big dance and the fair with its merry-go-round, and left mother to rest up in the quiet. She had asked them to let her stay, and they thought perhaps it was best, too, for Edna had noticed the little drum beating most of the time this afternoon. Mother Sewell took J. Delmar's special delivery letter from under her pillow, and also the letter she had written to Jane, and bringing the little oak rocker Delmar had made for her she sat down and prayed for understanding and guidance. Her soul was on its knees. She must know what Delmar would have her do. No woman had ever had a stronger, more reliable pillar to lean on than had she. It seemed to her he had always known which road to take. The children hadn't understood how much of her life he was. He had been so quiet around the house; they had dealt with her mostly—and she was still there. The neighbors hadn't understood. Oh if they needed a special prayer, a prayer from an honest heart which went straight to God, a prayer from one who lived His commandment that "Ye love one another as I have loved you," then they asked her husband in his strength of character to utter that prayer. But she alone knew his kindness, thoughtfulness and humility. With every baby her joy had been so full, because he seemed to so fully sense the glory and honor of motherhood. She thought of him now as he had
400 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
taken each child in his arms to bless it. A tear rolled down her nose. Something must be the matter with her glasses. She took them off and wiped them carefully on the underside of her tie-apron, then put them on again. That was a little better, not much. She picked up the special delivery letter. Again she could see so plainly that hurt look on his face when she told him she had given J. D. the money to pay for the "broken horse," and again when she had signed his note to buy the little red roadster. Suddenly she knew that it was probably because J. Delmar had always depended on her that he was unable to make a go of it now; and if she were not here to take care of his children he would probably forgive his wife, and be able to keep her close to him for future years of satisfaction and hope instead of parting from her and reaping only sadness and regrets. Yes. That would be what her husband would want her to do. She would go to Jane's. There the goal she had almost gained forty years before, and given up because of love, could be realized. She would hunt out that little blue and gold college banner that she had bought just before Edna was born. It would be such fun! And she would study Shakespeare, even see some of his plays. She would get a seat on the front row. She could read Victor Hugo's book Les Miserables and take all the time she needed to think about it, and it would be nice and quiet in that big library so full of books. She would hear the college opera in the spring and hear the chorus sing often. There were fine lecturers and educators for class work—she would take just one class to begin with—but they gave wonderful talks in assemblies, and she would go to these. And she could hear the band practice from under the hill where Jane lived. It would be hard to climb that hill in the winter when it was icy. If Delmar could just be there to go with her and help her up that hill! What fun that would be! Trembling fingers lifted the pencil; with determination she wrote: "Dear son, I'm leaving for Jane's next Sunday morning, colors flying—" And then it seemed that her husband came and stood by her side, wanting her so. She leaned back to rest a moment—a moment in the little oak rocker which she had used to rock each of his babies. She could feel his presence tenderly, lovingly by her side. He was so close. It was like all the years—the years they had worked and waited and had their babies—had slipped away and they were young again, and together. There was no ache or pain as she lifted her hand for his—and arose to go with him.
HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon
MAY—the world brimming over with fragrance, beauty, and song is a testament of God's beneficence.
QUEEN ELIZABETH is her own stylist, and English women take notice. She shunned the extremely short skirts in her wardrobe for the American tour. Did American women take notice?
RUTH BRYAN OWEN RHODE is said to be as eloquent and magnetic as her distinguished father on the lecture platform. Blood will tell.
ELEANOR ROOSEVELT, versatile and accomplished, is a patron of art and never happier than when displaying some of her collections, among them her Goya etchings of which she is especially proud.
LAURA INGALLS, most daring aviatrix since the ill-fated Amelia Earhart, lost somewhere in the South Seas, has planned a solo distance flight record across the Pacific.
MADAME CHIANG KAI-SHEK, touring America in behalf of Chinese refugees, was severely injured in a plane crash. Regaining consciousness she said, "I would gladly die for the cause."
ANNA SCHETININA is the first of the Soviet seagoing women to achieve the rank of Captain, and there are 8,800 women sailors besides over 2,000 women running river boats. Besides the Russians, women in England and other lands are organizing to take over naval jobs in case of war.
MARJORY KINNAN RAWLINGS received the Pulitzer prize of $1,000 for the most distinguished novel of last year, "The Yearling," a pastoral story of a Florida boy.
IDA M. TARBELL has delighted her many admirers by printing "All In The Day's Work," an autobiography. It is the story of a great American who has fearlessly approached life and stood for liberal thought and action. "My Days of Strength" is another interesting biography by Anne Walton Fearn, an American woman doctor who spent forty years in China.
ELIZA A. MUNSON, 91, of Circleville died last month. She was a member of the Daughters of the Mormon Battalion and Daughters of Utah Pioneers and a devoted Latter-day Saint.
THRU L. PARTRIDGE of Utah has recently written a novel "Adventures With A Lamp," the story of a nurse. Elsie C. Carroll is a contributor to "Women Of The West" and Anna Prince Redd's Relief Society contest prize poem "No Beauty Is" appears in "North American Book of Verse," while other anthologies of 1939 are recognizing a number of Utah women poets, among them Nellie Parker, member of the Relief Society General Board, and Mary Leona Jolley, postmistress at Tropic.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth
LOUISE YATES ROBISON President AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor KATE M. BARKER Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD Amy Whipple Evans Emeline Y. Nebeker Beatrice F. Stevens Rosannah C. Irvine Janet M. Thompson Nettie D. Bradford Belle S. Spafford Rae B. Barker Marcia K. Howells Vivian R. McConkie Anna S. Barlow Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Ida P. Beal Jennie B. Knight Donna Durrant Sorensen Nellie O. Parker Leda T. Jensen
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XXVI JUNE, 1939 No. 6
EDITORIAL
Divided Attention
THE Savior said there are those who have ears but they hear not and those who have eyes but they see not. Some of us go through life and arrive at the sunset end with such a meager knowledge of the Gospel that we may well wonder if we are those to whom the Savior referred—have ears and hear not. The average woman reads one or two hours a week, and is in regular church meetings and classes perhaps two to four hours a week—some more, some less. While much of our time may be spent in interpreting the Gospel plan in our daily lives, only about five per cent of our waking hours is actually spent in study and contemplation of this most important thing in life. If we really apply ourselves during the five per cent of our time without dividing our attention too severely, we have great opportunities to grow and increase in knowledge and wisdom. But all too many of us allow our attention to be diverted from the main purpose, and the five per cent is reduced in some cases to a point where it is a question if any real, lasting benefits are received. If the radio is allowed to play during the reading and study period, it is bound to divert the attention and decrease our ability to understand those things we find written in the best of books. In some homes the radio is allowed to play all day long, possibly with the hope that something worth while will come on, or because of fearing to miss the good features that do come on the air. Some of our young people attend church in a purely social way, and the officers conducting the meetings and classes are just taken for granted, as the radio is at home; sometimes they pay attention and sometimes not, but certainly the speaker or class leader need not interfere with their thoughts or plans or the general social experience they are having in church. Many of us are in the habit of relaxing so completely when attending church that we sleep or allow ourselves to get into a stupor so deep that not even the most important things penetrate our minds, and much of the value of our five per cent is lost. Such a small portion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 403
of our time is spent at the feet of good teachers and in spiritual and cultural classes that we cannot afford to waste that time by relaxing so completely. Some women have felt they were conserving time to knit or do other hand or needle work in the Relief Society or other church meetings. President Robison is particularly anxious that this habit stop, as it divides the attention of the women so engaged, and it is evidence of discourtesy toward those conducting the exercises, including of course the class leader. Some one has said that "genius is only the power of sustained attention". Let us see that our attention is sustained until the very end, particularly during our study and reading periods and in our organization and church meetings that we may better understand the Plan of Salvation, the Gospel of Jesus Christ. "He that hath an ear, let him hear."
Our Viewpoint
A SURVEY of the activities of Relief Society for 1938-39 reveals a year characterized by unusual growth and achievement. Over 5,000 women have joined our ranks, adding strength to the Society; accomplishments in the field of welfare are a source of satisfaction, while the educational program has never been more ably carried forward. However, as the year draws to a close the inclination of most of us is not to focus attention upon achievements but rather to view in retrospect the difficulties encountered, the problems met, and the great amount of effort which performance of our duties has entailed. So easily wearied, we are prone to feel that it has all been so much work. We rationalize: "In former days before we assumed this responsibility we walked whither we would. Shall we continue to be burdened with the heavy load; obliged to continually think of others and not to please ourselves? Shall we go on?" Such thoughts are both natural and common in view of responsibilities. Perhaps no one ever put his hand to the plow of an enterprise without indulging for at least a brief moment in such thoughts. But natural as it is to want to relinquish responsibility it is unwise. Only as we accept it do we grow. The fundamental road to advancement is individual effort—work. Latter-day Saint women, through divine inspiration, have been given definite assignments; the fulfillment of these brings development. When we assume the attitude that too much is required of us we not only stand in the way of our individual advancement but we also retard the work of the Organization. The Relief Society program properly interpreted, with work intelligently delegated, does not unduly burden any woman. If we will erase from mind the idea that we are overworked, that we are making sacrifices out of proportion to what should be required of us, we will find maximum enjoyment, advancement and success in the work of Relief Society.
World Center For Women's Archives By Virginia Driggs Clark
"WHERE are the official histories and documents of our pioneer women?" This question was asked of four hundred women assembled in the city of Washington, D. C. at a meeting of the World Center for Women's Archives. The question was asked by Fola La Follette, daughter in the famous La Follette family of Wisconsin. She explained that having an unusual interest in history she was fascinated with the stories of western settlement but felt something was lacking. She concluded that stories dealing with pioneer women had been omitted. Careful research revealed numerous records rich in the activities of men but not of women; the story of womankind was probably hidden away in diaries, letters, miscellaneous notes and references, or in the memories of people—seldom written. The World Center for Women's Archives was organized two years ago by Mary Beard, wife of our prominent historian, Dr. Charles A. Beard, with the support of Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt and a group of nationally known women. Its purposes are: "To make a systematic search for undeposited source materials dealing with women's lives and activities, interests and ideas, as members of society everywhere. Included in such source materials will be letters, diaries, speeches, pamphlets and articles, manuscripts of books in special cases, notes and memoranda, programs of work and publicity. "To reproduce important materials, already deposited elsewhere, by means of microfilming and other modern processes. "To become a clearing-house of information with respect to the location and character of source materials on women in other libraries and institutions. "To encourage recognition of women as co-makers of history." Inez Haynes Irwin, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Women's Archives, related the part played by Kathryn Greene as co-inventor of the cotton gin. The part played by Eli Whitney in this important invention has been fully emphasized, but very little credit has been given to Kathryn Greene. It is only simple justice that women be recognized for their contributions to life. Mary Beard, speaking to this gathering, declared that women should be recognized as co-makers of history; the Hall of Fame has been founded, but there are very few women in it. An appeal was also made by Dorothy Detzer, Secretary of the Women's International League for Peace, who urged that in collecting the histories of women we do not forget their hopes and dreams. The organization for a world center for women's archives is only two years old, but is growing rapidly. At the present time there is no building in which to store precious collections; there is no permanent fund to assure the organization's stability, but there are hundreds of women all over the country whose interest in preserving the traditions, histories and writings of women will make the dreams of the organization a reality.
The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHARACTER DESCRIPTION AND SYNOPSIS—4TH INSTALLMENT
WEATHER BEATEN and gray, the Carey mansion overlooks Puget Sound. A crumbling reminder of the better days of the Carey family, the dank, overgrown place is beloved by its owner, gray-haired "MISS BRILL" CAREY, who earns her living as a seamstress. Miss Brill had overdone her strength the day she went to ask wealthy old Philander Maddox for a job for her niece. Returning home, she is stricken on the roadside, where she is found dazed and ill by the niece, lovely red-haired young NELL CAREY, who is returning from a movie with Fred Nagle. Nell has ambitions to be an artist, but no money. Miss Brill had determined to provide this opportunity and thereby perhaps break up the girl's half-hearted engagement to FRED NAGLE, a too-material young chicken farmer, bent chiefly on "getting ahead". He was also determined not to lose Nell, and was no more disturbed by Miss Brill's news of Nell's job than he was by the presence of the new tenant of the Carey's Alaska house, young ROBERT LATHROP, mysterious and irritable convalescent. Determined to occupy the sourdough cabin—comfortable log replica of an Alaskan cabin—on the Carey property, Lathrop rouses the ire of Nell, who believes his presence will disturb her aunt. The young man surprises the girl by winning the complete confidence of the stricken woman. Hopelessly bed-ridden and unable to speak since her stroke, Miss Brill is the obstacle to Nell's career as an artist. But the girl has discovered she is a foundling, no relation to the supposed aunt, and resolves to give herself entirely to the invalid's care. She has promised to marry Fred by the end of summer if Miss Brill does not improve, and feels herself trapped. Roused from her despair by the announcement of a local art scholarship contest, Nell busies herself to prepare an entry.
CHAPTER FIVE
IF there was one thing Nell liked to paint better than another, it was Puget Sound. All her days and nights had been colored by sights and sounds of that rambling bit of the Pacific Ocean that found its way between the pine-covered hills of western Washington. She knew it blue and calm, as soft and silky as a baby's rumpled crib cover; she knew it gray and sullen under misty rain, its green border blotted out by low-hanging clouds. She knew it as a gay, brilliant playground for the dancing whitecaps of its own waves and the slanting sails of small sporting crafts that dotted it on brisk days. And she knew it angrily tossing great logs from broken booms onto its rocky beach under the lash of a forty-mile gale. The Carey house faced the widest possible expanse of the water. To the south the channel narrowed on its way to the ports of Seattle and Tacoma. Dividing it to the north was the bulk of Whidby Island, sending the water's eastern channel to Bellingham, its western to follow a wide path to lovely Canadian Victoria. But westward were the Straits of Juan de Fuca, and this gateway Nell loved, this vast mystery of the ocean out of which suddenly materialized tiny specks that became the freighters of Japan, of Italy, of far-off Australia that made incessant parade past the Carey front door. Nell had placed her easel on the old pier that Tom Carey had built to moor his fishing boat. It was a good
406 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
pier, on stout cedar piles that never wavered under the heaviest water. The girl had placed her stool slightly on an angle, and through the corner of her eye she could see the Alaska house. Stretched in his deck chair on the platform, hat pulled low over his be-goggled face, was Mr. Robert Lathrop, the ex-prowler, week-long tenant of the cabin, but still a hostile stranger as far as Nell was concerned. Nell resented him. She had never actually talked with the man. His curt nod when she passed him on the path as he swung down the slope to his cabin, an irritable "great guns, not even a telephone" when he had asked if he might use theirs, and a few arrogant inquiries as to the source of supply of butter, eggs and milk (they must be fresh) was all the contact she had had with him. She had been amazed once, coming home from the village, to hear his laugh coming from Miss Brill's room, and after he had gone the invalid had been pink-cheeked and almost gay. Nell had spouted her indignation at his audacity in annoying a sick woman. Miss Brill had merely smiled. "Does me good," she had managed, "I like him." But Nell didn't. Fortunately, this odious man spent most of his time stretched on his deck chair in the sun on the terrace, wrapped like a cocoon in a rug of violent Scotch plaid, sleeping, or pretending to. He had told Mary Kelly he was convalescing from some nervous disorder. He had been most vague and embarrassed about it. "I've seen men as looked like that, pale and hateful, when they come out of prison," Mary Kelly had finished darkly. "Oh, Mrs. Kelly," protested Nell, "you mustn't say such things." But secretly she had a suspicion the good woman might be right. Somehow, she did not trust Robert Lathrop. For one thing, she resented his clothes. A man had no business wearing ties as beautiful as those Mr. Lathrop wore. Nell shook her hair back impatiently. This would never do. Sitting here resenting the Lathrop nuisance would win no scholarships. For one thing, it put her in the wrong mood. She dipped her brush into the gray paint she had mixed, and plied it with care. A little more red! The Sound just before dawn was a different gray than during a rain. It had a peculiar cast of translucent rose that hinted of the coming light but did not tell it clearly. That was the effect she must get. She forgot Robert Lathrop completely and painted furiously. "Hm. Not bad. Not bad at all." THE voice behind her was bland, a little patronizing, but friendly. Nell had to stare to convince herself that it belonged to the hostile tenant of the Alaska house. He had his glasses off, his dark hair was rumpled. His sweater of hunter's green suited exactly the slight tan that he had coaxed on his face. Nell was startled and not a little confused. He was not thirty-five—not even thirty. He might possibly be twenty-five, but not a day older. Robert Lathrop grinned. "You act as if you'd never seen me before," he said. "I haven't," Nell blurted truthfully. She really hadn't seen him— only the distorted image she had created of him. "I mean," she indicated the sun glasses in his hand, "not without those." "They do make a difference. Have to wear 'em though till the eye trouble clears up. But I wanted to have a look at your work. They tell me you are an artist." Nell smiled uncertainly. "That remains to be seen. I want to be one. I'm going to enter this in the contest, the one for the scholarship." Lathrop's pleasantness was drowned ina scowl. "What do you want to monkey with contests for? Work yourself up to a pitch and get dropped with a thud. Do you realize how many 'would-be world beaters' try in those things? People with years of training! There are bound to be dozens better than you." "And maybe not," Nell retorted sharply. "It's one way of finding out how good—or bad—I really am. I'm not afraid.": Lathrop shrugged. "So you're the game kind, eh?" Then, grudgingly, "That's a fairly good picture you've got there. Too quiet, though. Doesn't smack you in the eye." He leaned closer, then stood back squinting through lashes long and dark as Nell's own. "I don't know, now — those battleships stringing along, almost as gray as the water and sky. The lights in the crows nests! Gosh, they look stealthy as Indians sneaking up on you. Sort of sinister." Nell's eyes shone. Pink spots glowed in her pale cheeks. "You see that? That's what I'm trying to get. Oh, I'm so glad you think I'm going in the right direction." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 407 Lathrop laughed a little as though he were ashamed of his enthusiasm. He looked curiously at the girl. That hair! Only once before had he seen hair that exact shade of dark red, with highlights like old, rubbed mahogany. <Abruptly he realized he was staring, and turned hastily to the picture again. "Where did you get the idea? It might hit the committee in the eye yet." Nell sparkled again. "Ever since I was big enough to climb out of my bed I've been up before dawn to watch the navy come up the Sound for fleet week. You look and look and can't see a thing. You make up your mind they aren't coming, and finally you make the first one out, gray as a ghost, and so terribly businesslike. I'd hate to be one of our enemies at sea. And then they come, just so far apart, until there's a line of them clear to Seattle from the straits." "Sounds interesting," Lathrop murmured, watching the girl's face. "You paint too tensely, too carefully, wave for wave, cloud for cloud." "T know, I've got to suggest more, outline less. Trouble is, I can't seem to do it. Well, I can only try." Lathrop shrugged, his mouth bitter again. "That's so, Pollyanna. 'Do and dare,' 'strive and succeed'. Those are the old saws upon which they build contests like this, child." Nell gasped under the cold deluge of his cynicism. "Why shouldn't I 'do and dare'? Listen, you're so wise. A little while ago I thought the world was down on me because I had to give up something I wanted desperately. So I just sat and gloomed and felt so sorry for poor little me.  JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Then I heard something that jolted me out of it, so I'm in this thing to win—to try and do as much for Aunt Brill as she's done for me. Certainly I'd never get any place sitting down in my despair in a deck chair and going to sleep." Lathrop laughed shortly. "Thanks. I deserve that, I suppose. But really, Miss Carey, you've chosen a hard role. Trying to be artists in this day and age are those who want to be movie actors or writers. This thing, now. You think you're in a contest, and a couple of hundred other earnest young dupes think the same. But youll find out! The winning canvases will all be in the bag before a single 'contest' entry comes in.' Lathrop's face had become a dull red, his voice almost a snarl. Nell said sharply, "You can't mean that. There must be some mistake!" "There's a mistake, all right," Robert Lathrop said harshly, "and you're making it. Don't tell me I didn't warn you. Either go in this thing expecting nothing — which, please believe it, is all you '1 get—or stay out of it. You haven't a chance." "No," cried Nell, and indicated the dank gray house behind her, the overgrown, neglected yard, "I can't give myself—Aunt Brill—up to this. I've got to struggle out of it." Lathrop's face was its normal pale olive again. "You could always get married. Don't tell me that thick young fellow with the scrubbed look about him comes to see auntie." Nell laughed, and the tension between them eased. "It's been suggested—the marriage part of it, I mean." The only people who aren't © "Young men who marry restless young women ought to receive a medal. They keep so many idle brains out of mischief," Lathrop declared, his cynical self again. "A good cook is worth a dozen secondrate artists, any day." NELL disdained to reply to this, so the young man resumed his goggles, his plaid rug and his horizontal position in the deck chair, studying the bent head of the artist behind the screen of his dark glasses. That hair had bothered him, but it did so-no longer. He knew where he had seen it. It was just shortly after the great war, and he had seen it on the head of a very pretty, if haughty, young lady, who used to come to talk with his mother. He remembered, did Robert Lathrop, hanging behind his mother's chair and watching the lights play on the lovely red hair of the caller until he was reminded sharply to go out and play with the other little boys. "Wien this Nell gets some sense she's going to be a beauty. Better than the other one," Lathrop told himself. And the thought of that other red-haired beauty tantalized him. He had so many pieces of a puzzle that lacked but little of being a complete picture. He lay so quietly in his deck chair one would have thought him asleep. At length he whistled softly. "She's the one. She has to be," he said aloud. Trouble was he had nothing but the looks of the girl and the whispers of Mrs. Mary Kelly to go on. If only Miss Brill could talk—or would. The young man's face glowed with an almost fanatic fervor. This girl, if she had lots of money, would forget about her art. She'd abandon the long, heartbreaking quest for a mirage that would almost certainly never materialize. This quest that sucked the life blood of young, vital people and left them bitter, disillusioned and forever haunted! Nell RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 409 Carey, young, but lightly touched by the art madness yet, could be saved from that, and he, Robert Lathrop, knew part of the way to do it. Somehow the old lady must be made to tell him what she knew. (To be continued) ext. 9 oo DESERTED HOMESTEAD By Olive C. Wehr Little deserted house Here at the desert's edge, Browned by the desert sun, You wait forlorn— A symbol Of the unconquered— A lost hope, A broken dream, And once—a home. All day long The desert winds Cry their songs About you. Ghost-children Of a long-forgotten past, They run and play, And toss the sand By little handfuls In through broken windows. A red tomato can On a rusty stove, An old love letter On a dusty shelf, And a broken toy— Mute memories Of a living past, Heartaches, And final despair. The Legend of the Green Gates By Edith Young Booth HOEVER has traveled \¢ through the towns of southern Utah must remember the historic and interesting city of Saint George, founded by a group of outstanding men and women whom the great pioneer leader, Brigham Young, called to settle the "Dixie" country. Here a marvelous community was established as a result of perseverance and industry. Even though extreme hardships were encountered, St. George became one of the outstanding early pioneer settlements of Utah. To reach this city near the border line of the "Territory" required weeks of travel over roads that were scarcely more than trails; yet many of the Church leaders built beautiful winter homes here and thus enjoyed a climate which excelled even California's sunny vales. The homes of President Young, Orson Pratt, Erastus Snow and others remain as interesting landmarks of the early "sixties". The beloved President, Brigham Young, had designated this city as the place where a temple should be erected. This building was commenced several years after the foundations of the Salt Lake Temple were laid; yet, through the enthusiastic efforts of the St. George people, assisted by willing volunteers from all parts of Utah, it became the first temple west of the Mississippi River to be dedicated. As the building progressed, various materials were sent from Salt Lake City and other places to be used in its construction. As it neared completion, the workers anxiously awaited the paint and other materials to be used in finishing the great edifice. 'They had been compelled to discontinue activities because of the delay in receiving these. After weeks of weary travel over muddy, slippery roads, the supplies arrived. Eagerly the unloading was watched, and how happy every one of the big family of St. George felt when they at last beheld the kegs of paint. The temple grounds were buzzing with humanity, as all hands were ready and eager to assist in this great work. After impatiently waiting for what seemed an interminable period, the containers were opened. White paint had been ordered, but in filling the order it was clearly apparent that "some one had blundered,"' for instead of white the spectators gazed on paint of a brilliant green hue!. A wail of disappointment rent the air, and a look of deep despair flooded the countenances of the gathered throng. Women wept and men stormed at this unexpected turn of affairs. Travel was slow in those days, but after weeks of delay another consignment of paint of the right color was received—this time accompanied by demonstrations of great joy and thanksgiving. When asked what should become of the green paint, President Young said that any man who would put his fences in good condition and build a suitable gate should be given enough paint to paint the gate. The numerous green gates still remaining in all sections of St. George manifest that the people took advantage of Brigham Young's offer. The Body's Need For Vitamins By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe Home Economics Department—University of Utah (Vitamins C, D, and G will be considered in this article) VITAMIN C While each vitamin has its own specific identity and specific functions, as a group they work together in regulating the body functions. The disease known as scurvy is caused by the absence or deficiency of vitamin C in the diet and is one of the oldest deficiency diseases known. Any group of people, such as sailors, soldiers, or explorers, that was restricted to such foods as cereal products, dried meat and fish, over long periods of time, were affected with scurvy. Stories of spectacular cures are cited. A group of explorers camped during the winter near an Indian village. Both the Indians and the explorers were ill with scurvy. These men quickly recovered from the disease by taking the juice and sap of the leaves of a tree. While not definitely known, this tree is thought to have been the American Spruce. Another instance of remarkable healing in 1747 was effected by the use of orange, lemon or lime juice. Since this time the British Navy has prescribed lemon (called lime) juice in the dietary, and the British sailors are today familiarly known as "limies". The introduction of the Irish potato into Northern Europe did much to decrease the occurrence of scurvy. Scurvy is ordinarily thought of as a disease of adults. 'This is not true, Spruce Beer as an Antiscorbutic: Appleton, V. B., Jour. Home Economics, Vol. 13, page 604, 1921. However, as children are subject to scurvy if their diet is deficient in vitamin C over a sufficiently long period of time. Mary Swartz Rose in her text, The Foundations of Nutrition, cites examples of children afflicted with scurvy. A London physician found three children out of a large number in a certain hospital suffering from scurvy, while all the others were free from this disease. He sought out the cause and found that the diet of the first child had for the previous eight months been "oatmeal, rusks, and water with a little mutton broth"; the second child had lived for the previous three months on "bread and butter with a one-seventh share of a pint of milk together with a patent infant food"; the third "had been weaned two years and then fed bread, butter and tea with occasionally some sausage and a little brandy and water". The other children who, did not have the disease had been accustomed to eating potatoes. The scurvy children were cured on a diet of boiled potatoes, mashed and served in raw milk. Recent research with guinea pigs has contributed much to the understanding and treatment of this disease. It is now known that the cause of scurvy is the deficiency of ascorbic acid or vitamin C in the diet. Guinea pigs on a diet of oats and bran will soon become sick with this terrible disease. With the addition of fresh vegetables—cabbage  JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is especially good—the animals will speedily recover. Ascorbic acid or vitamin C is synthesized both by plants and most animals, the exceptions being man, guinea pigs and monkeys. Since vitamin C is found in most plant and animal tissue, McCollum says "It is somewhat difficult to understand how our ancestors were so slow in recognizing the preventatives of scurvy—fresh fruits and vegetables". The chemist now knows the chemical formula of Vitamin C or ascorbic acid, and it is on the market in a crystalline and other forms.: Functions of Vitamin C. Vitamin C in the diet prevents the disease scurvy. Seldom is there a deficiency of vitamin C alone in the diet. There are usually deficiencies of other essential nutrients so that one will usually find varied symptoms' attributed to scurvy. In general, scurvy in human beings has the following symptoms: "The adult loses weight, is anemic, weak and short of breath. The gums become swollen, bleed easily, and frequently ulcerate. The teeth loosen and may drop out." Other symptoms noted are: "Hemorrhages into the mucous membrane and skin are characteristic. Blue-black spots develop in the skin and subcutaneous tissue, and nervous symptoms of various types may appear. Children and infants are fretful, anemic and without appetite. They fail to grow satisfactorily and exhibit vague evidences of illness." The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition: McCollum, E. V., 5th Edition, 1939. Particularly does the writer wish to call attention to the effect of the absence or deficiency of vitamin C in the diet, in that the body is unable to produce intercellular material, particularly the intercellular §material in the walls of the blood vessels. This intercellular structure is "the cementing substance which holds the cells together" thus giving greater strength and greater elasticity to the walls of the blood vessels, thereby lessening hemorrhages. The effect on the teeth is also marked. The general tooth structure is weakened, decays readily, loosens and falls out. 'The gums become reddened and inflamed and are easily infected. The heart often becomes enlarged and the heart muscles become weakened. There are many other important symptoms of vitamin C deficiency. The boney structure throughout the body is affected because of the inability of the growing ends of the bones to retain and make use of the mineral salts, and they become soft and break easily. The deficiency of vitamin C contributes to anemia due to the destruction of the blood-forming cells in the bone marrow and the loss of blood through hemorrhages. The muscles throughout the entire body degenerate and become weak. Thus weakened, the tissue throughout the body is more readily subject to infection. These effects of vitamin C deficiency come on gradually and do not manifest themselves in obvious symptoms until much damage is done. It is unfortunate that all of the vitamin deficiency diseases are not accompanied by aches and pains in the early stages so that attention may be called to them before so much damage has been done. The above symptoms readily and dramatically disappear when an adequate supply of vitamin C is added to the diet. Nature of Vitamin C Vitamin C is readily soluble in water. It is quickly oxidized or destroyed when exposed to the air. Light also has a marked destructive effect. Even the light passing through a milk bottle readily destroys the vitamin C in the milk. This vitamin is readily destroyed in the ordinary cooking processes. 'The vitamin, however, is much more stable in an acid medium, and moderate heat in such a medium does not affect the vitamin. If soda or other alkaline substances are added to foods containing vitamin C, it will be destroyed. Hence, the custom of adding soda to hasten the softening of vegetables and to tomatoes to neutralize the acid is a bad nutritional practice. One gets his best sources of vitamin C in the fruits and vegetables containing free acids such as the citrus fruits and tomatoes. The modern canning methods do not destroy much of the vitamin C because of the practice of pre-heating to drive out the air before processing in the cans by heat. The drying of food tends to destroy much of this vitamin. The quick freezing method of preserving fruits and vegetables does not affect vitamin values. Vitamin C Requirement The best authorities are agreed that we do not definitely know at this time the best amount of vitamin C for the various age groups. Dr. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 413 Hess suggests that 2.5 milligrams (100 International units) of vitamin C—Ascorbic acid—daily will protect a baby from scurvy, and that the adult will need 7.5 milligrams (300 International units). One milligram equals 4o I. U. In other words, an infant should begin with one teaspoonful of orange juice in his drinking water daily, gradually working up to two ounces or four tablespoonsful. The adult will need three times this amount or three-fourths cupful daily. There is no danger of overdosage. Sources of Vitamin C Vitamin C is produced by the plant during growth. It is not present in dry, mature seeds but develops as soon as they begin to sprout. It is more abundant in the fresh green leaves. It is also found in the juicy stems, tubers, bulbs, roots and fruits. Citrus fruits and tomatoes are the best sources. We now understand some of the old-time remedies for scurvy, such as a decoction of pine needles, grass, burdock, dandelions, and the use of water-cress, turnip tops, etc. The potato holds a unique place in the prevention of scurvy. Apples are a very good source of vitamin C, depending upon the variety. Storage of fruits and vegetables results in considerable loss, most of the vitamin C being lost after nine months in an ordinary earth cellar and one-fourth after six months in cold storage. Animal foods are not as good a source of C as are the vegetable foods. Meat and eggs have almost none. The amount in fresh raw milk depends upon the diet of the cow. Fresh green food and certain ensilage will produce three to five A{4 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE times as much vitamin C as when the animal is on dry feed. Milk in any form—fresh, pasteurized or dried—is not thought of as good sources of this vitamin. One's safety lies in eating daily some good source of this vitamin, such as citrus fruits or tomatoes. The vitamin C values of foods will be found in a table at the end of this article. VITAMIN D Space will permit only the briefest discussion of the two remaining vitamins, D and G, and the antisterility vitamin E will not be discussed at all. Vitamin D is known as the antirachitic vitamin. Rickets is a disease of the bones in which the mineral salts are deficient, especially calcium and phosphorus. While this condition is generally due to a deficiency of mineral salts in the diet, it may in certain cases be due to the body's inability to absorb and utilize the mineral in the food. Rickets is a disease affecting the entire body, but its most characteristic symptom is a failure of the bones to calcify properly; they lose their rigidity and become easily deformed. The first defect is usually a row of protuberances down each side of the chest where the ribs join the sternum. The chest fails to develop normally. The bones project forward forming what is known as a pigeon breast. The entire chest space is smaller, thus interfering with full, deep breathing. The ends of the long bones of the body become enlarged, especially at the wrists and at the ankles. Poor teeth are definitely a symptom of vitamin D deficiency. In the treatment or prevention of these symptoms it is not alone sufficient to provide an adequate supply of calcium and phosphorus in the diet, but vitamin D is necessary in order to help the body utilize these minefals. Sunlight during our summer season also helps the body to utilize the minerals in the diet more effectively. The effect of sunlight on the skin actually produces vitamin D which is utilized by the body in making better use of the minerals in the food. It is a fallacy to believe that vitamin D can take the place of minerals in the diet. Food Sources The food sources of vitamin D are very limited. The fish oils are the best sources. The egg yolk is the richest food source. Cow's milk is a poor source of vitamin D. It can, however, be successfully irradiated thus producing vitamin D. For safety one must include fish liver oil in a growing child's dietary during the periods of the year when exposure to direct sunlight is not practical. VITAMIN G Vitamin G has been intimately associated with vitamin B, but it has recently been given a definite identity. It is now known to be necessary to normal growth and development, to healthy skin and hair. In experimental animals on a diet deficient in vitamin G cataracts develop. Vitamin G appears to be necessary to the maintenance of health for all ages. Vitamin G food values are not sufficiently well established and not enough is known about the amounts needed by adults and children to specify definite dosages. No inter- national unitage has been established, but dosages are given in the Sherman-Bourquin units. 'These authorities recommend 600 units daily for adults and 400 daily for children up to ten years pf age and 20 units per 100 calories thereafter. Food Sources Vitamin G is closely associated in foods with vitamin B and is a water soluble vitamin. The richest sources of G are brewer's yeast, liver, muscle meat, and egg. Milk is the most dependable source as it is found usually in the diet of both growing children and adults. Green leafy vegetables are a good source. THE VITAMIN C AND G VALUES OF FOODS (Revised March, 1938) The Average Vitamin C Values per 100 grams or 3.6 ounces given in International Units and the Vitamin G values given in Sherman-Bourquin Units. Vitamin C Food Units Almonds. 1,000 Asparagus, green 400 Brussels sprouts 550 Cabbage 1,000 Cantaloupe 300 Cauliflower 500 Currants, Black 3,900 Grapefruit 650 Kohl-rabi 1,000 Lemon juice 1,000 Liver, chicken 300 Mandarins 520 Oranges 800 Orange juice 900 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 415 Vitamin C Food Units Paprika 2,100 Parsley 1,500 Parsnips 350 Peaches, dried, yellow 500 Peas, green 400 Peppers, green 2,000 Peppers, red 4,000 Pimentos, green 2,500 Pimentos, red 4,720 Radishes 500 Rhubarb 400 Rutabaga, white 400 Rutabaga, yellow 3,000 Spinach 1,000 Strawberries 600 Tangerines 500 Tomatoes, green 250 Tomatoes, ripe 300 Tomato juice 360 Turnip greens 1,000 Vitamin G Beet greens 200 Broccoli 140 Cheese, Cheddar 220 Chick, Peas, dried 250 Eggs 125 Egg yolk 200 Heart, Beef 300 Kidney, Beef 800 Kidney, Veal 800 Kidney, Mutton 660 Liver, Beef 1,000 Liver, Calf goo Liver, Lamb 600 Milk, whole 60 Milk, dried, whole 500 Milk, evaporated 100 Milk, butter 250 Peanuts 220 Prunes, dried 260 Soy Beans 250 Turnip greens 300 Wheat germ 300 Yeast, Fleischmann 500 Raspberries Tangerines 350 250 A FATHER'S FAME By Evelyn Wilde Heath In loving memory of a Father's fame, I see a face so gentle, kind and true. It matters not—I shall not give his name, He was my father—that alone should do. For Father did not rank as over strong, And he was never called the President, Nor did they cheer him as he passed along; But he was quite the best as fathers went. He did not have a wealth of power or gold, Nor did men sing the glory of his fame; But he was true and honest, brave and bold, And I was right-well proud to bear his name. When night was black he eased my childish fears, And taught me how to smile at darkened space; A little awkward as he dried my tears, His hand a little rough that brushed my face. For Father's hands were strong hands like his soul; Strong, capable—a little over tan. His face bore signs where time had taken toll, But honor, mellowed there, had made a man. And as he smiled, his face with radiance beamed, A twinkle in his eyes that spoke of mirth. He went through life unnoticed, so it seemed, But the Maker and the Master knew his worth. Perhaps you may have seen an old violin In some shop window on the edge of town; The master knew its worth and took it in, But they who searched for beauty turned it down. The many mars the more would prove its worth To him who loved the tarnished surface there; And mellowed tones, like seeds deep in the earth, Could move strong men to tears and whispered prayer. Where thoughtless hands had severed it apart It may have had a worn or broken string; And if you searched the depths of Father's heart, Perhaps you may have found just such a thing. For fathers must grow weary of the load, And while we sing the praises mothers win How seldom is the debt to fathers showed; And hearts must grow a little sad within. And so I bow in sacred reverence, My love a monument to his great name Whose heart was filled with honor's recompense; And just to be a Father was his fame. MORMON HANDICRAFT By Nellie O. Parker FOR the world to beat a path to the door of Mormon Handicraft Shop is our aim; and if Emerson is right, we are confident it will be so when people know of the fineness and skill of the workmanship to be found here. Plans have been made to widen our circle of patrons, and important strides have been made this last month in its march of progress. An attractive folder is to be placed in the dining and lounge cars of all trains coming into Salt Lake City. The officials of the different railroads have been very gracious in extending this privilege. They feel as we do, that it will bring added human interest to our historic mountain valleys. The folder tells in part: "Rare skill in handicraft from every country has been perpetuated in Utah.... This cosmopolitan background, unique for thrift and versatility, has produced a handicraft guild not to be found in any other place in the world.... There is quality only hands can produce." Two display cases have been placed in the lobby of the Hotel Utah—be sure to see them when in this vicinity. Each hand-made article in the cases fairly radiates personality, beauty and perfection of workmanship. A representative of Altman Company, New York City, visited our shop recently. Upon her return to New York her company sent us an order for up-to-the-minute luncheon sets, copper work and oxen-yoke lamps, Let me tell you about the luncheon sets. There are several different varieties so new and so smart we know you will want one or more of them. Some are crocheted of wondersheen in large, open patterns, yellow, green and white in color; they are oblong, round or star pointed in shape, and -stiffly dressed so as to look crisp and cool for summer luncheons. They'd be suitable for any time for that matter. They can be ordered in any color to blend or accentuate your china or crystal ware. Mormon Handicraft specializes in things for the hope chest. For this time, when dreams are being fulfilled, only the loveliest and finest are appropriate. Besides quilts, pillow cases, chair sets and rugs, there are many dainty guest towels—white handkerchief linen with hemstitched designs and blue borders; pale peach, green or blue ones, with or without blending colored borders, will be perfect for the dream home —just to see them is a delight. There are sturdier ones for more practical use but still very acceptable gifts. I must not close before I tell you about the netted doilies as fine and filmy as a spider's web. (I'll let you in on a secret, they make the sweetest jabots you ever saw.) P. S. There is nothing more suitable for a suit or separate skirt than a lovely sweater perfectly knit by skilled, deft fingers. Yloteds. FROM THE FIELD By Julia A. F, Lund, General Secretary Cache Stake N commemoration of the organization of Relief Society in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842, programs were held in all the wards in Cache Stake. These programs also honored Lucy S. Cardon, 87 years old, who served as president of the original Cache LUCY S. CARDON Stake for twenty-three years and who has been a devout member and loyal supporter of Relief Society during her entire lifetime. She is the only living member of the first Relief Society organized in Cache Stake in 1868. The original Cache Stake over which she presided has since been divided into seven stakes. Sister Lula Y. Smith, the present president of Cache Stake, pays the following tribute to Sister Cardon: "She has won the love and respect of every one who knows her, and in the twilight hour of her life she still sheds the inspiration of a great personality. Years of public service remove all sham and reveal a spirit aglow with an inner glory. This is true of Sister Cardon. Eighty-seven years have added to the charm of her gracious dignity, stately bearing and humility of soul. Her life is a lesson in the power of serenity and understanding to shed great peace. Her courage and faith through all the trials of life have given strength to so many of those who know and love her. Her dignity, her wonderful service and inspiring personality will live with us always as a monument to a life made perfect. She truly exemplifies Relief Society in its highest form." In appreciation of her wonderful life and her untiring devotion to the Relief Society cause, which she still supports in her inimitable way, the wards of Cache Stake presented her with a beautiful flowering plan and a letter expressing their love and appreciation. South Davis Stake THE 17th of March was very fittingly observed by the Farmington Ward Relief Society at Memorial Hall in Farmington, appropriately decorated for the occasion. The president, Sister Ethel Udy, and her counselors were at the center of the speakers' table, and on their left were seated all the former presidents of the Farmington Relief Society. At the right were women representing the seven general pres- idents of Relief Society. In front the seats were occupied by the honorary members of the organization and special guests. The program was in keeping with the occasion. The sisters representing the general presidents ere dressed in the styles of the periods in which the sisters lived. Following the presentation of a most appropriate program, a hot luncheon was served to the members and guests. 'The picture represents those who impersonated the seven presidents. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 419 SISTERS OF SOUTH DAVIS STAKE IMPERSONATING GENERAL PRESIDENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY. Smithfield Stake THOUGH Smithfield is one of the newer stakes, it has made a most enviable record in Relief Society activities. 'This is especially demonstrated by the Membership Drive, which was conducted during the latter part of 1938. This particular activity was known as the Friendship Drive, and the stake has every reason to feel that it was most successful. The ward co-ordinators and proved in every way to be good salesmen of the Relief Society. The friendly campaign was officially launched on November 15; 1938. Each ward had the type of party or social which it desired, directed by the ward coordinator. During the campaign each ward coordinator prepared for her respective group a friendship chain. This was made of gold paper, and as each new member joined the ranks a new link was added. Each member, old and new, was asked to write her name on the gold link which represented her, thus making a wonderful chain of true and everlasting friendship. The slogan, "Members old, members new, one hundred thousand by "42," was extensively used with the hope that people would become Relief Society conscious. The slogan was printed on very attractive banners and displayed in a prominent place in each ward. Over this slogan the friendship chain was hung. In order to obtain golden key success the wards understand that they must obtain their four-year membership quota. The stake board will then present the successful wards with the golden key. It was the feeling of the stake that 420 JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a short and intensive campaign would be more successful, so the Membership Drive for 1938 ended officially December 15. At its conclusion the stake Relief Society tained all members of the Relief Society. A short program was presented. One Hundred Thousand. Strong was sung by the group, prayer offered by Bishop Roskelley and an address of welcome given by the Relief Society stake president, Anne M. Farr. The chorus of Relief Society Singing Mothers rendered an original friendship song, written by the chorister, Eugenia Lundquist. The stake co-ordinator, ™ Sonoma, Y. Toolson, gave a report of the membership gains in each ward. The Singing Mothers presented a group of Christmas songs after which the picture David Copperfield was shown. A large and enthusiastic group attended. North Sevier Stake MONG the many original and significant symbols used in promoting the Membership Drive, the "Ship of Progress," used by one of AMY J. PETERSON the wards of the North Sevier Stake, is one of the most attractive. It is designed to show the progress of board enter- » hore a H SHIP 9 PROGRESS eg MEMBERSHIP SYMBOL, SALINA FIRST WARD. The Drive to its completion in 1942. The ship has three decks. Each member is represented by a candle. The top deck includes all of the active and honorary members. 'The second deck includes the new members. These are to be transferred to the top deck when the total number of new members reaches 27, which is the number necessary for the ward to make its quota. The third deck includes all of the inactive members, and when they become active they are transferred to the top deck. This ship is decorated in Relief Society colors, blue and gold. The blue banner running alongside the ship contains the slogan, and the streamers have all the ward members' names written on them. As each member pays her annual dues, a golden star is placed by her name, This symbol of the ship has very successfully stimulated membership. Since last fall the Society has achieved 100% in the payment of annual dues and acquired twenty new members; sixteen inactive members have been transferred to the active roll. It is the plan to light the candles in 1942. This attractive, symbolical ship was planned and built by Mrs. James Kane and Mrs. Merle Mickelson of the Salina First Ward. Amy J. Peterson has been an active member in the Relief Society for over thirty years and is first counselor in the First Ward Relief Society at present. Star Valley Stake HE Afton North Ward Relief Society of the Star Valley Stake RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 421 held a very appropriate celebration on March 17. An interesting program of readings and a tribute to the Relief Society were features, together with beautiful music furnished by the Relief Society Singing ANNIVERSARY DAY, STAR VALLEY STAKE Mothers. A delicious hot dinner was served to about 175 people. One of the interesting features was the large four-layer birthday cake, a picture of which is here shown. 'This cake was made and decorated by the Relief Society presidency, carrying out the color scheme of blue and gold, with 97 candles. The happy day was concluded with a successful dancing party in which the South Afton Ward joined. The music featured both the old and the new dances. MUSIC DEPARTMENT Requisites Of A Good Conductor By Wade N. Stephens (Conference Address) I. Mechanics of Time Beating. From the body, toward the chorus. 1. Has same duration as a full beat in tempo to be used. 2. Comes from direction of beat preceding beginning of music. C. Cut off: 1. If at end of piece or section, cut off is straight down, the hand continuing down to relaxed position at the side. 2. If music continues, cut off moves toward the place the next cue beat begins. D. Hold: 1. The baton is held almost horizontally, point slightly up. 2. The movement is away 3 4 8 ry of a song will show the conaged, (Canidae P emotion expressed therein. 248 8 These are types: 248 8 2. Grief. Slow 6 3. Joy. Slow 9 otism).. ' moods. Fine the specific mood of each moment of the piece. There are an infinite number of possible words. 'These are examples: 1. Love. A. Passion, tenderness, longing, etc. 2. Grief. A. Sadness, sorrow, hopelessness, etc. 3- Joy. A. Happiness, joyousness, gladness, etc. 4. Religious fervor. A. Praise, thankfulness, reverence, etc. 5. Unemotional passive moods. A. Beat Patterns: 3 3 3 (and g in fast tempo) nd 1 2sigMeNttemeay 2 2 2 (and 6 in fast tempo) 8 g Slow 12 8 B. Cue Beat: II. Emotional Analysis of the Piece A. Careful reading of the words ductor the general type of 1. Love. 4. Religious fervor (or patti- 5. Unemotional, passive B. When the emotional type is discovered, a single word should be found that will de- a. Contentment, contemplation, restfulness, etc. III. Translation of the Mood into Music, Principally Through the Judicious Choic¢ and Variation of 'Tempo and Dynamics. A. Tempo: 1. Fast tempos usually express some form of joy.. Medium tempos usually Express best. Slow tempos usually express some form of grief. The tempos of pieces expressing love and religious fervor are usually faster if the mood contains joy, slower if it contains sorrow. Passive moods
B. Dynamics:
1. Less intense emotion of any kind may be expressed either by extreme loudness or extreme softness. Intense emotions call for medium loudness or medium softness.
2. In songs, the sentence structure partially controls the finer shading. Nouns, pronouns, adjectives, adverbs and verbs are sung louder than conjunctions and prepositions. The most important word of the sentence or phrase is usually sung loudest, preceded by a crescendo and followed by a diminuendo.
3. The accented syllables of a word are sung louder than unaccented ones.
4. The musical phrase usually consists of 4 (sometimes 2) measures, with a point of rest at the end. It should be treated in one or more of the following ways: a. It may be louder in the middle and softer at both ends, or vice versa. b. When the melody goes up, sing louder, when it goes down, softer. c. A very long note should not usually be the same loudness throughout. d. When a phrase or section is repeated, do not do it the same way both times. The words will usually determine which to do.
IV. Projection of the Mood to the Singers: A. A large beat goes with a slow tempo, a small one with a fast tempo.
1. Tempo changes can be indicated by changing both size and speed, either gradually or suddenly. Change of speed alone is not enough.
B. When tempo remains the same, a large beat indicates loudness, a small one softness.
1. Dynamics changes can be indicated by changing the size of the beat, keeping its speed constant.
2. Intensity of any type of emotion can be communicated to the singers by tensing the muscles of the entire body.
C. Attack, Release, Accent, Change in speed - In these, the motions of the left hand parallel those of the right.
D. Think of the emotion to be expressed. This will result in appropriate facial expression, which is the most effective of all means of projecting mood.
E. The left hand is used always for emphasis. When raised, it attracts attention. Therefore, it should be used only when needed, and relaxed at the side the rest of the time. These are uses of the left hand: a. Soft, palm down b. Louder, palm up c. Loudest, doubled fist. Intensity of emotion is expressed by tension in the muscles of the hand and arm. d. Special indications to individual parts, accomplished by pointing at the section involved at the proper time. e. Change in dynamics.
F. Breathing pauses can be indicated by taking a breath in such a way that the singers can do it with you.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 423
IT'S NO SECRET By Anna Prince Redd
A little wind, a little rain, A breath of scented rhapsody half pain, Clouds in ultramarine blue, Buds just swelling, wet with dew, Bird a-tilt upon a limb Joy of life quite bursting him; Things a-tremble with new birth, Pungent odors from the earth, Reviving warmth, the clean washed smell, Oh all the world combines to tell— It's Spring!
424 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON PREVIEW 1939-40
Theology and Testimony MINISTRY OF THE EARLY APOSTLES
The course in Theology for the year 1939-40 is to be a continuation of the New Testament, containing further information about the "Ministry of The Early Apostles," their personalities and lives. We feel sure the lessons will be inspiring and helpful to all those who study them, for great effort has been taken in their preparation; much research and exhaustive reading have been necessary. The lessons on John the Beloved, Matthew the Publican and Paul the Missionary are especially colorful and interesting. Such a course carefully studied will enrich the lives of all who have the privilege of taking it. It forms a foundation for character building, for a better understanding of human relations, and a greater appreciation of everything worth while in life's experience.
Following are the lesson titles:
1. John the Beloved.
2. John the Beloved (Cont'd.).
3. Matthew the Publican.
4. Saul the Pharisee and Persecutor.
5. Saul's Vision and the Changed Life.
6. Paul the Missionary.
7. Paul the Missionary (Cont'd.).
8. Paul the Writer.
9. Paul's Lasting Influence.
Visiting Teacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME
The spiritual messages to be presented by the visiting teachers are taken from the teachings of the Early Apostles. These messages correlate with the Theology lessons and are designed to improve personalities and strengthen both home and church relationships.
The following messages are to be presented:
1. Establishing Goals.
2. Unity.
3. Befitting Speech.
4. Gifts.
5. Manifestations of Love.
6. Giving.
7. Kindness.
8. Unselfishness.
9. Charity Never Faileth.
Work and Business Department The Selection and Preparation of Food for Proper Nutrition
I. Family's Food Supply A. What to eat B. How much to eat C. Why to eat it (food values) D. Preparation to retain food values E. How to provide year's food supply
1. Production of food supply (a) Home gardens, poultry, meat supply (family cow), etc.
2. Purchasing of foods which cannot be produced at home
II. Food Sanitation A. Work shop (kitchen) B. Worker C. Food supply
1. Market
2. At home (a) Milk, vegetables, fruits, meats, etc.
III. Clean Dishes A. Why clean dishes? B. What are clean dishes? C. How to get clean dishes
1. Desirable equipment
2. Desirable methods
IV. Selection and Preparation of Vegetables A. What vegetables to use
1. Green, yellow or leafy
2. Potatoes
3. One other B. Why to use them
4. Food values C. How to prepare them
5. Cooking of the vegetables
6. Salad preparation
V. The Efficient Kitchen for Food Preparation A. Selection and Care of Equipment and Utensils
1. Stove
2. Refrigerator
3. Sink
4. Tables, stools
5. Utensils B. Arrangement
6. Time and effort saving arrangement for preparing and serving of food
7. Best arrangements for cleaning up
8. Storage for staples
9. Storage for perishables
10. Storage for utensils
11. A planning or business center for efficiency
VI. Food Habits and Appetites A. What are good food habits? B. Why have good food habits? C. How to develop good food habits
1. Start early
2. Introduce new foods gradually
3. Emphasize power of example
4. Provide proper environment
5. Use attractive service
VII. Healthful Kitchens for Wholesome Food A. Safe supply of water—running hot and cold water B. Sanitary disposal of kitchen waste C. Light, both day and night—surface finishes, natural light, artificial light D. Heat and ventilation—screening E. Freedom from accident hazards F. Safe and efficient cleaning methods
1. Walls
2. Woodwork
3. Floors
4. Stove
5. Sink
6. Refrigerator
7. Utensils
VIII. Lunches Away From Home A. What comprises a good lunch? B. Why have a good lunch? C. How to prepare a good lunch
IX. Preservation of the Food Supply A. What to preserve
1. Amount to preserve B. Why preserve foods? C. How to preserve foods
2. Storage (a) For winter (b) Short-time storage
3. Drying
4. Canning
5. Freezing
Helpful material and suggestions on each of the lessons will be sent to stake presidents and mission presidents in the United States.
Literary Department THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
The Literary study for 1939-40 is a continuation of "The Advance of the Novel," with the same objectives as stated at the beginning of the course: To trace the novel from its beginning and show the dominant position it holds in the field of literature today; to develop taste and judgment in selecting from the very extensive number of books available; to exercise literary guidance and to help interpret some of the masterpieces of fiction.
The Advance of the English Novel by William Lyon Phelps will still be found a stimulating and delightful reference book. The Story of the World's Literature by John Macy will be used as a reference. This book was purchased by the stakes and wards for use in the 1933-4 Literary course, "Life and Literature". It should have been preserved and will be found very useful in the present course.
Three great novels will be studied and can be obtained at the Deseret Book Store after July 1, 1939: Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc—Mark Twain............$1.75 Les Miserables—Victor Hugo.....1.00 The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse—Blasco Ibanez.....1.00 The Story of the World's Literature—John Macy.........75
Social Service Psychology and Modern Problems
The aim of the Social Service lessons for the coming year is to apply psychology to the problems with which every mature person is faced in an ever changing world today. If we are to conduct ourselves wisely in meeting the rapidly changing daily scene, we need most of all to understand ourselves and each other. The world is a troubled one today, not because we lack control over the forces of nature, but because we do not fully understand ourselves and each other. The course for the coming year is designed to broaden our understanding of human nature and thereby to contribute to happy living.
The following lesson titles indicate the scope of the subject matter to be presented:
1. How Does Propaganda Affect Me?
2. Psychology of Fads, Crazes, and Fashions.
3. How Shall I Conduct Myself in an Age of Automobiles?
4. Psychology of Resisting Sales Pressure.
5. How to Sell the Gospel.
6. Psychology of Personal Efficiency.
7. Superstition or Reason—Which Shall I Follow?
8. Psychology of Happy Living.
No Social Service lesson or lesson in Family Relationships is planned for December.
Mission Lessons L. D. S. Church History (To be used on Literary day)
This is a course in the history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It does not aim to include the teachings or doctrines of the Church, except incidentally, as they are associated with the historical events. Before an idea can properly be understood, something must be known of the conditions under which it was received, something about the person or persons to whom it was given, and something about the way it was developed and applied in human life. It is the purpose of the present course to give these preliminary matters. Most of this material is in the form of narrative, incident, story, and is for this reason exceedingly interesting and understandable. In association with this history are some poems and songs composed under the spirit of the Restored Gospel. It is hoped that these will add to both the information and the enjoyment of those who take this course. The poems may be memorized, discussed in the class, and the songs sung, as the teacher may see fit. In every case, however, they grew out of the situation treated in the lesson in which they appear.
There can be no question as to the importance of such a course. The revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith were intended for those who live in this Dispensation, just as the Bible was intended for the Christian and the pre-Christian Dispensation and the Book of Mormon for the peoples who lived on the American continents anciently. Joseph Smith is pre-eminently our prophet, and he is so in exactly the same sense that Isaiah was an Hebraic prophet, Alma the Elder a prophet to the Nephites, and Mahonri the prophet of the Jaredites. Since this is so, it should follow that nothing can be of greater importance to our generation than to know how God has manifested himself to us in this age of the world. As God adapted his revelations to the Hebrews and to the peoples of the Book of Mormon, so he has adapted his revelations to us. And the following lessons are the history of how that was done:
1. The First Vision.
2. Cumorah and the Book.
3. The Ancient Plates.
4. Our Book of Mormon.
5. Witnesses.
6. Organization of the Church.
7. Early Growth of the Church.
8. The Church Moves West.
9. Events in Missouri.
Education for Family Life FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS
In harmony with the wishes of members of the classes in Education for Family Life as expressed by stake presidents at our recent April Conference, we shall continue our lessons in Family Relationships during the year 1939-40. The theme for the basis of our discussions shall be "My Home is My Refuge". It shall be our aim to make the lessons as practical, as stimulating, and as interesting as possible. In planning the lessons we shall keep in mind particularly the needs of our young parents, those who have more recently assumed the responsibilities of founding a home and of rearing a family. In our discussions we shall consider the family as "a unity of interacting personalities," thus emphasizing the great importance and the high value of the human relationship factor in family life.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 429
The following are the lesson titles:
1. The Importance of Unimportant Things.
2. My Responsibility To My Home Partner.
3. The Family Pocketbook.
4. My Parents Do Not Know Me.
5. The Place of the Father in the Home.
6. Family Strength in Proportion to Family Unity.
7. The Family Council Plan.
8. My Home Is My Refuge.
MY GOAL By Flo Seegmiller Hall
If there's a thing I long for In this old hectic life, It is to keep my soul at peace Through all the toil and strife.
I want the most a happy home Where everyone is glad, Where corn is popped and taffy pulled Whether times be good or bad.
I want to grow old gracefully, To keep alert and gay; To keep the faith and know my God, And not forget to pray.
But most of all I want my walls A perfect haven of rest For him who works so hard to earn The things with which we're blest.
I want his steps to quicken When he starts home at night, His thoughts to be of loved ones, A hearth that's warm and bright.
I want my home to be a place Where sacrifice is known, For it's by aches and tears and pain That we become full grown.
430 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
I LIKE YOUR FACE By Marguerite Burnhope Harris
"You're nice, my Mother," said my five-year-old; Then watching more intently, "It's your face." Ah, blessed am I that words so sweet should grace My morn and turn a weary day to gold.
So now I pray that as the years unfold, And I go onward in life's constant race, That I shall weave their days like perfect lace And merit sometime those same words, retold.
If blessings from the Heavens grant me life When birthdays five times five my babe has had, I shall be thankful, and my heart be glad,
And joy within will recompense the strife If she can look at me and truly say, "I like your face; you are so nice today."
Did Nauvoo Have A Spirit? (Continued from page 371)
of at least twenty thousand people presented the glorious sight of being protected by the counsel of God, and watched over by the trustworthiness of bishops and deacons."
By May of that year the capstone of the Temple was laid. When one considers that this was just eleven months after the Martyrdom, and at that time the Temple was only one story high, a clearer insight into the intense activity that pervaded the little town is gained. Evidently nothing could break apart this united people, but persecutions continued. By September of that year mobbings began in earnest and things became so intolerable that the Saints agreed to leave in the spring. The sacrifices necessary for them to make were tragic, but did they sit down and ponder upon it? No, greater activity ensued! There were wagons to build or repair, warm clothing to be made ready, food supplies to gather, etc. What a busy scene the little town presented! But spring was too long to wait for the self-appointed persecutors of the Mormons, and on a cold night in February the Saints were driven from their homes. Nine babies were born that night in the midst of ice and sleet! Yes, driven from the little city they had created and built with their own hands; and with them was driven out the Spirit of Cooperation that had given Nauvoo life and energy, and it remained behind lifeless! Like a canopy that spirit spread over the people; they believed in their new leader, they obeyed his word, they followed him to the Mountains! Oh there were a few who saw greener fields and strayed along the way, or turned back, but for the most part the main body of the Church was loyal.
I have led hundreds back to Nauvoo, and always I have felt that we were gazing upon the bier of the departed. Departed loved ones, to be sure, for there, among other noble ones, lie buried the first Presiding Bishop of the Church, Edward Partridge, of whom God said, he was like Nathanael of old—a man without guile; and the first Presiding Patriarch of the Church and his wife, "Mother Smith," and their martyred sons, Joseph and Hyrum! On such sober occasions one's mind becomes reflective. We have evidence that the Prophet knew the Saints would be driven to the Rocky Mountains. Knowing this, and with the tragic experience of having lost their homes in the past, and in view of the immediate need for shelter, one wonders that time would be taken to lay out a city. The streets are well defined and many named for the Church leaders. Why should the people build so well homes of such beautiful design, and why should the spot for the rearing of the Temple be chosen with such care? Standing on the site, which is located on the crest of the little city, facing the city, one can see the bends of the river, for it is exactly one mile distant in three directions to the noble Father of Waters. Why all this care and effort? Could it be that the Prophet wanted the lifeless Nauvoo to stand as a monument to the accomplishments of the Spirit of Cooperation?
(Continued on next page)
Nauvoo—1939
One hundred years ago a band of Latter-day Saints, under the guiding genius of Brigham Young, moved out of Missouri. Shortly thereafter, in a swampy wilderness, they started work on their new home which was destined to become one of the most historic spots in the mid-west as well as all America. They called it Nauvoo, which in Hebrew means, "The Beautiful Place."
On your way to Nauvoo ride the Exposition Flyer, new through train service to the East this summer. Lv. Salt Lake City.. 9:30 pm Ar. Burlington, Iowa. 8:53 am Ar. Montrose, Iowa.. 4:14 pm
The Historic Train conducted by Vida Fox Clawson leaves Salt Lake City July 15th. This Historic Train uses special Air-conditioned Burlington equipment from Salt Lake City to Chicago and provides an excellent opportunity to visit Independence, Nauvoo and other time-hallowed spots near by.
J. H. GREGORY, General Agent Burlington Route 218 Kearns Building Salt Lake City Phone: Wasatch 1899
Through this Spirit of Cooperation the great Inland Empire was founded, in spite of hardship and persecution from within and without. But as time went on, persecutions from without ceased; competition became more keen, selfishness crept in and the spirit of brotherhood waned, but never at any time did it die. The time has now come when the Spirit of Cooperation among the people is again evident. Our present-day Prophet, Heber J. Grant, has given the word, and a renewed spirit has taken hold of us. The interest of the whole must be put above the interest of the individual. Oh, yes, once again we find a few complainers, those who feel that "part of a tithe is sufficient" and those who say "the Church shouldn't get into business" and so on and so forth, but the main body of the Church is being thrilled with this Spirit of Cooperation that is abroad once more. And it will spread until it passes beyond the Mountains and will return once more to the western shore of the Mississippi! Will it stop there? No, it will cross, and the SPIRIT OF NAUVOO will return! In the opinion of this writer, once again the tools of the worker will cheerfully sing; homes of our leaders will be rebuilt; and it is not even improbable that the Temple may rise from the dust, and the Saints stand by the grave of the Prophet and sing:
"The Seer, the Seer, Joseph the Seer! He loved the Saints, he loved Nauvoo."
What a glorious time! I hope, Gentle Reader, that you and I might live to see that day, don't you?
Relief Society Literary Course Books 1939 AND 1940
BASIC TEXT: The Story of the World's Literature... John Macy Special Relief Society Price ....75¢
OTHER BOOKS: Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc ...Mark Twain Special Relief Society Price...$1.75
Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse...Vincente Blasco Ibanez Special Relief Society Price...$1.00
Les Miserables...Victor Hugo Special Relief Society Price...$1.00
Plus Sales Tax in Utah
We still have copies of special editions of Books on 1938-1939 Course for those who desire them for their personal libraries.
HEADQUARTERS FOR BOOKS, GIFTS AND GREETING CARDS FOR EVERY OCCASION
DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah
LOCAL BEET SUGAR FOR HOME CANNING
Preserve your favorite fruits! They'll taste mighty good next winter. And be sure to use Beet Sugar for you can't buy better sugar for canning, preserving, jellies, jams or for any sweetening purpose. Pure, fine granulated, quick dissolving... It gives perfect results, and every bag you buy helps the West's sugar beet farmers.
INTERMOUNTAIN BEET SUGAR COMPANIES
"You don't have to sell me on Life Insurance... I started to sell newspapers to help Mom, but she said I'd better take it easy for a little and enjoy myself, 'cause Dad's insurance will take care of us till I grow up!"
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Heber J. Grant, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah
If your subscription has run out now—don't wait until fall to renew it, then think that you will be able to get the back numbers you will have missed by that time. While we do order some extras, our supply is not unlimited. Our circulation is increasing now at a rate that makes it difficult for us to know how many of you will want August numbers in October. Let us have your renewal now. Your ward agent will receive credit for your subscription if you mention it to her when she calls.
Index to Advertisers Beneficial Life Insurance Company.. Back Cover Brigham Young University........ 441 Deseret News Press..... Inside Back Cover Deseret Book Company.... Inside Back Cover Fisher's Master Bakers.... » » » « « « « 431 L. D. S. Business College.. Salt Lake Knitting Store........ » 906
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MORE THAN 40,000 SUBSCRIBERS
SUMMER SCHOOL where SUMMER'S Cool
The joy of learning is increased in the delightful surroundings of Brigham Young University's Alpine summer school. Study-time is vacation-time as well on the unique summer campus at Aspen Grove, 6,800 feet above sea-level in the north fork of Provo Canyon. A full half-quarter of college credit may be earned during the five weeks' term. Write for a summer catalog to the Dean of the Summer Session.
Alpine Term Dates July 25 to August 26
BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Provo, Utah
"L. D. S. Training Pays!"
After High School... What?
Increase your "employability" with a course in stenography, accounting, or general office work.
Register any Monday in June
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City
Ask for "Bulletin of Information"
FISHER'S BREAD WHOLESOME and DELICIOUS
Fisher's Bread is good—and is good for you. Because it helps build good teeth and strong bones.
A Product of THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS
The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVI JULY, 1939 No. 7
Contents
Special Features Our Cover ......................................................................... 433 Frontispiece—Heritage....................................................... 434 Woman As An Interpreter of the Faith...............................Maude B. Jacob 435 Recreation of the Pioneers................................................Juanita Brooks 439 Sweets For The Persistent................................................Mable S. Harmer 443 Map of United States of America ....................................Leland Peterson 468-469
Fiction Hoops For Amanda..........................................................Martha Robeson Wright 446 A Gift of Wings................................................................Alice Morrey Bailey 455 The Shining Heart............................................................Sibyl S. Bowen 463
General Features Relief Society Participation in Church Welfare .................................................. 452 Ishbel, Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair.......................Annie Wells Cannon 453 Happenings.....................................................................Annie Wells Cannon 460
Editorials: Our Available Wealth ......................................................................................... 461 Wheat Interest .................................................................................................. 462
The Selection of an Adequate Dietary ..............................Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe 470 Notes from the Field........................................................Julia A. F. Lund 476 Mormon Handicraft .........................................................Nellie O. Parker 480 Music Department (Sir Joseph Barnby) ............................................................. 482
Lessons John the Beloved ............................................................................................ 483 Establishing Goals........................................................................................... 486 "Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc" ............................................................ 487 Psychology of Fads, Crazes, and Fashions ...................................................... 491 The Family Council Plan ................................................................................. 495 L. D. S. Church History .................................................................................. 499
Poetry Heritage.........................................................................Cleone Montgomery 434 Immortal Pioneer............................................................Morris Olsen 442 Empire Builders .............................................................Zella Jones Landon 451 My Prayer......................................................................Vera P. Bollschweiler 479
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 11038, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
OUR COVER
This beautiful and story-telling monument by the sculptor Torlief Knaphus stands in a prominent position in the Bureau of Information on Temple Square. It represents nearly 4,000 men, women and children who crossed the plains on foot in the great Handcart migration from 1856 to 1860. These courageous people pulled or pushed their handcarts for 1,000 miles between the Missouri River and Salt Lake City. Some may wonder at this method of pioneer travel. The following quotation from the general instruction of the First Presidency of October, 1855, sheds much light:
"We are sanguine that such a train will out-travel any ox train that can be started. They should have a few good cows to furnish milk, and a few beef cattle to drive and butcher as they may need. In this way the expense, risk, loss and perplexity of teams will be obviated, and the saints will more effectually escape the scenes of distress, anguish and death which have often laid so many of our brethren and sisters in the dust."
The three Handcart companies who left early in the summer of 1856 arrived safely in September and October without serious adventure or loss. There were two other companies that set out too late in the summer of 1856. Their history is a tragedy, making one of the saddest pages of Latter-day Saint history. They were caught in the mountains by snowstorms and would never have reached the Salt Lake Valley if their rescue had not been effected by heroic men with teams and provisions. Even this help arrived too late for many. Other companies followed with the years, but the tragic experiences of the 4th and 5th companies were not repeated.
The Handcart companies brought to the State artisans, traders, agriculturists, blacksmiths, and men learned in all professions. While the hardships were many, the Handcart migration stands out as one of the greatest economic and social factors in the history of the Pioneers.
HERITAGE
The will and power to make our destinies, To seek, to choose, to cherish, and to work; The right to worship how and where we please— God gave; we must not, dare not, shirk
The task, the joy, of passing on this creed To those whose strength must serve tomorrow's need. —Cleone Montgomery. The Relief Society? Magazine Vol. XXVI Woman As An Interpreter ~ Of The Faith By Maude Beeley Jacob "A woman's rank lies in the fullness of her womanhood." WOMEN today point with pride, and justly so, to their accomplishments in the professions, the arts, commerce, industry, education, and politics. Today, the position and service of woman is elevated to a point never before attained; today, the power and responsibility of woman is most potent. In this new pride of achievement one pauses to ask, is the ancient pride of the mother of the Gracchi forgotten? In this new elevation of responsibility is woman neglecting her place in the trinity of father, mother, and child? Many and varied are the opinions of those who are considering the role of woman in the world of today. In discussing the heritage of woman, invariably the emphasis is placed upon her ignominious role as the possession of man in the ancient world. Anathemas re still being hurled at Eve for the woes of man and the world generally. The long struggle of emergence from "female to woman" receives much historical attention. Feminism and anti-feminism call for many a eulogy and many a diatribe. The pessimist looks to the future of civilization with alarm as he claims that because woman has stepped out of her role family and fireside have "left the house". To reveal the delusion of equality woman is constantly reminded that a woman has not yet been a Shakespeare, or a Newton, or a Michelangelo, or a Beethoven. Of the divinity of woman, her place in the scheme of creation, what has been said? Of the age-old role of woman, that of mother-teacher, her supreme contribution, what is needed most to be said? That which will bring to the heart of woman the conviction that: "God has placed the genius of woman in their hearts, because the works of this genius are always works of love." In the great heart of woman her significance intellectually, politically, or socially is not the supreme issue. Now, as of old, she accepts her dual role, that of mother and of teacher. Today, the sanctity of the home rests primarily upon marriage. The entire future of civilization depends upon parenthood. "To open the capacities of body, mind, and spirit, so that life may flow in upon a young soul" is the mission of motherhood. To this double-natured motherhood St. Augustine pays tribute as he records his eulogy of his mother, Monica: "She was twice my mother, brought me to birth in the flesh, that I might be born into this earthly light; in heart that I might JULY, 1939 No. 7 436 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be born into light eternal." Ibsen, the keen analyst of the social forces that have molded our modern civilization, saw the significance of woman's dual role: "Women will solve the question of mankind, and they will do it as mothers. They will serve also as teachers, the earliest of schoolrooms being the mother's knee." From the pages of the great literary expression of the ages as well as from the creations of art and sculpture it is in this dual role which woman stands glorified and immortalized. S the "Mothers of Israel" lie revealed in the lives of the women of the Old Testament, it is the mother-love of the mothers of Moses and Samuel we turn to for inspiration. It was the mother-love that inspired the mother of Moses to place her babe that the woman-heart of Pharoah's daughter might cause his life to be spared. It, too, was her task to keep alive in her child's soul the faith of his fathers, trust in the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, a preparation which was to make him ready to be called by God to deliver Israel. It was gratitude for the gift of motherhood that gave Hannah courage to fulfil her promise and prepare her son, Samuel, for God's service. Directing the boy's earliest thoughts toward Jehovah she related the great events in the history of the Hebrews, the lives of great leaders were told and retold with pride of detail; for in the Talmud Hannah had read, "Who is best taught?" also the answer, "He that is taught by - his mother." To her this was her sacred obligation. After her son was accepted for service in the temple, Hannah's task received its approbation. Then yearly she went to present the family sacrifice, taking with her the garments she had fashioned with her own hands for her son to wear. This was her joy and her renewing. The reward of Hannah as of the mother of Moses came in the service of the sons that they had prepared for God's great purposes. Christianity, through Mary of Nazareth, the mother of Jesus, brought to the earth the divinity of motherhood. 'To us today Mary, the Mother, is a mystical figure unless her life is re-created out of the historical fabric of the New Testament. At her knee Jesus learned the record, laws, and wisdom of the Jews. To Joseph and Mary as Hebrew parents the training of a son was a serious responsibility. By the age of twelve he must know the commandments of Moses, the six hundred other laws that had been added to them, also the two hundred and fifty-eight forbids, for Judaism had become a religion of exacting discipline. Then there was the historical record of the Old 'Testament to know in detail as well as the wisdom of the prophets. Knowing as she did the divinity of Jesus and expecting the fulfillment of the Messiahship, how sacred the early training of the boy Jesus must have been to Mary. How she must have followed with eager concern the preparation for the first Passover at Jerusalem; how anxious for the approbation of the learned rabbis for her son's preparation, preparation for the divine mission. Throughout the ministry of Jesus we lose sight of Mary. Mary Borden in the biography Mary of Nazareth paints an unforgettable picture of the unrevealed nother of Jesus. It may err in detail, but in portraying the heart of Mary, the mother, it is a revelation of the mother-heart of womankind: It is a Sabbath evening and Mary is teaching Joseph and Jude, her grandchildren, one of the holy traditions that was to rule their lives. "'Say it, children," she urged; "with what materials may the Sabbath lamps be lighted and with what may they not be lighted?" But before the little ones could answer, Mary's mind had wandered to Jesus teaching His new and surprising doctrine in Galilee. Strange reports had come to the tiny home in Nazareth to the effect that Jesus had been cast out of the synagogue for breaking the Law. Mary begged to be taken to her Son thinking that she could make peace with his enemies by pleading with Jesus to refrain from antagonizing the priests. But James had refused his mother, cautioning her to have nothing more to do with her son. At last Mary started out alone. Always she missed Jesus for He had gone on to Jerusalem. Then came the day when with Mary of Bethany and Mary of Magdala, the women who understood the mission of Jesus, she stood by the cross on Calvary. "These women who were the last at the cross and the earliest at the grave." Thus we see in Mary, the mother of Jesus, a pattern of motherhood often puzzled and bewildered, yet trusting implicitly to the end. Good women have been the vehicles of divine inspiration and influence to the world continually. Few, however, like Cornelia, the Roman matron, have been honored by such a tribute for giving noble sons to the service of their country as she was in the statue erected with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 437 the inscription, "Cornelia, the Mother of the Gracchi." Great mothers have seemed "unhonored and unsung" each generation, but from their combined efforts have arisen the refining factors of civilization. To man's material world of conquest and dominion they have brought the things of the spirit, "an influence constantly exerted on father, husband, son, or friend, a power wielded from the family hearth to the homes of science and the halls of legislation'. O the women of today the Prophet Joseph Smith brought the true significance of woman's place in God's plan of creation—the great principle of an Eternal Mother as a partner with the Father in the heavenly spheres. Women's rights in the modern sense in the light of this sublime truth fade into nothingness. The divine right of woman is to participate in the spiritual gifts of the. Gospel through the holy Priesthood.. Man and Woman! Truly, "they rise or fall together, dwarfed or God-like, bond or free." When the roll of honor is called of the "Mothers of Mormonism," the mothers of the prophetic leaders of the Church will lead the list by royal right of the glorious sons they bore, God's chosen servants in the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times of the everlasting Gospel. From different lands and creeds and cultures they came but with one outstanding characteristic, a deep and abiding faith in God. Lucy Mack Smith, mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith, will head the roll of honor. Keen of intellect, benevolent in heart and understanding in spirit she accepted the calling and teach- 438 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ings of her son. Through persecution, suffering, and martyrdom she remained faithful to the cause of right. Brigham Young carried with him through life the memory of a mother whose gentle manners, refined taste, and beautiful devotion influenced so completely the lives of her children. A mother whose tact and sympathy mellowed the Puritan sternness of the father. A mother who taught her children their letters and what little schooling she knew. Whose admonitions were "Always to honor the name of the Father and the Son; to revere the Holy Book and observe its precepts." The life of Mary Fielding Smith, the mother of President Joseph F'. Smith, is the record of a heroine in very deed by reason of her greatness of spirit and soul. Her glorious faith, her indefatigable industry, her personal charm, and her glorious courage are a noble pattern for the young womanhood of today to know and to emulate. The mothers of Wilford Woodruff, John Taylor, and Lorenzo Snow, take their places in the gallery of our honored women as we know and appreciate them through the lives of our revered leaders. So often has the beautiful life of Rachel Ivins Grant been made the illustration of noble precepts and testimony that we honor her for her own life as well as for the life of our living Prophet and Leader. To the noble woman, Eliza R. Snow, supreme in faith, superior in intellect, and a genius in expression the women of Mormonism owe the beautiful expression of the place of women in the philosophy of eternal progression. Taught the sublime truth by the Prophet Joseph Smith she gave it to the world as the poem, "O My Father," testifying to all mankind of the existence of an eternal motherhood. All that modern progress has done for woman is accepted, its liberation, its education, and its opportunities; all that women have achieved is accepted with gratitude as well as with pride. With a more complete understanding of her own mission comes the realization that whatever other role she wishes to combine with motherhood, be it industry, business, or professional life, is her prerogative, but her obligation remains unaltered in the motherteacher role. With the assurance that comes to the women of the Church of their place in the eternal scheme of the Creator what is the contribution which may be accepted of them? What is the great need of today? The great need of the world today is a true conception of the purpose of life; that God is the Eternal Father of all; that the laws of eternal progress are divine laws; that to each — individual falls the responsibility for his own acts; that personality is sacred; and that the greatest of all laws is the Divine law of Love. To fill her role as mother to her children is not all. As the mothers of Israel of old, she must be in very deed an interpreter of the faith, interpreting for them God, His laws and His love. 'To the women of her generation she must bring through the pattern of her life an interpretation of the true mission of motherhood. As the Gospel of Jesus Christ has brought to woman her greatest possession it should be now her greatest responsibility to make her life an interpretation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Recreation of the Pioneers By Juanita Brooks "A merry heart doeth good like medicine, but a broken spirit drieth up the bones." BRIGHAM YOUNG realized the literal truth of this Proverb and in all his colonizing programs encouraged the people in recreational activities, often "calling" aman to a newsettlement who could furnish music or who could direct the singing or dramatics. He knew from his experience in crossing the plains how often weary bodies were refreshed when hearts were uplifted in song or cheered by the dance. The hardships attending the establishment of the empire in Utah were no less strenuous than those on the plains, and the people were in as much need of recreation. I have been interested in the accounts of pioneer recreation found in some of the diaries which it has been my privilege to handle. The following excerpts were taken from a diary in which each day's activities were chronicled: "Jan. 1, 1882—-The whole town turned out today to help finish the new school house so we could dance in it tonight. I put in the windows and hung the door." "Jan. G—Storm. We could not hold Sunday School in the new school house today, the roof leaked too bad." 'April 10—Myself and wives attended the last day of school dance. Enjoyed myself well. The new school house is better than dancing in homes as we have done. By just a little crowding we can have three sets. The boys don't wring on so bad. Two wagon loads from M.........-.. Attended." (This was a town seven miles away.) Here certainly is more than meets the eye. How clearly is pictured the small building, as well as though the dimensions were given, with the thatched roof which leaked at the first heavy storm. We may be sure that the merrymakers who came in the wagons seven miles would be until almost morning getting home. Here is another account illustrative of the life in the smaller towns: Later in the fall the brethren got pine logs out of Little Pine Valley and Juanita Brooks of St. George found her great-grandmother's journal at the age of thirteen when she was helping an aunt with the house-cleaning. Tucked away in the back of an old secretary, securely tied around with calico string. The backs were loose, the pages yellow and brittle with age, but the handwriting was still clear and legible. She says, "Forgetting my work, I opened the journal and began to read. The room in which I sat with its whitewashed walls, its rag carpet stretched over a bulging layer of crisp, fresh straw, everything vanished, and I was with the Saints during the stirring days in Nauvoo." Thus she was initiated into a hobby which has become more fascinating with the years. She has had the privilege of reading more than a hundred handwritten originals, collected from homes in all parts of Utah, Arizona and Nevada. Some of them were daily diaries, some were made up of periodic entries, and some were They cover, one or another of them, the whole range of the history of the Church. The part in which Mrs. Brooks is most interested is that dealing with life in Utah, particularly in the smaller settlements. It was journals written from memory late in life. They cover, one or another of them, the whole range of the history of the Church. The part in which Mrs. Brooks is most interested is that dealing with life in Utah, particularly in the smaller settlements. JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hewed them and built a meeting house 18 by 25 feet with a big stone fire place in one end. It was built at the west end of the fort, covered with lumber and dirt and ready for use on the first of Jan. 1868. To get wood to warm the house, they chose up sides. They were to work two hours, and the side that got beat was to furnish supper and a dance for the town.." These are typical of what happened in most of the settlements. Usually they cleared a place in the brush, leveled and dampened it, and danced, first under the open sky, later in a willow bowery, and still later in homes before a public building was finished. 'The music might be an accordion, or perhaps an orchestra composed of a violin with a guitar or organ accompaniment. Many a dance has been held to the music of a harmonica. The important thing was that they did have music of some kind. And the dances! There was the intricate pattern of the quadrille, the grace of the lancers, the dignity of the schottische, the rollicking fun of the reels, the speed of the polka which left everyone perspiring and breathless, along with one or two precious waltzes. 'The dances were conducted in an orderly way. They were opened and closed with prayer; the ladies stayed on one side of the hall and the men on the other, and no one selected his partner until the dance was called, when they would "fill up the floor" either in quadrille formation or promenade by couples. 'This gave the floor manager a chance to check and see that no one was "wringing on”. Each man was given a number and was allowed to dance only when his number was called. Energetic young fellows who wished to dance every time must buy more than one ticket. Among the poorer in the smaller towns. It was not unusual for two boys to alternate during an evening, using one ticket and the same pair of shoes. On the other hand, some of the dances were quite elaborate and formal in the larger centers, as their invitations show. One woman writes: "I have gone to as grand balls in Dixie as there was in Salt Lake City in the '60s, with every article I had on but my shoes spun and made at home. I felt just as well dressed as I ever have in my life. We took pains to make our dresses fine and nice, and have our dresses fit us good." Another from the same period but by a different writer: "Mrs. Pratt, the wife of the apostle, came to the dance for a few minutes. She wore a large crinoline and a dress with a skirt of seven widths of cloth, all gathered around the waist and gave the appearance of a bustle all around. I can never forget the grandeur of it." There were many occasions for holding dances. Regular holidays were always appropriately celebrated: Christmas, May Day, Thanksgiving, the Fourth of July, but perhaps more elaborately than any, the Twentyfourth of July. Often this was the occasion for parades with covered wagon trains attacked by Indians. This account is quite typical: "24 July 1867 celebrated in the new city under a spacious bowery. The people marched and rode to the bowery headed by the brass band. I drove the H...............carriage. After the services of song and speech, tables loaded with the peoples' picnic were surrounded and heartily partaken of. The afternoon was spent in visiting and games." Contests sponsoring some community activity were common: Haul- ing wood for the mecting house, graveling the sidewalks, killing off predatory animals, or cleaning the town canal. This was followed by a town dinner and dance. In addition there were "bees" of many kinds: Spinning bees, carpet-rag bees, quilting bees, and husking bees probably being most commion. The refreshments often consisted of molasses candy and parched corn, or raisins and almonds, although occasionally a supper was served. But whatever they ate, the spirit of cooperation and fun was present. THEY must make their own good times. Here was no commercial entertainment prepared and presented. For this reason, a play put on by local talent was usually a feature during the holiday week, while in some of the larger towns regular theatrical societies were organized and plays presented regularly and the proceeds given to some community enterprise. The late President A. W. Ivins, in a letter to Mrs. Zaidee Miles of St. George, tells how the first play in that town, "The Eaton Boy", was presented in the willow bowery, and his sister Caddie shocked the entire community by taking the part of a boy and appearing on the stage in pants. The records of the St. George Dramatic Company, organized a few years after the town was settled, show that for the presentation of the "Charcoal Burner" the proceeds totaled $51.40, of which $1.50 was cash and the remainder labor, molasses, dried fruit, wheat, etc. Produce was accepted as tickets in most of the early settlements. Several qualities mark the recreational activities of the Mormon pioneers, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY 441 whether in large centers or small. One is their reaching out for culture, their striving to improve their gifts. Along with the strenuous business of wresting a living from the stubborn soil, they did not lose sight of these ideals. This entry, made at St. George, while the city was still a camp of wagons, illustrates this: "Here I may be allowed, with some degree of modest pride, to state that in the large tent furnished by Brother Asa Calkins I was first to give a lecture on English grammar, and had the honor of being one of the first group to take part in singing as a public choir while encamped." How revealing that short item is. What volumes it speaks for the type of people who made up our pioneering ranks, people who, in the midst of sand and sage, would sit in a tent on the ground and listen to a lecture on English grammar. I doubt that a parallel can be found in the settlement of any other state, certainly not in any of the mining towns of our neighbors. Another familiar institution was called the Lyceum, wherein young men trained themselves in matters of speech and information on history and government. The seriousness with which this was taken is shown by this entry from the diary of a man then in his early twenties: "I have had a good time attending mectings this winter. The young men and boys have a Lyceum, which not only learns us to speak in public but have subjects that are instructive.... Very seldom I missed one of my meetings; even when I lived out of town I attended pretty well and went home 7 miles at midnight. I feel the need of trying to learn as I am very bashful and awkward. AA? JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "When I first commenced attending these meetings I used to dread for my turn to come. It seemed almost impossible for me to say anything at all—even if I knew it ever so well." One might go on endlessly, quoting bits of colorful detail, all of which would go to show that the Pioneers were happy, though their surroundings were hard, that they were reaching out for the good and yearning for the beautiful. 'They were gathered from all parts of the earth and brought with them different backgrounds of experience and culture. Bound by common ties of faith, and united in the common enterprise of conquering the desert, they built up a social and community life which was unique. Perhaps the most important factor in this was the fact that the religious leaders were also the leaders in temporal matters and the general directors of the recreation and leisure time activities. They worshiped together; they worked together; they played together, and by so doing were able to succeed in the face of great adversity. IMMORTAL PIONEER By Morris Olsen The sun that watched thy weary trek Has faded in the west; And even from the hand-carved post That marks thy place of rest, Time has erased the memory Of thy mortal name and deeds; And the little mound where flowers reposed Lies hidden in the weeds. Yet these are naught but symbols, Your sufferings were not in vain, For in the pattern of our lives Your spirit lives again. The trails you hewed through forests dense Where light was dimly shed, Still wind through our life's wilderness And show us where to tread. Sweets for the Persistent By Mabel Harmer HE State of Utah now boasts sugar factories with an enormous annual output and a payroll of many millions, but the story of the early attempts and struggles of the Pioneers to manufacture sugar, or anything resembling that greatly desired product, is a story of years of heartbreaking struggle. When the first settlers of the State wanted to raise wheat, they broke a few plows in the inhospitable ground, learned to soften it with water, and the worst of their struggles was over. 'The process of manufacturing cloth, from shearing the sheep to weaving on hand looms, was a lengthy one but not especially puzzling. The matter of sugar, however, was one that taxed the ingenuity and resources of the Pioneers to the utmost. They knew sugar to be almost a necessity from the standpoint of health besides being almost indispensable for the making of palatable foods, but where or how to get it remained one of their most difficult problems for almost two score years. Sugar brought in by ox team from the states cost over a dollar a pound, which made it all but prohibitive as a commodity for folk who seldom saw a dollar and couldn't very well afford to spend it for sugar when they did see it. Consequently they had to turn to every means within their power to make substitutes for sugar, hoping that some day they would learn how to manufacture the genuine article, which, after a series of heartbreaking attempts, they eventually accomplished. During the second summer in the valley, nearly everyone had a garden and some of nearly everything in those gardens was boiled down in an attempt to get "sweetening." Among the various agricultural products that were boiled down to make a crude sort of molasses or sorghum were beets, squash, carrots, cornstalks and melons. The product obtained served fairly well for some purposes but, naturally, could not take the place of sugar for culinary purposes or for table use. Nevertheless, the Pioneers accepted the results cheerfully until they could get something better. After three or four years of strictly home manufacture the art of molasses making was taken into factories, three being established for the purpose in 1851. Among those early manufacturers were Joseph Young, Burr Frost and William Freely, who advertised concerning their undertaking as follows: "Beet this who can! 'The undersigned would give notice to the citizens of Deseret that they are manufacturing molasses from the beet at Burr Frost's on Emigration street, one and a half blocks east of City Creek bridge. To all who have a surplus of beets, carrots or parsnips and will bring them to our molasses factory, well cleaned as for family use, we will make from them all the molasses we can and return the owners of the vegetables one-half of the molasses made. Those who are in want of sweetening and are disposed to encourage domestic manufacture will do well to call soon, as the earlier the vegetables are used, the better." The dark, gummy substance that AAA JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was the result of this enterprise was so far from being satisfactory that efforts to manufacture sugar went on persistently. John Taylor, who was a leader in the search for sweets, attempted to make sugar out of corn. He put together a sort of crude apparatus to squeeze the corn stalk, made a boiler out of some stove piping and lumber, but he was forced to concede that the manufacture was not altogether a success. Early settlers down in Dixie during the early '6os learned that their warm climate would mature the Chinese sugar cane from which they produced a molasses that was superior to any made in the northern part of the territory. They found also, that by boiling it down to the limit they could obtain a sugar residue that would serve for some table purposes. Enterprising settlers in Box Elder and Provo also clutched at "sweet straws" in the hopes of obtaining something that could be converted into sugar. In the case of the former, the straws were the small box elder trees that grew in the vicinity, from which a sap was run off that produced a "specimen of beautifully clear and remarkably sweet and 'pleasant flavored syrup". A man who was familiar with the process of making sugar from the maple sap put forth his best efforts to get the same results from the box elder sap, but in the end had to be content with obtaining a fairly good confection. During one spring a sweet, sticky sap appeared on the leaves and twigs of trees in the city of Provo. The townspeople gathered the twigs, soaked them in water and boiled the sap thus obtained first to the syrup stage and then to sugar. It was said to have some resemblance to maple sugar, but the twigs and leaves had imparted a bitter taste and when a sample was sent to Brigham Young it is reported to have been received with no great enthusiasm. The Pioneers soon learned that the white sugar beet was the best source of molasses, and consequently the emigrants were urged to bring to Utah all the seed obtainable, which each family could plant with a view to making its own syrup and sugar. HE largest of the early molasses factories was that built in '51 by S. M. Blair of Texas and a Mr. Beach of St! Louis. The Mormon Church leaders were loud in their praises of this great enterprise but expressed the belief that it would not be possible for them to supply all the sweet that was needed in the community, and that if some expert manufacturers of sugar would appear upon the scene the citizens would be only too glad to surrender their efforts at home manufacture in their favor. They also expressed the wish that the presidents of the foreign missions would bend their efforts toward searching out such expert manufacturers and send them, together with the necessary equipment, to the Territory of Deseret. John Taylor, who was in charge of the French Mission at the time, acted upon this suggestion and organized the Deseret Manufacturing Company with a capital of $60,000. He purchased machinery and apparatus for the manufacture of sugar in Liverpool, at a cost of $12,500, had it shipped by boat to New Orleans where the U. S. Tax duties added another $5000 to the costly enterprise. From New Orleans the machinery was shipped up the river to Fort Leavenworth where it was loaded onto wagons and hauled by more than 200 ox teams over the plains to Salt Lake City at a labor and money cost that can only be imagined. For some unknown reason, the machinery was hauled on to Provo where in '52 the plant was assembled. Only now was the heartbreaking discovery made that the all important bone-cooking, sugar-clarifying retorts had not been shipped with the rest of the machinery. The promoters threw up their hands in despair upon learning that they had spent a fortune with no chance at making any immediate returns; but the Church authorities, having encouraged the enterprise, came to the rescue and bought the dubious assets of the Deseret Manufacturing Company. Later on the plant was moved to Sugar House—or what then became Sugar House—and an attempt was made to manufacture sugar. The attempt resulted only in more molasses and not too good a grade, at that. In fact, it was reported by some to be so sharp in flavor that "it would take the end of your tongue off". Brigham Young still had great hopes that the much needed sugar would soon be successfully manufactured, and at the spring conference in '53 he urged that the Saints generously plant sugar beets. In October of the same year a newspaper item made the statement, "We know that some were disappointed last fall in not getting sugar, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 445 and some in getting poor molasses. But brethren, don't get discouraged; we have different workmen this year, and if we cannot give you sugar as you desire, no effort shall be wanting to give you good molasses. Bring your beets and try. Now is the time, at the old place before cold weather." It is hard indeed to record that these valiant efforts went for nothing and that after a sugar beet crop failure in '55 the venture was reluctantly given up. The pioneers of Utah were not the only ones, however, to experiment unsuccessfully with the manufacture of sugar. Between the years of 1838 and 1879 fourteen small sugar factories in states reaching from Maine to California went down to defeat in somewhat the same fashion, although none had gone to the tremendous amount of work to obtain machinery that the Mormon pioneers had done. Finally, in 1870 a Mr. Dyer erected a factory in California which by 79 was established on a profitable basis. By 1890 after more research and study two more factories were established in California. Others followed in '91 in Nebraska, and the same year the first successfully operated sugar factory in the Intermountain West began operations at Lehi, Utah, just forty years after the Pioneers had begun their persistent efforts to obtain sugar from the. White beets. The raising of sugar beets and the manufacture of sugar ranks today as one of the State's great industries with a total of fourteen factories and an annual payroll of millions of dollars. Hoops For Amanda By Martha Robeson Wright AMANDA STOPHER sat on the rough backless stool caressing the shimmering maroon silk that lay heaped before her on the crude table. She did not need a new dress for the party; her wedding gown would do. But Aunt Annie in New York had sent by Josiah Meddlebury, who had just come in from a hard trip across the plains, this belated wedding present, this mound of silk, glistening garnet in the early autumn sunshine that poured through the open door and the small square hole in the east wall which served as a window. Just having the goods would have made the longing to sew begin tugging at Amanda's fingers. But there had been included in the package a new magazine called Harper's that showed the latest fashions. Amanda's mother had always cut the patterns for her clothes, but it was high time Amanda tried it herself. Her grandmother's sewing chest that had been given her for a wedding present had the top tray filled with notions, even three precious needles and a silver thimble that was older than the chest; but she knew it would be necessary to. Ravel some of the silk to get thread to match. Amanda's hands gently patted the beautiful fabric. 'They had never had anything like this, even in Nauvoo, where her father had owned a fine brick house right near the Prophet's and they had good furniture and lots of books which they had brought with them from Tennessee. In Brown's Fort, or Ogden as it was now Called, dresses had to last a long time because the piece goods was hand loomed after the spinning was done, unless it was sent by your well-to-do relatives who thought your folks plain crazy for leaving comfort and security to come out to a wilderness full of savages and wild animals. The girl gathered the soft material into her arms and went to the round mirror that hung on the wall above a short wash bench. "It does become you," she murmured, holding the goods close to her face. "It makes your hair and eyes look browner and shinier." She tilted her head this way and that like a small bird looking at its reflection in a pool. "I could make it up in three weeks. For your first dance since you and John were married, Mrs. Stopher." Amanda returned the silk to the table and took up the new magazine. She reckoned she could look just as pretty in those hoop skirts as those ladies who smirked at her from its pages. She could get her waist that little, too, with proper stays; it would not be hard to do either, as her waist was not so very big in the first place. It would not be such a chore to fix her hair that way when it was naturally curly. But how could she get the hoops in time for the party? Had she been at home it would have been a simple matter to have mentioned it to her father who would have patted her cheek or pinched her chin and got her hoops from somewhere. But a married woman of sixteen gets her money and clothing from her husband. If he had no money, he bartered things for his family's needs. John would never think of doing any trading for a set of hoops for a woman's dress. Judge Gerard would think it clever and womanly to want such flipperies, but John would never understand. His people had been very poor pioneers who had come across the plains suffering great hardships for want of food and clothing, and while some of them might have longed for luxuries, they would never dream of getting them for this wilderness life. Of course, she was lucky in having a father better fixed than most of the settlers, one who had tools and supplies and read the law; but she was married and had to abide by her husband's ideas. AMANDA liked being married to John, but it was sort of a comedown to be living in the old granary, especially when Mary Anne Davison made slighting remarks. Mary Anne's father was almost as well-to-do as Judge Gerard, and Mary Anne was just the kind who, though she knew they were only living there until next fall, would start something. John was going to build their cabin the next fall, and he was proud of living in the granary because it meant he did not need help. John had been like that when he had asked Amanda's father for permission to marry her. She had wanted to go with him into the small office in front of their home, but John said he did not need a woman's support. Listening outside the lightly closed door, she had heard her father say, "You're a fine boy, John. Got good blood in you. If Amanda loves you I reckon you have my blessing. But I thought it was Mary Anne you were sweet on." "No, sir. I went dancing some RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 447 with Mary Anne, but Amanda—well —she's like a young deer, her head held high and her soft eyes." How beautiful John could talk sometimes. Amanda's listening heart swelled with pride and love. "She's young, John. We've kinda petted her some, bein' she's the baby, but she's sweet and a good girl. She's inclined to be flighty and headstrong sometimes like women will, but she'll settle down if you keep a loose rein on her at first till she gets used to things. How about me building you a house near us here?" "No, sir, thank you." Amanda could almost see John standing proud and straight as an Indian— maybe flinging back that long lock of fair hair away from his eyes with a backward flick of his head. "You see the folks have an old granary near my fields, not so far from Rader's store. It's stout and warm, and I'll cut a winda in the east wall and build a good chimney. I aim to build my own cabin next year after the crops get done." "You seem to know what you want to do, my boy," Judge Gerard said. "I admire your spirit, and you'll make Mandy a good husband." Amanda brought her mind back to her present surroundings and glanced about the granary where she now lived with John. He had built a good-drawing fireplace where now a kettle hung, its contents bubbling and simmering. On the rock hearth stood an iron spider on which Amanda did all her other cooking. Against the north wall was built a crude cupboard, while beside the west wall stood her spool bed that her mother had insisted she take; it had been brought all the way from Tennessee along with the round mirror that JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hung above the wash bench. The two crude stools and the rough table completed furnishings of the log hut. It was snug and warm as John had said, and someday John would get her a stove like her folks had owned in Missouri. "If I can get those hoops I'll show Mary Anne." Amanda took a wooden spoon and stirred the stew, then added a bit of water with a gourd dipper. "I'll go ask Mr. Rader about them. He might get some from the freight wagons coming through Salt Lake soon. Mr. Rader said he was going to Salt Lake the next day, and would try to make a deal. "But don't tell anybody," pleaded Amanda, "I want to be the first to wear them. How much do you think they'll cost?". "I should jedge about five dollars." The room seemed to spin around her. Five dollars! She could never get that much money. But she had come into the store and told Mr. Rader she wanted the hoops and hadn't asked the price first, so she could not back out now. "You go ahead and sec if you can get them, please," she said hurriedly. HEN she reached home again Amanda once more sat on the little stool and studied the pictures in the magazine. Even if she didn't get the hoops, the dress would stand out nicely if she made it right full and wore her petticoats. If Mr. Rader was able to get the hoops and she did not take them he would probably sell them to Mary Anne, and then Mary Anne's nose would go a little farther into the air. Amanda glanced at the sun. John would soon be home for dinner. She went to the cupboard and took out a tablecloth, knives and forks. That was one thing she was glad she had— two nice tablecloths to make them remember their manners. The two plates, cups, and slices of bread. And butter were on the table when John came in. "Well, who's this in my house? Haven't I seen you somewhere before?" John looked at her with assumed surprise, as he always did; and Amanda giggled and replied, as she always did, "Your face does look familiar, sir." She dropped him a curtsy. "Mandy, Mandy!" He gathered her in his arms. "John," Amanda began, as John released her, "Josiah Meddlebury stopped here and left me some goods. It's from Aunt Annie in New York for a wedding present to me." She carefully lifted the silk out of the chest where she had placed it before setting the table. John fingered the edge of it with his rough fingers. "It surely is fine," he said slowly. "Won't it be beautiful for the dance? I can make it up in three weeks." "You got your wedding dress." "Oh, no," she said hastily, "it would spoil it to wear it to anything but a wedding." He looked down at her. "You mean you're savin' it for your next husband?" "Oh, John, don't tease me. You know what I mean. It was Mother's wedding dress, too, and I want it saved for special things. This goods will be wonderful made up, and it was given to me." "A thrifty wife," John laughed and swung her into the air. Maybe she was spoiled, as her grandmother had often told her, but was it so awful to be selfish enough to want to make your husband proud of you? John would be proud, too. He might not say so, but his head would be helda little straighter as he walked into the dance beside her in the billowed skirts that would gently sway. Mary Anne with her critical airs would be so envious. Amanda sewed during every spare minute. She was not worried about getting the hoops. She had always had what she wanted, and something would turn up. Eagerly she measured her small waist after she had fixed the stays. Eighteen inches! She would have the smallest waist at the party, and the hoops would make it look smaller yet. 'WO days before the dance John came in with a five gallon keg of molasses which he set in the east corner. "Your father gave me this." John was pleased, for sweets were very scarce and needful. Judge Gerard had made the molasses and given John part of it. "More'n we could use at once so I told Carl Jenson he could have a couple of gallons for helping me with the corn. His folks've had no sweets for weeks." "They'll like this." "Have I seen you somewhere before?" John asked and kissed _ her. She gave him a squeeze and giggled, "Your face looks familiar, sir." '"How's the dress? Done?" "You'll see it the day of the dance, and you'll get a surprise." "Got to get back, Mandy. Want to get through 'fore sundown. Pesky RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 449 Indians been stealing corn again. Keep the door shut." John had just gone when Mr. Rader sent his son Willie over to tell her that he'd returned from his trip and had the hoops. "Tell your father I'll be over tomorrow, Willie." That night she lay beside John wondering what to do. He slept soundly, but her eyes would not close. If she only knew of some way to make John understand how much those hoops meant to her. But he wouldn't see the need of trading good corn, wheat or vegetables for hoops. Then she thought of the keg of molasses standing in the corner. Her father would not have given it to John if she was not his wife. Why couldn't she take half the molasses to Mr. Rader to pay for the hoops? Father had more molasses, and he always gave her what she asked for, so he would think nothing of it. The next morning John was out earlier than usual, for Carl was helping him finish up in time to rest a little before the dance. As soon as he was gone, Amanda rushed over to Mr. Rader's who stood smiling and cheerful beside the counter. "You want to buy some molasses?" she asked, breathless from her hurried walk. His eyes peered at her through his spectacles. '""Wal, I might. Your father bein' the only one makin' it you must have some o'his'n." "He gave me more than we need. I can sell you half—for the hoops. You can make a good profit." Mr. Rader nodded his head solemnly though his eyes twinkled. "If I didn't hev tuh pay too much fer it. Can't stock up too much on produce 450 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fer em, an' cash money's as scarce as sweets." "How much could you give me?" "Wall, les see. A dollar a gallon?" A dollar a gallon!" Her half of the keg would amount to only two dollars and a half, not enough to buy the hoops. If she could sell the whole five gallons! Father would give John some more. Mr. Rader saw the hesitancy in her eyes and hurriedly opened the box. "Funny lookin' contraptions, ain't they?" "B-but I—I. Only had two and a half gallons to sell," Amanda explained. "It isn't enough." Mr. Rader's face fell. "I'd hafta get five dollars fer 'em. An' then I| ain't makin' a mite o' profit, jest accomodatin' yuh. Got somethin' else?" The whole keg would make the five dollars! John could pay Carl with something else, and her father would give them more molasses. Mr. Rader's smile was beginning to look set. If she didn't take the hoops after all the trouble he had gone to, she knew the community would soon know about it. "W-would you take all the five gallons for the hoops?" she asked. Mr. Rader rubbed his hands together and chuckled, "Yup, I'll get Willie tu take the hoops over fer yuh, and he can bring back the molasses." T HOME she shoved the box under the bed. She would put on the new dress before John got home. If she looked pretty he wouldn't think about the molasses, and even if he did he would be in better humor. Because there was to be a big supper given at the dance she and John wouldn't eat very much before they went. She straightened the house, slid the shutter across the window and bolted the door before she took her bath before the fire. She wet her hair jet enough to set the curls. After the hoops were adjusted she slipped the dress over her head. Her hair was dressed with waves on each side of the center part and curls hanging to her shoulders in the back but pinned up by her ears on the sides. She was glad she had the mirror even if it only showed her from the waist up, though she could get a glimpse of where the hoops began to swell around her hips. She looked pretty in maroon. Amanda looked down at her feet. They seemed almost as small as the ones in the magazine. 'hen she remembered to take John's suit from the chest and hang it on a peg to get the wrinkles out. She hugged the coat. John was coming up the hard clay path. With a final pat to her curls she posed in the center of the room, waiting. John opened the door, and his face lighted as he saw her there, slowly and gracefully turning before him. "My, my, woman, what are you doing here?"; Amanda stopped in front of him and curtsied. John's face assumed that puzzled expression. "Haven't I seen you somewhere before?" "You're face looks familiar, sir,' Amanda replied and kissed him. '"What's under that skirt?" he asked. "Hoops. Like it?" She raised the skirt to show the bottom hoops. "It's the newest style." John grinned and ran rough fingers (Continued on page 503) EMPIRE BUILDERS "This is the place," the leader cried, Standing there on the mountain side, Viewing the shrubs and sand and sage Blowing and swaying to the water's edge. Dreary and bare the desert spread Out from the lake—for ages dead, Hidden by cliff and crag and peak, - "This is the place we came to seek— This is the place". This is the place where deeds are done, This is the place in sage and love and religious fervor are usually faster if the mood contains joy, slower if it contains sorrow. Passive moods
B. Dynamics:
1. Less intense emotion of any kind may be expressed either by extreme loudness or extreme softness. Intense emotions call for medium loudness or medium softness.
2. In songs, the sentence structure partially controls the finer shading. Nouns, pronouns, adjectives, adverbs and verbs are sung louder than conjunctions and prepositions. The most important word of the sentence or phrase is usually sung loudest, preceded by a crescendo and followed by a diminuendo.
3. The accented syllables of a word are sung louder than unaccented ones.
4. The musical phrase usually consists of 4 (sometimes 2) measures, with a point of rest at the end. It should be treated in one or more of the following ways: a. It may be louder in the middle and softer at both ends, or vice versa. b. When the melody goes up, sing louder, when it goes down, softer. c. A very long note should not usually be the same loudness throughout. d. When a phrase or section is repeated, do not do it the same way both times. The words will usually determine which to do.
IV. Projection of the Mood to the Singers: A. A large beat goes with a slow tempo, a small one with a fast tempo.
1. Tempo changes can be indicated by changing both size and speed, either gradually or suddenly. Change of speed alone is not enough.
B. When tempo remains the same, a large beat indicates loudness, a small one softness.
1. Dynamics changes can be indicated by changing the size of the beat, keeping its speed constant.
2. Intensity of any type of emotion can be communicated to the singers by tensing the muscles of the entire body.
C. Attack, Release, Accent, Change in speed - In these, the motions of the left hand parallel those of the right.
D. Think of the emotion to be expressed. This will result in appropriate facial expression, which is the most effective of all means of projecting mood.
E. The left hand is used always for emphasis. When raised, it attracts attention. Therefore, it should be used only when needed, and relaxed at the side the rest of the time. These are uses of the left hand: a. Soft, palm down b. Louder, palm up c. Loudest, doubled fist. Intensity of emotion is expressed by tension in the muscles of the hand and arm. d. Special indications to individual parts, accomplished by pointing at the section involved at the proper time. e. Change in dynamics.
F. Breathing pauses can be indicated by taking a breath in such a way that the singers can do it with you.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 423
IT'S NO SECRET By Anna Prince Redd
A little wind, a little rain, A breath of scented rhapsody half pain, Clouds in ultramarine blue, Buds just swelling, wet with dew, Bird a-tilt upon a limb Joy of life quite bursting him; Things a-tremble with new birth, Pungent odors from the earth, Reviving warmth, the clean washed smell, Oh all the world combines to tell— It's Spring!
424 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON PREVIEW 1939-40
Theology and Testimony MINISTRY OF THE EARLY APOSTLES
The course in Theology for the year 1939-40 is to be a continuation of the New Testament, containing further information about the "Ministry of The Early Apostles," their personalities and lives. We feel sure the lessons will be inspiring and helpful to all those who study them, for great effort has been taken in their preparation; much research and exhaustive reading have been necessary. The lessons on John the Beloved, Matthew the Publican and Paul the Missionary are especially colorful and interesting. Such a course carefully studied will enrich the lives of all who have the privilege of taking it. It forms a foundation for character building, for a better understanding of human relations, and a greater appreciation of everything worth while in life's experience.
Following are the lesson titles:
1. John the Beloved.
2. John the Beloved (Cont'd.).
3. Matthew the Publican.
4. Saul the Pharisee and Persecutor.
5. Saul's Vision and the Changed Life.
6. Paul the Missionary.
7. Paul the Missionary (Cont'd.).
8. Paul the Writer.
9. Paul's Lasting Influence.
Visiting Teacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME
The spiritual messages to be presented by the visiting teachers are taken from the teachings of the Early Apostles. These messages correlate with the Theology lessons and are designed to improve personalities and strengthen both home and church relationships.
The following messages are to be presented:
1. Establishing Goals.
2. Unity.
3. Befitting Speech.
4. Gifts.
5. Manifestations of Love.
6. Giving.
7. Kindness.
8. Unselfishness.
9. Charity Never Faileth.
Work and Business Department The Selection and Preparation of Food for Proper Nutrition
I. Family's Food Supply A. What to eat B. How much to eat C. Why to eat it (food values) D. Preparation to retain food values E. How to provide year's food supply
1. Production of food supply (a) Home gardens, poultry, meat supply (family cow), etc.
2. Purchasing of foods which cannot be produced at home
II. Food Sanitation A. Work shop (kitchen) B. Worker C. Food supply
1. Market
2. At home (a) Milk, vegetables, fruits, meats, etc.
III. Clean Dishes A. Why clean dishes? B. What are clean dishes? C. How to get clean dishes
1. Desirable equipment
2. Desirable methods
IV. Selection and Preparation of Vegetables A. What vegetables to use
1. Green, yellow or leafy
2. Potatoes
3. One other B. Why to use them
4. Food values C. How to prepare them
5. Cooking of the vegetables
6. Salad preparation
V. The Efficient Kitchen for Food Preparation A. Selection and Care of Equipment and Utensils
1. Stove
2. Refrigerator
3. Sink
4. Tables, stools
5. Utensils B. Arrangement
6. Time and effort saving arrangement for preparing and serving of food
7. Best arrangements for cleaning up
8. Storage for staples
9. Storage for perishables
10. Storage for utensils
11. A planning or business center for efficiency
VI. Food Habits and Appetites A. What are good food habits? B. Why have good food habits? C. How to develop good food habits
1. Start early
2. Introduce new foods gradually
3. Emphasize power of example
4. Provide proper environment
5. Use attractive service
VII. Healthful Kitchens for Wholesome Food A. Safe supply of water—running hot and cold water B. Sanitary disposal of kitchen waste C. Light, both day and night—surface finishes, natural light, artificial light D. Heat and ventilation—screening E. Freedom from accident hazards F. Safe and efficient cleaning methods
1. Walls
2. Woodwork
3. Floors
4. Stove
5. Sink
6. Refrigerator
7. Utensils
VIII. Lunches Away From Home A. What comprises a good lunch? B. Why have a good lunch? C. How to prepare a good lunch
IX. Preservation of the Food Supply A. What to preserve
1. Amount to preserve B. Why preserve foods? C. How to preserve foods
2. Storage (a) For winter (b) Short-time storage
3. Drying
4. Canning
5. Freezing
Helpful material and suggestions on each of the lessons will be sent to stake presidents and mission presidents in the United States.
Literary Department THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
The Literary study for 1939-40 is a continuation of "The Advance of the Novel," with the same objectives as stated at the beginning of the course: To trace the novel from its beginning and show the dominant position it holds in the field of literature today; to develop taste and judgment in selecting from the very extensive number of books available; to exercise literary guidance and to help interpret some of the masterpieces of fiction.
The Advance of the English Novel by William Lyon Phelps will still be found a stimulating and delightful reference book. The Story of the World's Literature by John Macy will be used as a reference. This book was purchased by the stakes and wards for use in the 1933-4 Literary course, "Life and Literature". It should have been preserved and will be found very useful in the present course.
Three great novels will be studied and can be obtained at the Deseret Book Store after July 1, 1939: Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc—Mark Twain............$1.75 Les Miserables—Victor Hugo.....1.00 The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse—Blasco Ibanez.....1.00 The Story of the World's Literature—John Macy.........75
Social Service Psychology and Modern Problems
The aim of the Social Service lessons for the coming year is to apply psychology to the problems with which every mature person is faced in an ever changing world today. If we are to conduct ourselves wisely in meeting the rapidly changing daily scene, we need most of all to understand ourselves and each other. The world is a troubled one today, not because we lack control over the forces of nature, but because we do not fully understand ourselves and each other. The course for the coming year is designed to broaden our understanding of human nature and thereby to contribute to happy living.
The following lesson titles indicate the scope of the subject matter to be presented:
1. How Does Propaganda Affect Me?
2. Psychology of Fads, Crazes, and Fashions.
3. How Shall I Conduct Myself in an Age of Automobiles?
4. Psychology of Resisting Sales Pressure.
5. How to Sell the Gospel.
6. Psychology of Personal Efficiency.
7. Superstition or Reason—Which Shall I Follow?
8. Psychology of Happy Living.
No Social Service lesson or lesson in Family Relationships is planned for December.
Mission Lessons L. D. S. Church History (To be used on Literary day)
This is a course in the history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It does not aim to include the teachings or doctrines of the Church, except incidentally, as they are associated with the historical events. Before an idea can properly be understood, something must be known of the conditions under which it was received, something about the person or persons to whom it was given, and something about the way it was developed and applied in human life. It is the purpose of the present course to give these preliminary matters. Most of this material is in the form of narrative, incident, story, and is for this reason exceedingly interesting and understandable. In association with this history are some poems and songs composed under the spirit of the Restored Gospel. It is hoped that these will add to both the information and the enjoyment of those who take this course. The poems may be memorized, discussed in the class, and the songs sung, as the teacher may see fit. In every case, however, they grew out of the situation treated in the lesson in which they appear.
There can be no question as to the importance of such a course. The revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith were intended for those who live in this Dispensation, just as the Bible was intended for the Christian and the pre-Christian Dispensation and the Book of Mormon for the peoples who lived on the American continents anciently. Joseph Smith is pre-eminently our prophet, and he is so in exactly the same sense that Isaiah was an Hebraic prophet, Alma the Elder a prophet to the Nephites, and Mahonri the prophet of the Jaredites. Since this is so, it should follow that nothing can be of greater importance to our generation than to know how God has manifested himself to us in this age of the world. As God adapted his revelations to the Hebrews and to the peoples of the Book of Mormon, so he has adapted his revelations to us. And the following lessons are the history of how that was done:
1. The First Vision.
2. Cumorah and the Book.
3. The Ancient Plates.
4. Our Book of Mormon.
5. Witnesses.
6. Organization of the Church.
7. Early Growth of the Church.
8. The Church Moves West.
9. Events in Missouri.
Education for Family Life FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS
In harmony with the wishes of members of the classes in Education for Family Life as expressed by stake presidents at our recent April Conference, we shall continue our lessons in Family Relationships during the year 1939-40. The theme for the basis of our discussions shall be "My Home is My Refuge". It shall be our aim to make the lessons as practical, as stimulating, and as interesting as possible. In planning the lessons we shall keep in mind particularly the needs of our young parents, those who have more recently assumed the responsibilities of founding a home and of rearing a family. In our discussions we shall consider the family as "a unity of interacting personalities," thus emphasizing the great importance and the high value of the human relationship factor in family life.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 429
The following are the lesson titles:
1. The Importance of Unimportant Things.
2. My Responsibility To My Home Partner.
3. The Family Pocketbook.
4. My Parents Do Not Know Me.
5. The Place of the Father in the Home.
6. Family Strength in Proportion to Family Unity.
7. The Family Council Plan.
8. My Home Is My Refuge.
MY GOAL By Flo Seegmiller Hall
If there's a thing I long for In this old hectic life, It is to keep my soul at peace Through all the toil and strife.
I want the most a happy home Where everyone is glad, Where corn is popped and taffy pulled Whether times be good or bad.
I want to grow old gracefully, To keep alert and gay; To keep the faith and know my God, And not forget to pray.
But most of all I want my walls A perfect haven of rest For him who works so hard to earn The things with which we're blest.
I want his steps to quicken When he starts home at night, His thoughts to be of loved ones, A hearth that's warm and bright.
I want my home to be a place Where sacrifice is known, For it's by aches and tears and pain That we become full grown.
sun Where dreams are dreamed and dreams come true And roses bloom where the sage once grew; Once dreary and brown, now shining and green. Moist and sweet the mountain stream Spreads its waters over the waste Whispering, "Truly, this is the place— This is the place."
This is the place where heart and brain, Striving to build, and not in vain, Nourished the grain and laid the stones, Hewed the logs and builded homes. Out of the waste a city sprung Climbing the ladder rung by rung. Slowly, steadily, not in haste, The people came, for "This is the place— This is the place."
This is the place that faith has won, With labor and love and deeds well done; Nourished by Him who brought them here, They learned to love and not to fear. Building on hope and love of God, Turning and tilling the virgin sod, They built a city the desert to grace, A light to the world, for "This is the place— This is the place." —Zella Jones Landon.
Relief Society Participation in Church Welfare
Again our Father in Heaven has blessed us with bountiful harvests. As one rides through the country, he is impressed with the fact that there is food enough for everyone and that no one should go without the necessary amount and variety of food needed for health. The Pioneers who followed the admonition of their prophet had this security. President Brigham Young's teachings are as applicable today as then:
"This is the greatest wealth we possess—to know how to direct our labors rightly, spending every hour advantageously for the benefit of our wives and children and neighbors."
"It is good policy and economy to sustain each other."
"Never let anything go to waste. Be prudent, save everything, and what you get more than you can take care of yourselves, ask your neighbors to help you conserve."
The season of abundance is here. Now is the time for thoughtful planning for the future. When winter comes, what a feeling of security we would have if each home had its own supply of fruit and vegetables and the storehouses were full for emergencies. But let us not forget that the happy satisfied people will be the ones where the security comes through their own efforts. Every one should have opportunity for this satisfaction.
In the Salt Lake Region plans have been made to assure this as far as possible. The ward presidents and work directors have made a survey covering the following points:
The homes in which help will be needed.
The women from these homes who can work at the canning center. (A woman who has young children with no one responsible to care for them should not leave home to work.)
The homes where there are facilities for home canning.
Based upon this information, the women who need the work will be given first opportunity. If extra help is needed to prevent waste, the Relief Society women will gladly respond. However, it is hoped that the work and supply of food will be so planned that our busy officers will not have to be called upon often.
The women who have the facilities for home canning will be encouraged as far as possible to have members of the family gather surplus fruit and do the canning in the homes. Often there is more fruit at the center than can be cared for and which must be disposed of at once. By knowing the homes where the need is and the facilities for canning much waste will be prevented.
Canning of vegetables should never be done without well tested pressure cookers and under the supervision of experts. A community center might be established in localities where the canning center cannot offer this individual service.
The Uintah Stake had a project last summer—"A vegetable garden for each home". Where a family had not a place for such a garden the land was provided. Help was also given when needed in procuring seeds. In the fall the project was "A vegetable pit for each family". Would it not be well to revive the pioneer way of having home vegetable pits?
Ishbel, Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair By Annie Wells Cannon
On April 22, 1939, Ishbel Marjoriebanks Gordon was laid to rest in the little family cemetery near Haddo House, surrounded by the roses and heather of her beloved Scotland. In the passing of Lady Aberdeen the International Council of Women has lost a great leader, and the women of the world a staunch and loyal friend. Hers was a career of remarkable activity throughout the years of a long life. She knew no boundaries, but her friendliness and good will radiated generously to all who came in contact with her. The Golden Rule, adopted as the symbol of the International Council of Women, was her philosophy of life, and she strove in a religious sense to serve her Maker in work for mankind. Thus, we see her in girlhood a Sunday school teacher; as a young wife, with her devoted husband engaged in educational and settlement work not only among the tenants on their own estates but throughout the rural districts of Scotland; as Vice-Reine of Ireland she founded health associations and helped to build sanitoriums to alleviate the sufferings of the industrial workers in Ireland; as wife of the Governor General of Canada she found many opportunities for her humanitarian activities, and here she founded in 1893 the National Council of Women of Canada.
At the Congress of Women held in Chicago during the Columbian Exposition, Lady Aberdeen was elected president of the International Council of Women, a position she held for a period of thirty-six years. Many Utah women through affiliation with the National Council knew Lady Aberdeen well and had a keen appreciation of her brilliant intellect, her executive ability, and her general worth. Delegates from the Relief Society and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association have attended all the Quinquennials and participated in these great Council sessions since the beginning as they have been held in the great capitals of the different nations. The last three held in Paris, Dubrovnik and Edinburgh were attended by President Louise Y. Robison at Paris, and by Counselor Amy Brown Lyman at Dubrovnik and Edinburgh; they were impressed as always with Lady Aberdeen's dignity and ability though advanced in years. A most notable Council was the one held in 1899 in London, when her late Majesty Queen Victoria received the foreign and colonial delegates at Windsor Castle. At this Quinquennial there was a large delegation of American women, including Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. Stanton, Anna Howard Shaw and other notables. From Utah there were about fifteen delegates, headed by Emmeline B. Wells of the Relief Society and Susa Y. Gates of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association.
454 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LADY ABERDEEN
Lord and Lady Aberdeen in 1915 toured the United States in the interest of their Irish philanthropies. They were hospitably entertained in Utah by the General Board of the Relief Society and a committee from other affiliated organizations. Among the functions was a banquet at the Hotel Utah at which many tributes were paid the titled guests. The decorations were shamrocks and carnations.
Lady Aberdeen's last visit to America was to preside at the Quinquennial held in Washington, D. C. in 1925. There was a large delegation from Utah headed by the late President Clarissa S. Williams. The main theme of this session was World Peace for which Lady Aberdeen had always worked and prayed. Though many were her disappointments, she died with the hope still nearest to her heart. "Faith not Fear" was her watchword when she would quote the Psalm, "I lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help." Peace, through faith and work, is the message she has left to the women of the world.
A Gift of Wings By Alice Morrey Bailey
Sudden apprehension doused Mildred as she admitted Mrs. Spencer, after a somewhat peremptory knocking at the door.
"I'll stand, thank you, and say what I've come to say right out," she replied to Mildred's offer of a chair. Mrs. Spencer was trembling with rage, and red blotches of anger stained her jaws. It needed only Mildred's faint "Why, certainly" to launch her into the tirade she had come to deliver.
"I want you to spank your little girl," she said flatly. Mildred felt anger prickling up the back of her neck and wondered, a little mirthfully, if her "scolding locks" might be rising.
"It's like this. Iris snubbed Dorothy. All the others have been mean to her all along, but at least I thought she had Iris on her side. She gets left out of everything and children say such terrible things to her—things I don't believe they think up themselves. It's what they hear at home, I tell Henry, and for Iris to turn Dorothy down—and you a Relief Society teacher and the Primary president—I think she ought to be spanked."
I certainly shan't spank my child to please others, Mildred thought hotly, and it was on the tip of her tongue to say as much when she noticed that tears were trembling on the other woman's lashes.
"I'll talk to Iris as soon as she comes home and see what the trouble is," she promised instead.
"It's not that I don't appreciate what you've done for me from time to time." The tears were falling now, like rain. "Only she's over there sobbing her little heart out, and I just— Well, I guess I've said enough. I'll go now."
After she had gone Mildred sat weakly in a chair, overwhelmed by alternating emotions of unreasonable anger and pity for Mrs. Spencer. "Spank Iris!" she thought indignantly again and again, only to be amused at her "battling instinct".
When Iris came in she had to steel herself against the flushed sweetness of the child, against the breathless chatter.
"Mother, I wish you'd decide who is to be Goddess of Liberty soon. I feel like I can't stand it. If you weren't the president they might choose me. Wouldn't that be heavenly! Only I like my part so well I'd hate to give that up—just think, the obligato! A goddess ought to be beautiful."
"We'll have to choose her soon, dear. The time is drawing near."
"Oh, I know it. Only twenty-four more days, and she'll have to practice, won't she?"
"Not a great deal. She only has—"
"To sit on the throne with the maids of honor. The bugles, then the prayer by the chaplain, then the flag drill, and then comes America. The curtain draws back, and there she is! It makes me just shiver with happiness."
"We must forget about it just now, Iris. I must speak to you. Did you snub Dorothy today?" asked Mildred, hoping for an explanation that would absolve Iris from blame.
456 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Well, Mother, I—" faltered Iris.
"Did you, Iris?"
"Yes, Mother." Iris hung her head.
"Oh, Iris. Why did you? I thought your heart was kinder than that."
"It is, Mother. Only I don't want to be kind-hearted any more. My friends won't play with Dorothy because her hair is bushy, and she wears funny clothes."
"Well, darling, she must wear what her parents give her. She is sweet and wouldn't hurt anyone."
"I know it. I feel sorry for Dorothy, but now Jo and Anna and Elaine won't play with me because I play with her. I am losing all my friends."
"Friends couldn't be worth keeping if they would desert you for that."
"I know,—only Mother! I don't blame them for not wanting to play with Dorothy. She—she—" as if this were the last straw, "she doesn't bathe often, and she smells!"
"Oh, dear!" said Mildred, nonplused. She thought a long minute but couldn't find it in her heart to blame Iris. It was really the fault of Dorothy's mother. What the children said was true. There was no sense in a mother turning out a child in such ridiculous looking clothing, and unclean. Soap and water were certainly cheap enough. The Spencers weren't the poorest people in town. Look at Mrs. Connor, sewing smart-looking clothes out of hand-me-downs. Mildred sighed.
"Mrs. Spencer came up to see me and was very hurt that you hadn't treated Dorothy right. She said Dorothy was at home crying."
"Oh, poor Dorothy," said Iris, conscience-stricken. "I ought to go tell her I'm sorry, only—"
"That would be lovely, dear. It would make Dorothy happy again."
Iris went, but her feet were reluctant on the path, and Mildred knew she was facing a bitter tomorrow, and the day after. It wasn't fair. It was too much to ask of Iris. Iris was dainty about her person, particular about her apparel. She was very little trouble. Though she was only twelve she sewed on her own buttons, took almost complete care of her hair, and never had to be reminded of her bath. Then to be forced to play with Dorothy—it wasn't right. The more Mildred thought of it the more indignant she became. "Primary president or not, I think I'll just go and give her a piece of my mind." Mrs. Spencer hadn't avoided plain talk. If she was really concerned about the happiness of her child she ought to be grateful for helpful criticism. Mildred took her sweater and started toward the Spencer home. Her thoughts kept time with her feet and hurdled all the time-worn warnings about temper. "I'll certainly tell her—"
But the conversation didn't run right. Mrs. Spencer's face lit up with welcome. "Now, you didn't need to come yourself and apologize. Iris was so sweet about it—and I wish you could have seen them—but it's just like you. It's me that should be going to you for forgiveness, tearing up there like I did. I declare, it's having a Relief Society teacher like you that makes me feel like I ought to get out and do my duty. My mother used to go to Relief Society meeting all the time, but she got her feelings hurt and quit, and I never did start."
She could well use some Relief Society education, thought Mildred, looking about the house, bare of everything except the ugliness of necessity. She cleared her throat. "I—" she began.
"Now you don't need to say a thing," assured Mrs. Spencer. "The whole thing is settled, so far as I'm concerned. Land, don't look at my house. I've been behind with my work all day."
A confessions magazine of the "true" type lay face down on the sewing machine, giving mute testimony to her statement.
"Some folks think there's nothing in the world but keeping a clean house. And clothes!" She sniffed. "It's just like I tell Dorothy. If your friends can't see anything but your clothes they're not worth having."
Settled! So far as Mrs. Spencer was concerned. As if anyone could see anything but those hideous clothes. No help for the situation, either, so long as she took that attitude. There had to be some other way.
"I meant to just tell her," Mildred told Walter that night. "I could kick myself for being so spineless."
"You're nothing of the sort," said Walter. "I love you for it. It wasn't spinelessness, but your usual fine instincts overcoming your impulsiveness. You were speaking for three people—a Primary president, a Relief Society teacher, and Millie Wilson. You'd have driven her farther away, made an enemy of a neighbor, and not have done the little girl any good either. As for sacrificing Iris to her carelessness and poor management, I'm with you there. You'll have to think of something else."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 457
But try as she might, Mildred couldn't. For one thing, she hadn't the time. There was the Fourth of July celebration coming up, with its endless rehearsals on the long June afternoons. This was the first time the program had been turned over to the Primary, and Mildred wanted everything right. She had assumed responsibility for choosing the Goddess of Liberty, the coveted honor among all the girls, hence a most important decision, one subject to much criticism, and one which she hadn't been able to make.
In the flurry of plans for costumes and floats, flag drills and bands, orations and music, she might have forgotten the affair of Iris and Dorothy, except for small things. Once at rehearsal she caught a glimpse of the girls, lately of Iris' crowd, switching their skirts spitefully past her, their plain little noses tilted exaggeratedly in the air. It might have been ludicrous if it weren't so cruel, for Iris turned quickly to hide the sudden tears in her eyes and her trembling mouth. At home Iris was increasingly silent. She didn't complain, but the whole family missed her gayety, and one night Mildred thought she heard sobbing in her room, but when she listened closely there was no sound.
Dorothy followed her over-affectionately about, and Mildred found herself fighting against acute dislike for the child. One evening Iris was washing her hair as Dorothy stood watching her.
"Would you like to do yours?" Mildred asked, and was surprised to see the eagerness that flushed Dorothy's face.
458 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Oh, yes! Iris' hair is so beautiful. We never have much hot water."
She went at it so clumsily that Mildred helped her a little, telling her the best method and the tests for cleanness.
"Mother, what does independence mean?" asked Iris through the looking glass, where she was waving her damp hair.
"It means," said Mildred, wrinkling her brow, "not to be dependent. It means not allowing others to do for you what you can very well do yourself. I think we'd better get the dictionary for the exact meaning. Dorothy, I believe your hair would lie in a beautiful wave. Let me see."
Independence, she thought. The Independence Day celebration, and I still haven't a Goddess of Liberty. As she waved Dorothy's hair she planned, offering and rejecting each name in its turn, as she had done over and over. Elaine, contrary to the implications of her name, was stubby and round as a churn. She'd make a much better Humpty-Dumpty. Jo was to play her bugle; Anne had been May Queen, and Iris, besides being her daughter, in itself an insurmountable obstacle, was in the chorus. So it ran, down the list. The thing had to be decided. It was the twentieth of June, two weeks until the Fourth.
"There," she said, pinning the last curling tendril of Dorothy's hair, which had miraculously turned out to be blond. Dorothy sat motionless, gazing at her reflection in the mirror, her blue eyes dark with excitement.
"Independence," she breathed, and the word sounded like an enchanting secret, newly revealed. "Iris has it. She cares for her own hair, her own bath and stockings and teeth. I can do it, too, can't I, Mrs. Wilson? Maybe I can learn to make myself prettier, and then the girls won't laugh at me, or snub Iris because she plays with me." Her intelligent eyes met Mildred's.
The poor darling, thought Mildred. To think she realizes all this. A wave of affection and pity for the child swept over Mildred. "Out of the mouths of babes—" she thought. Here, like a gift in her lap, lay the solution of all her difficulties.
"Why in the world didn't I think of it before?" she chided herself. "You certainly can have independence. I'll help you."
"Why, Mother," marvelled Iris, "Dorothy is simply beautiful with her hair that way, isn't she?" And indeed she was. The arrangement brought out lines of her forehead and chin that had been entirely unnoticed before, accented the fine eyebrows and her sweet mouth. Her figure, despite the unsightly clothes, gave promise of being straight and tall, but nicely rounded, a fact that had also escaped Mildred's attention until now.
It was five minutes of ten, and Mildred had the wonderful knowledge that everything was in perfect readiness. The parade had gone off without a hitch and had been a beautiful and satisfying sight. Not for ten years had the populace been so completely in evidence for the celebration, and the reason was simple. Every child had a part to play. The first time it had ever been done—all by children. Mildred was as proud as if every child were her own, and her heart pounded as loudly in her ears as the cannon that had roared at intervals since before dawn.
"Who is Goddess of Liberty?" The repeated question ran over the audience, but no one knew the answer. The program began: Jo's bugle, prayer by the chaplain, the flag drill, and then AMERICA, roared by the audience, as the curtain slowly pulled back to disclose her, her hair the color of corn silk beneath the gold crown, her eyes like violets with suppressed excitement, her mouth controlled. Her straight figure, her proud head were the very embodiment of Victory and Liberty, and only Mildred knew how much she was the symbol of Independence. A flag gently unfurled behind Dorothy's head. Mildred choked with emotion. Her heart almost stopped when the song dragged almost to a whisper in the amazement of the audience. Everything depended upon the reaction. Would it be jealousy—envy? Would they laugh or remain silent? Dorothy sensed the tension, the reason for it, and her frightened eyes sought Mildred. Mildred smiled encouragement, though tears pushed her lids. Dorothy caught the message and lifted her chin with confidence. As if by a signal the singing resumed its heartiness. The hurdle was past. What a satisfying child! Mildred caught Iris' glance, and a smile of understanding passed between them.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 459
Mrs. Spencer sat entranced, as if she saw a vision, and was overwhelmed with pride. "Who is it?" a woman near Mildred asked.
"Don't you know? Dorothy Spencer, Mary Spencer's girl. She's a friend of Anne's," said Mrs. Beaumont, in the voice of one who hobnobs with nobility. "A very sweet child. Anne says she got fine marks in school."
"Well, Mrs. Spencer, what do you think of your daughter?" Mildred asked, after the last chorus of the Star Spangled Banner and dismissal, when the air was filled with the noise of whistles and firecrackers.
"Why, she's as good as anybody. I'm so thankful I got her the white slippers and silk underwear she's been after me for. It made me clear sick to think how she might have looked up there if you hadn't fixed her up so pretty. Have you a pattern like that organdy dress of Iris'? I think Dorothy'd look real good in a blue one. I've been making her dresses too long. I never realized before what a difference clothes make. Dorothy has got to be fixed up, and the house, so she can have company. When's the next Relief Society meeting? I want to learn how to make those pillows."
Over by the stage door Dorothy was surrounded by a bevy of admiring girls who touched reverently her crown, her white robes and the silken rings of her hair.
HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon
July—Service to God, country and mankind is the watchword of the good citizen.
Vacation time, and all who can seek change from the routine of everyday life—sightseeing, visiting old friends, back to the old home town—and somewhere among the fishing tackle or the summer clothes there is a book for the anticipated leisure hour. Thanks to the radio and cinema there is a revival of the classics, and out from forgotten shelves come Dickens, Hugo, Dumas and others; then the market offers hundreds of new books.
Queen Elizabeth held the limelight among women when with King George she made the grand tour through their Canadian provinces and to the United States. The Queen's charm, affability and pretty clothes won admiration, but her genuine delight when greeting the beautiful quintuplets won the hearts of all.
Mme. Halina Siennicka of Poland, recently decorated with the Order of the Yugoslavian Crown, made a tour of the United States lecturing on "Polish Women of Today".
Kateri Tekawitha, "The Lily of the Mohawks," an American Indian girl of the 17th century, is being recommended for beatification. A postulator has been appointed to consider her worthiness to be proclaimed a Saint.
Margaret Lamb and Mary Smith, 80, the oldest Utah-Idaho twins, went to the San Francisco Fair where they led the parade of 136 sets of twins and took the grand prize.
Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., friend of Mme. Chiang Kai-Shek, put over an Oriental exhibit in New York to raise funds for Chinese war orphans. Among the articles exhibited was a Buddhist pagoda of white jade and a gold lacquer and mother of pearl teakwood Dragon Throne.
Bertha Greenwald Bamberger, of Utah, died last May. She was widely known and loved for her many charities and civic service.
Jeanette Irvine McMurrin, 85, Bertha Parkinson Larsen, 59, and Lucinda Jackson Parker, 91, three beloved mothers and Relief Society workers, died recently.
May Williams Hartman, 97, and Sarah Neiber O'Driscoll, 90, pioneer mothers and workers in the Relief Society, had great honor shown them on their birthdays last May.
Leona Speyer has been awarded the honor of the Golden Rose by the New England poetry clubs for her recent volume of poetry.
Etta Keun in her book, "I Think Aloud in America," says she believes Americans are the only hope for the survival of Occidental civilization.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - President AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - - - - First Counselor KATE M. BARKER - - - - - - Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD Amy Whipple Evans Emeline Y. Nebeker Rosannah C. Irvine Janet M. Thompson Beatrice F. Stevens Nettie D. Bradford Belle S. Spafford Rae B. Barker Marcia K. Howells Vivian R. McConkie Anna S. Barlow Ida P. Beal Jennie B. Knight Donna Durrant Sorensen Nellie O. Parker Leda T. Jensen
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion
Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Manager - - - - - - - - - -: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XXVI JULY, 1939 No. 7
O—EDITORIAL—O
Our Available Wealth
A local newspaper recently published an interesting item titled "Woman Lives In Poverty But Leaves Two Million." While this woman lived as though in destitute circumstances and obtained advantage of low rates intended only for the poor, she was worth nearly $2,000,000. "This was indicated when her safety deposit boxes were opened. Among deeds to valuable properties and deposit slips for money in American and foreign institutions, there was $125,000 in U. S. Government securities for which the coupons had not been clipped since 1935.
"She had $900,000 in foreign securities and 404,358 francs on deposit in Paris; $25,000 on deposit in the Toledo Trust Company, and parcels of valued Toledo land, examination of her papers indicated.
"It was learned that a Toledo attorney, believing she was poor, had charged her only $8 for legal services recently."
We saner mortals not only pity this woman but wonder at her lack of wisdom in not using her available wealth to secure the good things of life. Having at her command sufficient wealth to satisfy any normal desire, to live in ease and comfort among the rich and well born, we are aghast at her lack of judgment in choosing to live a life of poverty among those who were poor. Such a philosophy of life is almost beyond our understanding.
Yet, the worldly wealth to which this woman had access was paltry compared to the wealth offered to the humblest Latter-day Saint. The Lord has said, "The kingdom is yours and the blessings thereof are yours, and the riches of eternity are yours.
"And he who receiveth all things with thankfulness shall be made glorious; and the things of this earth shall be added unto him, even an hundred fold, yea, more.
"For ye are the church of the Firstborn, and he will take you up in a cloud, and appoint every man his portion.
"And he that is a faithful and wise steward shall inherit all things."
462 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Doctrine and Covenants 78:18-22. The securities listed here are unlike those found in the safety deposit boxes of this unfortunate woman. Here is a promissory note given by the one infallible banker. Here is a promise to pay not $2,000,000 but all the riches of eternity. Are we wisely making use of the wealth available to us, or, like the foolish woman, do we prefer to live impoverished? We clearly see her lack of wisdom and scoff at her. Yet, many Latter-day Saints are neglecting to take advantage of the spiritual wealth freely offered them and are content to live among the spiritually poor. They choose for associates those who are spiritually undernourished. All this woman had to do to benefit from her wealth was to go to the safety deposit box, convert her securities into cash, then buy according to her desires. Latter-day Saints must go to the Scriptures, our safety deposit box of knowledge, then must our knowledge be converted into good acts, and lo! The riches of Eternity are ours.
Wheat Interest
Ward Relief Society presidents are advised that wheat interest checks for this year will be mailed to the bishops. Checks will be made payable to Relief Society presidents, as always, but are mailed to the bishops in order to facilitate the handling of the immense amount of mail in the Presiding Bishop's office. Presidents will kindly contact the bishops. Checks are to be used by the Relief Society as formerly in the interest of maternity and child welfare.
Upon the advice of the First Presidency and the Presiding Bishopric, approximately one-fourth of the wheat fund has been used in buying wheat to be stored for need. The General Presidency of the Relief Society are in perfect harmony with this action. Due to this purchase, wheat interest checks will be smaller this year, as interest will be paid only on the funds remaining with the Presiding Bishopric.
The Relief Society appreciates the generosity of the Presiding Bishopric in paying a 5% interest rate in view of the greatly reduced interest rates being paid by banks and other institutions. However, in all probability the rate will be lower next year.
Wheat interest money has been the means of accomplishing much good in a special field. We commend the Relief Society presidents for their diligence and wisdom in putting this money to use in the past and trust that the same efficiency will characterize its use this year.
The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHAPTER SIX
Miss Brilliant Carey surprised even young Lathrop with her rallying powers. Something, perhaps the excitement of Nell's race against the closing date of the art contest, unlocked the vise that held her speech, and Miss Brill talked again. Slow, studied, her words were, but complete.
Robert, calling daily now, waited until he thought the invalid equal to moderate shock and then launched his idea, full grown, abruptly as an earthquake. They were discussing the picture, of course, and Miss Brill had told him of her own and her father's talent.
"She'll win," she said confidently. "How can she help it, it's in the blood."
This is your opening; go to it, son, she's asked for it, Lathrop thought. He bolstered his nerve and plunged, "You surely can't mean that your talents have anything to do with Nell's, because, of course, she isn't related to you. Where did she come from?"
For one moment Miss Brill was so white the man was frightened at what he had done. Then she pulled herself together heroically.
"She's my own niece," she said defiantly, and did not falter.
Young Lathrop shook his head, but his brown eyes were sympathetic. He liked this old Spartan. "I know she thinks she is," he said gently, "but you really ought to tell me about it. I've ideas about young Nell. It's pretty important to know who she really is."
The color had returned to Miss Brill's cheeks. "You really know something?" she demanded excitedly.
"Yes, I'll admit it, she isn't ours, and you're the very first I've said as much to, but it'll have to come out sometime."
"Exactly," cried Robert, "now you're talking. Who is she?"
Miss Brill subsided wearily. "I haven't the faintest idea," she said. But she did tell him what she knew. She had found the child in the back seat of her car one April evening about dusk. Just after her father, Tom Carey, had died, it was, and she still had a rather fine car. The folks who put the child in that car must have thought they were landing her in a nest well lined with money.
"And you haven't the faintest notion who put her there?" Robert repeated, bitterly disappointed.
"No," the old lady admitted, "and I've always been glad I hadn't. It made her seem more truly mine. But now, when anything might happen—I don't mind saying I'd hate to see Nell tending chicken brooders the rest of her life. She's got more to her than the itch for money."
Young Lathrop sat hunched, chin in hands, "I don't think," he said finally, "that she'll ever tend chicken brooders on Maple Hill, unless she wants to. I've a hunch about our young lady, but I've got to know a few details. You've just got time to whisper them in my big ear before Miss Nell comes in."
Robert Lathrop was of two minds about the bit of sleuthing he had set himself to do. For one thing, Brilliant Carey really did not want Nell's origin established. "She's mine now," she told Rob, "and if you go stirring things up no telling whose girl she'll be. Her people threw her away, and I love her. She's kept me from getting queer as a mad hatter, living alone here."
464 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"But you've no right to keep her from what she was—from what she might be again," Rob explained very kindly, for he was fond of the blunt old lady.
"They've let her be all these years," Miss Brill insisted, "doesn't seem likely she's very important to anyone but me."
"And young Fred. Don't forget the chicken fancier," Rob reminded her drily.
"Hm," said Miss Brill. "Well, go ahead and prowl. As for that Fred, I'd like to know who that woman in breeches with the hungry-looking eyes is that he had in his car when he came down yesterday."
"Now, now, you mustn't draw false conclusions," Rob reproved. Then he explained in detail, just as he had heard it from Nell. The gaunt young woman, a Miss Lola Twillham, was just out of the poultry school at Pullman, had taken the property next to Fred's, and was proceeding to raise chickens according to the latest scientific precepts. She was, he added, very properly chaperoned by her mother. Miss Twillham rode to town with Fred to get supplies and advice. It seemed she needed an astonishing amount of both of them, and she always made it a point to need them most just when Fred was about to call upon Nell.
And here was he, knight-errant Robert Lathrop, driving to Seattle grimly bent on rescuing Nell from the twin distresses of art and Fred. And quite likely the girl would be just perverse enough to refuse to be rescued from either. Well, meddlers never came to much of a good end. Here, he was going too far down Westlake! He turned a corner and threaded a maze of short, diagonal streets until he found the one that would wind him to the very top of Queen Anne Hill.
At the very top an overgrown red sandstone house looked arrogantly down upon its neighbors and had eyes only for the polished expanse of Puget Sound. Robert parked in the drive of the red stone house. Too many laurels, or was it the yews and holly that grew too thickly? The place was gloomy, and a bit unkempt. Sally shouldn't let it go like that when she had the money to keep it up. But then she was away so much, to Shanghai, to Hollywood, to the south of France.
Rob rang the bell of the huge, iron-grilled door. A maid answered it. There had been a massive butler the last time he was here. It really looked as if Sally were economizing. He was shown to the south lookout on the second floor, where the view of the Sound was best. In modern houses this glass-walled room would be the sunroom, but since the nineties the Delavans had called it the lookout. It was furnished with sea glasses, a globe, lovely old wall maps and a barometer. Sally had added chromium furniture, venetian blinds, a huge tank of exotic, wicked-looking tropical fish on a wrought iron stand, and an overhanging canopy of plants trailing from baskets.
Robert found that lovely, bored woman reclining in a large chair, looking as glorified as an angel in her pale blue satin house robe, with the beautiful white hair dramatically outlined by a Chinese red pillow. She was pretending to read. Robert stopped a moment to allow his artist's soul to admire the effect. He knew in a moment the cold, gray eyes, the petulant, selfish mouth of Sally Delavan would override her beauties, and he would dislike them all. Even when Sally was still young, in her late twenties, as he had first known her, that selfish, possessive nature had dominated, crowding the then great beauty, even to his childish eyes.
"An honor, and a rare one," Miss Delavan murmured, and indicated a puffy leather chair beside her without rising.
"You're beautiful as ever and have things as comfortable as a cat licking cream," Robert remarked, sinking into the soft cushions.
Sally gave him a long look from her gray eyes. "Rob," she said huskily, "I'm the most unhappy woman alive."
Rob laughed. "It takes you women with well-feathered nests, good looks and plenty of props to set them off to be really unhappy. You ought to meet a woman I just saw a few hours ago. Bedridden, trying to get along on an income that wouldn't pay your light bill, and yet happy as a spring day planning and plotting to give a young waif her chance in life."
Sally waved a hand to stop him. "Don't be a bore, Rob. If you've come to preach, you may as well leave. I can be preached at in church—and by an expert."
She can't see anything but herself, the man thought angrily. Quietly he said, "Sally, what did you do with Frank's baby girl?"
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 465
Miss Delavan grew slightly rigid and clenched her magazine, but she held herself well under control. "She was sent to mother's cousin," she said finally, flatly. Then she turned angry eyes on Rob. "You knew that! Your own mother helped write the letter asking Martha to take the baby. What are you trying to say?"
"I'm not trying to say anything yet, Sally," Rob answered, undisturbed. "I'm merely asking a question." He would not be side-tracked by her anger. He knew she could turn it on and off like an electric switch. "It just happens that a few months after little Frances had supposedly been sent to Martha, mother met Martha in Los Angeles. She knew nothing of the baby. She had never even received the letter which Aunt Sarah insisted that mother write. What was that letter? A false lead—a red herring?"
Miss Delavan was no longer angry. She needed her wits for something more important. "Are you trying to cast doubt on the character and actions of my mother, who is no longer here to defend herself?" she cried dramatically. "I suppose it didn't occur to you that perhaps Cousin Martha was telling a fib, did it?"
"Nothing at all occurred to me—at the time," Rob replied, grinning, "since I was only about seven. In fact, I shouldn't have remembered it at all if mother had not reminded me of it yesterday when I called in at the house."
466 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Sally glanced at him briefly. "All right, come to the point."
"I will," promised Rob grimly, "and I'll begin at the first, so we'll know where we are at. Seventeen years ago, while you and Aunt Sarah were still stunned by Frank's death in that French hospital, his wife came from France, bringing their baby with her. You resented her. You had been too jealously fond of Frank, too broken up by his wounding in the war, his staying there afterward, to like his wife. So you made her as unwelcome as you could, you and Aunt Sarah. She didn't stand it long. She died, heartbroken, perhaps."
"How pathetic. It happened to be appendicitis," Sally remarked sarcastically.
"Your version makes better melodrama, however."
"Doesn't it," Rob agreed, unshaken, "but then life is often more fantastic than fiction. Anyway, it seemed to increase your gloom that all you had in place of Frank was a baby girl you wouldn't let yourselves love. You and Aunt Sarah had so devoted yourselves to Frank that when he went your whole interest in life went with him."
"Stop that!" Miss Delavan demanded, her face twisting, "you've no right to bring that up. I won't let you."
"I'm sorry, Sally," Rob said, "but I must. If I remember right, Aunt Sarah brooded and moped and wouldn't even see the baby. Then suddenly she called mother to come over, dictated that letter to Martha, and after awhile the baby was gone. What did you do with her?"
Sally Delavan said remotely, "You seem to know so much. Suppose you answer that question. I've always thought Martha had her. I was never interested enough in the child to inquire. I know mother left Martha a considerable sum in her will. I presumed it was for the support of the child."
Deliberately she selected a chocolate from a box that stood open near her and indicated it to Robert. He declined impatiently.
"All right, I will tell you. And you'll be surprised—I hope," he promised in annoyance, Miss Delavan dropped her pose of indifference and became tense. "Well, let's have whatever story you've cooked up," she said sharply. "One night in April—moonlight, by the way—" Rob began promptly, "a large tan sedan was parked in front of the apartments down the street—those opposite the park. Somebody concealed himself in the shrubs of that park until the owner of the car left. Then, with a baby that had been carefully dressed in cheap, new clothes that could not be traced, this person slipped the child onto the seat of the car through an open window." "And where is all this leading?" "But the owner of the car had not been in the apartments at all. When she came out of a house farther down the street, she thought she passed a slight acquaintance, and spoke to her. The woman was moaning and seemed greatly disturbed, so the lady stepped aside and let her go on down the street, thinking she must have been mistaken." "Mistaken about whom?"—sharply. 4 "Sarah Delavan," Rob answered, and heavy silence filled the bright room like thick mist. And then Miss Delavan smiled. She sensed the slight uncertainty in Rob's last words. '"'And of course, it later proved to be someone else," she suggested contemptuously. "I don't know at all what you're driving at. You' seem to have forgotten that mother was your godmother, that she treated you like a son." "T haven't forgotten," Robert answered gravely. "I was very fond of Aunt Sarah. But I think she was not herself when she put Frank's baby out of her life, and she would be the first to wish things cleared up." Sally Delavan said angrily, "So you think mother would like you to brand her a woman who deliberately left her grandchild in a strange car? Who did it to cheat the child out of her inheritance, people would say. I won't have it. You shall not drag mother's name through the mud, just to heap my money in the lap of some silly girl you happen to be in love with. Yes, that's it! Someone you're in love with!" Her voice rose swiftly to a shriek. Robert jumped up and ran to her. "For goodness sake, Sally, control yourself," he implored, trying to grasp her flailing arms to quiet her. "All you've got to do is produce Frances to stop the story!" She was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 467 laughing and crying in wild hysteria now, and a maid ran into the room, armed with smelling salts. "We were just talking—" Rob said helplessly. The maid held the salts beneath the nose of the moaning Sally. She motioned for Rob to go out, and formed the words soundlessly with her lips, "She's all right." She even winked. Rob slid out, thankfully. A large red person was standing in the hall—the cook, evidently, listening to Sally's show. "It's been a long time, sir, since she had one of them spells. I believe she likes 'em," she volunteered. Rob gave her a cold look and went out. So Sally wouldn't hear him! She'd turn on a tantrum every time he'd try to talk to her. He remembered tall tales of her rages, how she'd ruled her entire family with them—all except Frank. She'd been his admiring slave—and hadn't eaten for a week when he enlisted and went to France. Well, no matter how she resented Frances, the child of the French war-time marriage, Rob would see the thing through, though to tell the truth, Miss Brill hadn't supplied him with much of a leg to stand on. (To be continued) —THE supreme moral asset in any man's life is his capacity to be inspired—to be inspired by great books, great music, by love and friendship; to be inspired by great faiths, great hopes, great ideals; to be inspired supremely by the Spirit of God. For so we are lifted, until the things we tried to see and could not we now can see because of the altitude at which we stand, and the things we tried to do and could not we now can do because of the fellowship in which we live." This map of the United States of America has been specially PREPARED BY prepared for the Relief Society Magazine to be used in connection with the Mission lessons. “Latter-day Saint Church History.” These lessons will extend over a three-year period (1939-40, 1940-41 and 1941-42). We therefore suggest that this map be carefully preserved. Mae wi t tion with the Mission lessons, "Latter-day Saint Church History". These lessons will extend over a three-year period BURON BRANC'S "hy, "s. Leland N. Peterson 1939- The Selection of an Adequate Dietary By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe Home Economics Department, University of Utah POSITIVE or radiant health is the goal which all are interested in reaching. Research shows that the great masses of people the world over are approaching this goal, but they still have a long way to go. The strict medical examination of our soldier and sailor boys at the mobilization for the World War revealed startling deviations from a condition of normal physical fitness. Health surveys at this time and immediately following the war also showed that 300,000 babies were dying annually in the United States before reaching one year of age. These findings aroused the concern of the physicians, nutritionists, sanitary engineers and many others who were working in the great field of public health. Active research and general education in preventive medicine, nutrition, child welfare, personal hygiene, physical education, sanitary engineering, and food inspection were conducted by many agencies all over the United States. A definite improvement in the general health with the extension of the average span of life and a marked decrease in infant mortality has resulted. Never before has the general public been so "nutrition conscious". Good nutrition has come to be regarded as perhaps the most important single factor in human wellbeing. Adequate Dietaries The purpose of this article is to suggest ways and means of building adequate dietaries. Many factors enter into the food problem. In the average family there are persons of varying ages. There is the adult father and mother in the prime of life, one of whom may be doing active physical work while the other is engaged in a sedentary occupation. Then we have the baby who requires certain foods adapted to its digestive capacity and its need for materials with which to meet the demands of the most rapidly growing period during its entire life cycle. The normal baby doubles its weight in six months and trebles it in one year. How important it is then to supply the proper building materials in sufficient amounts during this period. All through the rapidly growing period the kind and amount of food requires the most serious consideration. The next group in this average family is composed of children from two to five years and is known as the pre-school age group. These children are not yet ready to sit at the family table and be served the food which is suitable for older children and adults. The food must still be selected to meet the needs of rapid growth and great activity and be adapted to the digestive capacity. This average family will also include school boys and girls whose enormous appetites are proverbial. This age group, six to eighteen years, requires an abundance of wholesome food to meet the growth and activity requirements. Dr. Lafayette Mendel, in his public addresses, always admonished parents not to ridicule the enormous appetites of adolescent boys and girls. Their food requirements, in terms of quantities, are far greater than that of adults under similar conditions. The writer heard Dr. Mendel say at one time that a strong healthy boy or girl between the ages of twelve to eighteen cannot eat too much wholesome food, including quantities of milk, vegetables and fruits, but he said, "Do not permit them to satisfy their appetites with bread, potatoes, meat and desserts alone". 'These are good foods, but they must not crowd out milk, green vegetables and fresh fruits. 'This average family group may also comprise one or more grandparents whose food requirements revert back to childhood— smaller amounts of easily digested foods. Eating is a Social Matter Eating is a social problem. It is not enough to count the calories and build dietaries that will meet the standard requirements for growth and well-being. The present civilization is rushing through life at such a rate that it does not get the social value out of the meal service in the home that it should. Too often little thought is given to the mornin meal. Individually, members of the family come to the kitchen and select food which is ready to serve or can be prepared quickly. Many adults will take no breakfast at all. At luncheon time, the family is scattered. The older children are at RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 471 school, often the father is away at his business, leaving only the mother and the younger children to partake of the noon-day meal. Rural conditions are often much better as far as regularity of meal service is concerned. The evening dinner is very often the one social meal at home. The considerate mother plans a wholesome meal for this occasion. She plans as far as possible a well-balanced menu, cooks the food to please the family palate, to preserve its nutritive value, and serves it in an attractive, orderly manner. It is not, in a well-regulated home, a makeshift meal gotten up on the spur of the moment, but careful planning, ordering, preparation and serving characterize this meal. It should be a happy, peaceful occasion and not a time for discussing family troubles. The dinners to which outside guests are invited should not be the only dinners to be carefully planned and prepared. The Economic Problem Another phase of building adequate dietaries is the question of food costs. Much research has been conducted to determine the cost of adequate dietaries at different income levels. The best available reference is "Diets at Four Levels of Nutritive Content and Cost," Steibeling, H. K. And Ward, M., United States Department of Agriculture, Circular No. 396 These diets have been carefully worked out on the following basis: The "restricted diet" is only an emergency diet and should not be used over a long period of time. It is not an adequate diet but Write to Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. And enclose ten cents. A72 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "represents a good choice of food for its cost"; "the adequate diet at minimum cost" represents a well-balanced adequate diet composed of the cheaper foods, yet wholesome food. This diet includes a large quantity of whole cereals, a limited amount of fresh milk or its equivalent in evaporated or dried milk, a large quantity of potatoes and other root or tuber vegetables as well as dried beans and peas, a rather limited amount of green leafy vegetables except in the growing season when they are inexpensive, a limited amount of fresh fruits and tomatoes except fora short period of the year. This diet depends rather upon dried, canned and storage vegetables (peas and beans) and fruits such as peaches, apricots and prunes and stored apples and SUGGESTED WEEKLY MARKET pears; the cheaper cuts of meat are selected. Such meat is just as nutritious as the more expensive cuts, but it requires greater care in its preparation in order to make it digestible and palatable. The "adequate diet at moderate cost" and the "liberal cost diet" include much less of the cereal foods, potatoes and other root and tuber vegetables, but use fresh milk, green leafy vegetables in much greater quantities throughout the year, also fresh fruits and tomatoes, a wider choice of meats in greater quantities and eggs as desired. Perhaps the most workable guide that the writer can offer is the weekly market order worked out on these four. Cost levels for a family of five: Two adults, three children aged three, five and thirteen years. ORDER AT FOUR LEVELS OF NUTRITIONAL ADEQUACY *Stiebeling and Ward.: Adapted from U. S. D. Of Agr., Cire. 296, 1933. IN the previous articles on nutrition we have learned something concerning the body's need for energy, protein, fat, carbohydrates—starches and sugar, the minerals and vitamins. In order that the reader may RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 473 see that the first diet is deficient in its nutritive requirements and that each of the other three diets provide daily adequate amounts of these nutrients the writer is again quoting: APPROXIMATE NUTRITIVE VALUE PER DAY OF DIETARIES*: Restricted Adequate Adequate Very diet for diet at diet at liberal Unit emergency minimum moderate diet use cost cost quantity quantity quantity = quantity Energy value Cal. 11,132 12,312 12,280 12,096 Calories from protein % 11 13 12 1 Protein gm. 313 400 368 389 Fat gm. 349 470 519 592 Carbohydrate gm. 1,623 1,608 1,515 1,291 Calcium gm. 4.18 6.74 6.49 6.55 Iron gm..0464 0579 0614.0650 Phosphorus gm. 5.97 8.08 7.48 7:65 Vitamin A units 13,705 23,407 25,315 27,988 Vitamin C units 407 565 787 935 *Stiebeling and Ward. Compiled from U. S. D. Of Agr., Circ. 296, 1933. Translating these dietaries into money values it is suggested, when prices are average, that the food dollar be used as follows: DIVISION OF THE FAMILY FOOD DOLLAR* Restricted Adequate Adequate Very diet for diet at diet at liberal emergency minimum moderate diet use cost cost Milk and cheese 25-30C 0-35¢ 25-30C oc (Liberal includes butter and cream) ae ye a, Fruits and vegetables 25-20C 25-20 30-25C 30¢ Lean meat, fish and eggs 10¢ 15C 20-15C 25-30 Bread, flour and cereals 20 15¢ 10€ 15-10¢ including fats, sugars and; accessories Fats, sugars and accessories 20C lsc 15-20C *Stiebeling and Ward. Compiled from U. S. D. Of Agr., Circ. 296, 1933. SOME of the common weaknesses of the American diet, "meat, potatoes, white bread and dessert", are: First, twice as much money is spent for meat as is necessary to insure good nutrition. Meat is a good food but very expensive in terms of its food value. A little meat to flavor: a large quantity of vegetables is a good practice. Second, this type of A74 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE diet is lacking in the necessary protective foods, fresh fruits, vegetables and milk, that supply the mineral salts and vitamins. DAILY FOOD SELECTION GUIDE The following suggestions may be of further help in building balanced dietaries: Milk: Adults: At least one pint either as a beverage or in cooked food; fresh milk or its equivalent in evaporated or dried milk. Children: One pint to 1% pints or 1 quart of fresh milk. Do not let too much milk crowd out the green and colored vegetables. Vegetables: Adults: One serving of green vegetables, raw in salads or cooked; two other vegetables including colored vegetables, carrots or tomatoes, and potatoes two or three times a week. Growing Children: Two vegetables other than potatoes. Include green leafy or colored vegetables, carrots and tomatoes as often as possible. Fruits: Adults: One glass of fruit juice or tomato juice or fresh citrous fruits. Children: One glass fruit juice or tomato juice and two servings of fresh, raw or canned fruits. Whole Grain Cereals: Adults: One serving of cereal or one | serving of whole wheat bread. Children: One serving of cereal and two of whole wheat bread. Meat, Eggs, Cheese: Adults: One serving meat; one serving eggs or cheese. Children: One serving meat; one serving eggs or cheese. Cheese is an excellent protein food and should be used more extensively. Growing children require much more protein food in proportion to their weight than do adults. Cereals should be the dark, whole gtain varieties such as whole cracked wheat, dark farina, oatmeal, or whole pufted cereals. It is an excellent idea to add a small amount of wheat germ to the cereals. EXAMPLES OF WELL-BALANCED DAILY FOOD SELECTION These foods and amounts meet the average requirements for energy, protein, calcium, phosphorus, iron and vitamins A, B, C, G: Infants: Mother's milk or a modified milk formula with supplements such as cod liver oil, orange juice, vegetable jices, vegetable purees, etc. As prescribed by a physician. Child One Year: Class of Foods 1. Cereal grains 2. Milk Fresh liquid. 3. Vegetables Peas, canned or fresh Carrots String beans (All well cooked and strained ) Baked pototo. 4. Fruits Dark farina with added wheat germ. Bread—thoroughly toasted. Orange, pineapple, grapefruit juice. Prunes, apricots, peaches, pears Quantity ½ cup 2 slices 1 1/2 pints—1 quart 2 tablespoons 2 tablespoons 6 tablespoons 1-2 tablespoons (Cooked and strained—Canned fruits may be used. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 475  Butter Butter—fresh. 1 teaspoon Sugar Sugar. 1/2 teaspoon 7. Egg yolk Egg yolk, soft boiled. 1/2 yolk 8. Cod liver oil Cod liver oil. As prescribed by a physician. Pre-school Child: 1. Foods from whole Whole cereals with added wheat germ. 3/4 cup  wheat bread. Crackers, whole wheat. 2 small 2. Milk Milk. 1 1/2pints—carrots, beets, well cooked but not strained. 1/3-1/2 cup Potato baked. 1 medium 4. Fruits Orange, pineapple, grapefruit juices cup All cooked fruits. 1/4- cup Banana. 5. Butter Butter. 2 teaspoons 6. Sugar Sugar, honey, molasses. 1 teaspoon 7. Eggs, cottage Egg, boiled or coddled, or 1 egg cheese, meat. Cottage cheese. School Children: Larger servings of each of the food groups as the children advance in age, leading up to a maximum amount for an active boy, should include all kinds of well-cooked whole cereals with top milk, all kinds of bread rolls, Graham crackers; a quart of milk used as a drink or in cooking; large servings of vegetables, potatoes —2 medium size, cabbage—1 cup or more, cooked or raw; all kinds of cooked vegetables—at least two kinds daily other than potatoes, lettuce—¥%4 head; butter—3-4 tablespoons; bacon—2 slices; sugar, honey, molasses, 3 tablespoons; eggs, cheese, meat—one helping daily, one or two eggs and 2-3 ounces of cheese. Adults: It is a serious mistake for adults Ground lean beef patty, or 1-2 tablespoons 3-4 tablespoons to feel that since they have ceased to grow they do not need to give special consideration to their diet. There would be far fewer sets of false teeth, far fewer cases of digestive disturbances and much less premature aging if adults were well nourished. To maintain health there is never a time in life when adequate nutrition is not an important consideration. The adult needs all the various nutrients that children require but in different amounts. Our quantities of food for energy will vary in terms of our activities, but our needs for adequate protein, mineral salts and vitamins is urgent throughout the entire life cycle. The problem for adults is to select a balanced dietary and to limit the quantities to our needs. Overreaching is a common error, cereal grains in Bread, whole wheat including whole Flour for thickening white sauce. 3. Vegetables 2 Slices 2 teaspoons All mild flavored vegetables: Peas, beans, carrots, beets, well cooked but not strained. FROM THE FIELD By Julia A. F, Lund, General Secretary A Pioneer Mother AT THE approach of July our thoughts turn with gratitude and reverence toward our Pioneers. We live again in memory their fearless devotion to duty, their self-sacrifice and their mighty achievements, the benefits of which we today enjoy. Men and women stood side by side in this great era. We are indebted to Nettie Hunt Rencher for the life story of one of these heroic women, Mary Willie Richards, born May 31, 1850, in Salt Lake City. Her father was captain of the "belated" Willie Handcart Company. One of Mary's earliest recollections was seeing her father upon his return, after suffering greatly from cold and hunger. When Mary was nine years old, the family moved to Mendon, Cache Valley, where her mother became first president of Relief Society. Though the school period was limited to a few months during the year, the little pioneer maid learned many things that enabled her to become a competent wife and mother. Among the household arts she learned to be an expert spinner. At the age of seventeen she married the man of her choice, Joseph Hill Richards. When President Brigham Young called the Saints to settle in Arizona, Brother and Sister Richards were among those to respond. The long journey, covering more than three months, from Cache Valley to Arizona was attended by all the dangers and privations incident to pioneering. The story of these Arizona settlements parallels anything recorded in the building of the West. Only unfailing faith in our Heavenly Father and devotion to the highest ideals could have sustained Sister Richards in the marvelous work she did as a wife, mother, church worker and community builder. Her life sketch is the recital of ingenuity, resourcefulness, courage and determination to surmount all obstacles, coupled with sympathy and tenderness. Her devotion to Relief Society is typical, and her work as a midwife is a record of service unsurpassable. Only through the sustaining spirit of the Gospel could she have lived and accomplished so much. In the words of her biographer, "Service is so much a part of her very life, she must continue it, so she turned to temple work. She has worked in the Salt Lake, Logan, St. George and Mesa Temples." On May 31 Sister Richards reached her ninetieth birthday. What a record of achievement, what a heritage she will leave to her family, what an example of Latter-day Saint womanhood she has set.
Church Institute at Laramie
As an organization of mothers, the Relief Society is very much interested in the Church program of education. It is always a great pleasure and a source of pride to hear of the work of the seminaries, colleges and institutes of religion. Today, more than ever before, the need for religious education is apparent. We are indebted to Alice K. Chase whose husband, Daryl Chase, is Director of the Institute at Laramie, Wyoming, for the Laramie Branch News. This little publication not only carries a most interesting report of the Institute and its excellent work but also gives news of the auxiliary organizations and the fine work they are doing. We congratulate the Relief Society upon its interesting message. We thank Sister Chase for the following beautiful tribute to our visiting teachers, written by her mother, Rinta T. Koford:
"In the first letter of St. Paul to the Corinthians, he said, 'Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not love, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.... And now abideth faith, hope, love, these three; but the greatest of these is love.'
"The truth of Paul's statement was recognized when, on July 28, 1843 there was organized at Nauvoo, Illinois, a group of sixteen women known by the quaint name of the 'Necessity Committee'. Their instructions were that they should 'search out the poor and suffering, call upon the rich for aid, and thus as far as possible, relieve the wants of all'. This simple beginning was the forerunner of an elaborate system of visiting teaching in the Relief Society organization today.
"The responsibilities of those who comprise this group have been increased many times over what they were in the days of the Prophet Joseph. Today they are to carry aid to the suffering and relief to the poor, but are known as teachers—visiting teachers, who come to the door with the same spirit of love advocated by Paul, with the same desire to assist advocated by our early Church leaders, and, in addition, with helpful and educational topics for discussion.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 477
"They come to the home with the spirit of Jesus—love for their fellowmen.
"One of the most significant monuments in America today is that one erected to the unknown soldier. We know that the strength of our armies, and the strength of our nation lie in the lives of the common soldier and the citizen whose name never appears in the paper. The strength of the Latter-day Saint Church consists primarily in the loyalty and sacrifice of men and women who are rarely known outside their own stake and ward. Without the loyal lay-workers our leaders would have no one to lead, and our Church would cease to be Christ's Church.
"There is no corps of workers in the Latter-day Saint Church today more anxious to serve their fellowmen than the Relief Society visiting teachers. No group follows any more closely the advice of our Lord Jesus in doing good to one another than these Latter-day Saint mothers who give of their time, their goods, and their talents to assist the needy and to offer words of instruction to their brothers and sisters in the Gospel. No group in our Church today exemplifies any more clearly the religion described by the Apostle James when he said, 'Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world.'
"And so to these teachers we express our sincere gratitude for their untiring efforts and for the peace, love, and instruction which they bring into our homes.
"May they ever follow in the footsteps of the Master Teacher!"
478 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
RELIEF SOCIETY WARD ORGANIZATION, CHICAGO STAKE
Chicago Stake
The picture is one of the progressive wards of the Chicago Stake, and though young in years the organization has a splendid spirit and has every assurance of a very bright future. From Lois E. Astin, Relief Society Stake President, comes a very fine report of the activities. The teachers' message is in the form of a leaflet carrying the program of lesson work, which is an excellent way of giving this needed information in a city of great distances and scattered membership.
"The Relief Society work here is showing progress. Our Sisters are very much interested in the courses of study. Most of our class leaders all through the stake are very efficient and trained in their special fields of work.
"We are happy to see added interest in the visiting teachers' work. Our Sisters are handicapped in this work because of members being scattered all over the cities, but they are meeting this condition as best they can.
"Sunday, January 8, we had a very successful leadership meeting. The Teachers' Training Class held in connection with M. I. A. Workers and under the direction of Dr. Royal Garff is proving to be very successful. Our ward conferences have been held. All were well planned and a very splendid spirit manifest among the officers and members. Sister Matheson, our stake chorister, is creating interest in Relief Society mothers' choruses. At present we have three very fine choruses organized and working."
Cottonwood Stake
Friday, May 12, 1939, National Hospital Day was appropriately observed by the Cottonwood Maternity Hospital. A short program, followed by a visit through the institution, did honor to the day. Relief Society Stake President, Lyle M. Berry, who is also superintendent of the hospital, presided. Counselor Florence H. Bennion conducted the exercises. President and Sister Heber J. Grant, members of the General Board of Relief Society, former Stake President U. G. Miller, former Relief Society President Sister Amanda N. Bagley and her counselors, were among the distinguished guests present. A brief history of the hospital was given by Secretary Josephina J. Miller, from which the following excerpt is quoted:
"Some time ago Sister Amanda N. Bagley, the first president of the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, was asked: 'Just what was it that prompted a desire in you to establish the Maternity Hospital?' Her reply was: 'Having had two mothers in my neighborhood die during childbirth from conditions which could have been prevented had they received proper care, seeing children left motherless, I longed to do something for mothers to make motherhood safer.'"
Her counselors, Mary S. Cornwall and Rena M. Wheeler, were with Sister Bagley in thought and action. A plan for a hospital, approved by Stake President U. G. Miller, was submitted to President Clarissa S. Williams. The plan was then referred to the First Presidency of the Church and the Presiding Bishopric who purchased property for the hospital site with the understanding that the Relief Society furnish and maintain it. Aid was given the enterprise by the doctors of the community, public-spirited citizens, ward Relief Societies, the stake sewing department, Salt Lake County, and Jordan Stake. December 10, 1924, the hospital was formally opened to the public, at which time Apostle Melvin J. Ballard offered the dedicatory prayer. There have been a number of changes in the Relief Society stake organization since that date, but there has been no interruption in the service rendered by the organization in maintaining a modern hospital. The number of patients has constantly increased as well as the quality of service. Sister Lyle M. Berry, present president of the Cottonwood Stake and superintendent of the hospital, has been purchasing agent from the time of its opening. Up to date there have been 422 patients admitted, with no deaths of mothers directly due to the complications of childbirth. A missionary service of thirteen years without a penny of remuneration has indeed been rendered by devoted stake Relief Society workers.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 479
MY PRAYER
I'm making tiny garments For a baby wee and fair, And with each little stitch I take, I breathe a silent prayer
For patience, and for wisdom, That I may always be Worthy of this sacred trust That God has given me.
—Vera P. Bollschweiler.
MORMON HANDICRAFT Highlights By Nellie O. Parker
"Rhodora, if the sages ask thee why This charm is wasted on the earth and sky Tell them, dear, that if eyes are made for seeing Then beauty is its own excuse for being." —Emerson.
Eyes certainly get a feast when they behold the lovely guest towels available in our Gift shop. Like Rhodora, these towels are so charming in workmanship and color harmony that just to see them is a delight and according to the poet is excuse enough for their existence. Guest towels have their uses, however, and not least among these is the eloquent declaration they make, as they hang in dainty array, of the hostess' thoughtfulness in providing every detail of hospitality. They speak louder than words of her artistic taste and whisper sweet compliments to the friends whom they serve. The gift of a set of guest towels will bring joy to any woman's heart be she prospective bride or matron.
Forming A Fine Tradition
Brother O. G. Reichman of Bonneville Stake Presidency said this stake would always choose a gift from Mormon Handicraft to express its gratitude to those whom it wishes to honor for faithful, loyal service. We commend this stake for its loyalty to our worthy home industry and also for its discriminating taste in choosing such high quality articles for gifts. We wish to express our grateful appreciation.
News From Over The Counter
Last year a visitor from New Jersey purchased some things from Mormon Handicraft. She was so pleased with her purchases and her friends back home admired them so much that she came again this year. She inquired at the Bureau of Information about the location of the Shop. This time she spent thirty dollars with us. Another patron is one who is furnishing a country home near New York City. She bought seventy dollars worth of quilts and other things. Two women from Chicago made substantial purchases. This is just to mention a few of our customers. Everyone is profuse in their praise of the excellence and beauty of workmanship of the articles. Nowhere can finer things be found they say.
Netted and Crocheted Gloves
For the warm summer days these gloves look so cool and airy and are very flattering to sun-tanned hands for either street wear or dress-up occasions. Come and get a pair of these dainty gloves for your summer wardrobe.
Snoods
Snoods are popular and very convenient. They are so easily adjusted over one's hair and will keep one looking trim and smart for any sort
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 481
of outing. They can be had in colors to match any costume. Yes, a path is being made to the door of Mormon Handicraft!
Rules for Submitting Handicraft
Mormon Handicraft has now been operating two years. While it is not yet paying expenses, the General Board feels that its growth in the two years warrants the faith they have in the project that it will eventually be of great service to the women and carry its own operating expenses—rent, heat, light, service, insurance, advertising, gift boxes, paper boxes and all the necessary things for any business.
The two years has been the experimental period. Now we feel that it must be definitely put on a business basis, and we call your attention to the following rules which we are asking the ward presidents to make known to all wishing to participate. These rules will be effective from July 1, 1939.
Membership is $1 per year. The membership year is from January 1 to January 1. If the ward takes out a membership, then any active member of that ward is considered a member without paying individual dues. Those who wish to participate from wards where the ward has not taken a membership, and any woman not an active member of Relief Society, must pay individual dues of $1 per year. The membership fee must be paid before articles are accepted.
No articles will be received unless the ward Work and Business leader, or the owner with the approval of the Work and Business leader, writes to the office, submitting a sample of the work and then receives an order from the Shop. Those members who now have articles in the Shop will be contacted by the Shop as the articles sell, and if more can be used the order will be given, provided the membership dues have been paid. This is the only way in which we can control the number of articles and not be overstocked with certain items. We are now much overstocked with lace doilies, pillow slips and bedspreads.
We are asking the cooperation of the ward presidents and Work and Business leaders as well as all members who wish to send articles to the Shop. Our only desire is to be of service to the women, and with your aid we feel confident we can succeed.
"It is usually not talent, but what we do with our native equipment, that counts."
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
SIR JOSEPH BARNBY (Composer of music for Tennyson's Crossing The Bar)
Of all the lovely verses the poet Tennyson has written perhaps no one verse has been more frequently quoted or has been accorded more popular favor than the one so familiar to all, Crossing The Bar. Today these words are of particular interest to us due to the fact that they have been set to appropriate music. Sir Joseph Barnby, the English composer and organist, was perhaps the first person to compose music for Tennyson's Crossing The Bar. This music is of "survival value," for it has lived through the years to comfort and bless humanity. Quite recently, through the fine cooperation of Dr. Frank W. Asper, this particular music was arranged for women's voices, and at the present time most of our Relief Society Singing Mothers are very familiar with both words and music, and copies of it are to be found in many of our Relief Society music libraries.
Sir Joseph Barnby lived an interesting, active musical life. He was born in York, England, August 12, 1838, the son of Thomas Barnby, the organist. At the age of seven he entered the Royal Academy of Music and also became a member of the choir of York Minster at the same time. At the age of twelve he was appointed choirmaster. In 1854, while a student at the Royal Academy of Music, he was "narrowly defeated" by Arthur Sullivan in the competition for the first Mendelssohn scholarship offered to the school. During the years of 1851 to 1863 he was known as "precentor and choirmaster". The word "precentor" was quite commonly used at that particular time, designating a leader of a choir or a singing director, or probably more specifically a leader of a choir in a cathedral. He was at one time music instructor in Eton College and later head of the Guildhall School of Music in London for many years. From 1871 to 1886 he was organist in St. Ann's School.
"In 1867, Novello, to whom he had been musical advisor since 1861, established Barnby's Choir, which gave oratorio concerts from 1869 to 1872 when it was amalgamated with the choir formed and conducted by Gounod, under the title of the Royal Albert Hall Choral Society, now the Royal Choral Society.
"He was appointed precentor of Eton in 1875, a post of the highest importance in the musical education of the upper classes, and retained this until 1892 when he succeeded Thomas Weist Hill as Principal of the Guildhall School of Music."
Several of his fine compositions, such as King All Glorious, The Lord Is King and his cantata Rebekah, a sacred idyll, as well as several secular choruses and songs won for him many favors both in England and in America, and in 1892 he was knighted. His works include 246 hymn tunes as well as some part songs, among them the popular Sweet and Low. It has been said of him that as a choirmaster he had great gifts and managed to secure a wonderful degree of accuracy.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 1
John The Beloved
Helpful References James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 256, 257, 140, 198, 220, 679. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, consult index under heading of John, and Peter and John. W. M. Mackay, The Men Whom Jesus Made, pp. 57-75. (Harper & Brothers, New York. 1933.) E. F. Scott, The Literature of the New Testament, pp. 230-259. (Columbia University Press, New York. 1932.)
John's Coming Foreseen.—The Book of Mormon makes mention of the Twelve who were to follow the Christ, but special attention is given to the work of John the Beloved. Nephi was permitted to see in vision many events that were to happen far in the future. He wrote of some of them but was forbidden to write the others. His account is as follows:
"And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, saying: Look! And I looked and beheld a man, and he was dressed in a white robe. And the angel said unto me: Behold one of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. Behold, he shall see and write the remainder of these things; yea, and also many things which have been. And he shall also write concerning the end of the world. Wherefore, the things which he shall write are just and true.... And behold, the things which this apostle of the Lamb shall write are many things which thou hast seen; and behold, the remainder shalt thou see. But the things which thou shalt see hereafter thou shalt not write; for the Lord God hath ordained the apostle of the Lamb of God that he should write them... And I, Nephi, heard and bear record, that the name of the apostle of the Lamb was John, according to the word of the angel." (I Ne. 14:18-27)
This statement or prophecy of Nephi's is a marvelous one when we consider that it was given nearly six hundred years before John was born. Theologically it is of great interest because it states that the apostle should "write concerning the end of the world". The Apocalypse or Revelation of John seems to fit this statement better than any other book we know.
John's Early Life.—John was the son of Zebedee and Salome of Bethsaida. It will, of course, be remembered that he was the brother of James. Some writers have pointed out in the case of Peter and Andrew, who were also brothers, that Andrew was far overshadowed by his brother. A similar relation cannot be said to hold between James and John. James was of higher rank in the Presidency of the early Church, but John became by far the more famous of the two. In his youth John probably lived the life of a normal Jewish boy.
484 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Brought up in a good home he was early taught to read the Jewish scriptures. This early training greatly helped him in the acquisition of the spiritual insight for which he later became so famous. Like all Jewish boys, John learned a trade or profession. Inasmuch as his father was a fisherman, it was quite natural that he should take up the same occupation.
John a Disciple of the Baptist.—John it is who gives us the modest account of the circumstances under which the Christ was visited by two disciples of John the Baptist. (See John 1:35-42) Andrew is named as one of the two, and John the Beloved, the writer, is usually assumed to be the other. As indicated in other lessons we should very much like to know how it came about that John, Andrew, and possibly Peter, became disciples of John the Baptist. It is a great tribute to the latter's preaching and personality that men like John and Andrew came all the way from Bethsaida to hear him, and became his disciples. It is not known just how long John was with the Baptist. At any rate we can consider the time he spent with the latter as an effective period of preparation for his apostolic ministry. We must remember that John the Baptist was a great prophet. (See Matt. 11:11) He could not fail to leave a valuable and lasting impression on the man who was destined to be one of Christ's special witnesses.
John the Apostle.—It is scarcely necessary to relate the circumstances under which John became a disciple of the Master and later an apostle. They were essentially the same as in the case of Peter and James. We are more interested, however, in finding out what John did as an apostle. John was one of "the Three" who were to enjoy a peculiar intimacy with Christ. He was with the latter at the raising of the dead and was present at the time of "the Transfiguration" upon the mount. (See Mk. 5:22-43; Matt. 17:1-13) He and Peter were sent to make ready for "the Lord's Supper". He was at Gethsemane with Christ (Matt. 26:36-46) and was the first to recover himself after the latter's arrest. He was present at his Master's trial and was the only apostle who dared follow Him to the cross. It was John who received Christ's charge to care for his mother. (John 19:25-27) It would seem that he was more intimately associated with Christ than any of the apostles because he speaks of himself as "the disciple whom Jesus loved". (See John 13:23) Macartney comments on Christ's affection for John as follows:
"On the side of His human nature Jesus gave full play to His natural affections, but in a way that never excites the anger or the jealousy of the disciples. Peter, James and John enjoyed a peculiar intimacy, and John had a place all to himself. There was something in the youth that attracted Jesus and made easy the exchange of spirit. We think of John as the one who, above all the rest, had deep spiritual insight and a quick and easy apprehension of the mystery of God in Christ. These traits appear in his Gospel and his Epistles; and it may have been because he was the first to catch the meaning of Christ, to understand how He was the eternal Son of God and how He came to give life, that Jesus showed unusual affection for him. We like those who get our meaning quickly, whose thoughts range in the same atmosphere, and who do not, like Philip, need to have every step and every figure explained."
John's spiritual penetration and insight were remarkable, and it is not accident that his Gospel is known as one of the most beautiful writings in the world. As a writer he was peculiarly adapted to deal with spiritual matters.
John and the Fourth Gospel.—The Gospel of John was universally accepted as the work of the apostle, the son of Zebedee, until the beginning of the last century. It was commonly believed that John moved to Asia Minor when over eighty years of age and that he wrote his memoirs of Christ in the City of Ephesus. The testimony of the early church fathers seems to support that view. But today various theories are set forth as to the authorship of the Gospel. We may point out some of them: (1) That John the Beloved is only in a secondary sense the author. According to this view John's teaching was put into literary form by one of his disciples, so that in reality we have the Gospel "according to John," but not by the apostle himself. (2) That the original author was not the Apostle but another individual by the same name, possibly "John the elder," prominent figure in the early church at the beginning of the second century. (3) That the author is not known at all, and the church from the earliest time could only guess at his identity. (4) That the Gospel as we have it at present is the composition of at least two persons, perhaps more.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 485
The trend of modern views of the New Testament may justify us in reviewing in some detail the reasons for believing that John the Revelator was the author of the Fourth Gospel: (1) It was written by an authority of the ancient church whose influence was sufficient to secure for it universal recognition as a genuine gospel. It is not likely that an obscure disciple could have written and obtained such a result. (2) The great historian of the fourth century, Eusebius, who had sources before him not now known to us, accepted the current tradition that John the Beloved was the author. Other eminent writers representing practically all sections of the Christian world support him in his opinion. To this may be added the testimony of the Muratorian fragment.* Such evidence proves that by the last part of the second century the Fourth Gospel was well known and used over much of the Christian world because it was believed to have been written by John the Apostle. Professor H. E. Dana points out that there was a widespread belief that the Apostle John wrote the Gospel. From the Gospel itself (21:24) we read, "This is the disciple which testifieth of these things, and wrote these things: and we know that his testimony is true."
*A mutilated fragment containing a list of New Testament Scriptures. This early list was published by Muratori, at Milan, Italy, in 1740.
486 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The context seems to indicate that "the disciple" referred to was "the disciple whom Jesus loved," who is believed by most students to have been John the Apostle. While these statements in the Gospel do not absolutely prove the apostolic authorship, they do show that the author was an eye witness. (See also 19:35 and 1:14) That this eye witness was a Palestinian Jew seems apparent because of his easy familiarity with Jewish manners and customs, ideas, etc. His knowledge of the geography of Palestine is not of the second-hand variety as the present writer can attest from personal investigation while in the Holy Land. Furthermore, the Gospel has a marked Aramaic style as could be expected if written by John the Apostle.
Latter-day Saints have additional reasons for accepting John the Beloved as the author of the Gospel: First, Doctrine and Covenants 7 definitely points to the Apostle John as "the disciple whom Jesus loved". (John 21:20.) Therefore, John 21:24 would indicate that John the Revelator is the actual author of the Gospel. Furthermore, a careful reading of Doctrine and Covenants 93:6-26 and comparison with John 1:1-34; 14:17 must go far toward convincing our people that the traditional view of the authorship is correct.
Questions and Problems (Deal Only With Those That Time And Circumstances Permit.)
1. Under what circumstances do you suppose John, Andrew and Peter became disciples of John the Baptist?
2. Name all the benefits you can that John, Andrew and Peter may have derived from becoming disciples of John the Baptist.
3. Explain as best you can Matt. 11:11, 14. (See Edwin F. Parry, Joseph Smith's Teachings, 3rd ed., pp. 87-89, 27-35.)
4. Give as good an explanation as you can why John was specially beloved by Christ.
5. What is there in the teaching of the Fourth Gospel that convinces you it was written by the Apostle John?
6. Have some member of the class report upon incidents of interest or specific teachings contained in John's Gospel.
Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No. 1
Establishing Goals
"And Jesus said unto him, No man, having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God."—Luke 9:62.
The ultimate goal of the Latter-day Saint is life eternal, which according to the beloved apostle John (17:3) is, "that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." There are many furrows to be plowed in the field of life before this final goal is reached. Many of these will be watered with tears, some of joy, some of sorrow. The central theme of Latter-day Saint philosophy, that the spirit of man is eternal and that it advances toward its goal through the experiences it undergoes, impels us to seek and value experiences whether they be pleasant or difficult. We do not think of the attainment of our goal in abstract terms; rather we think of it as the daily improvement of habits, the acquiring of new information and outlooks, the acquisition of new skills. We prepare ourselves for eternity to the extent that we succeed in getting along with people, in spreading happiness into the lives of others, and through mutually assisting one another in reaching a higher plane of living, and in complying with the more formal requirements of the Church.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 487
Cognizant of his goal, and understanding the means by which it is attained, the Latter-day Saint is constantly seeking experiences which will enrich and improve his daily life. Faith plays an important role in the attainment of any established goal. As our testimonies become strong, faith is increased and our advancement toward our goal of eternal life more assured. "Do you in all that thou doest acknowledge Him and know that He will direct thy path."
Discussion
1. What is the advantage of establishing goals?
2. How may our daily habits be improved?
3. How may faith be increased? Explain how faith aids in the attainment of established goals.
Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
Lesson 1
"Personal Recollections Of Joan Of Arc"
In resuming the study of the Novel as a type of literature, attention is called to the first lesson in the course, "The Advance of the Novel", found in the July, 1938 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The Novel, as a social register, has become a very definite part and parcel of our existence, and it is necessary to consider the different types and the scope of each, and their place in literature today. One literary critic observes that in history life is presented from observation, in the Novel it is presented from the imagination. History tells what has been done by the human race; the Novel tells of the thoughts and feelings of humanity in what it has accomplished. Every great novelist presents his work with the feeling that it is but a chapter from the larger book of life. The effort in this course, "The
488 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Advance of the Novel," has been to choose those "chapters" which show the Novel at its best and are most strongly representative of the period and race. The great works studied have faithfully sought to observe and portray the spirit of the times and scenes, since it is the spirit which directs the course of events in this world and gives life its meaning.
Turning to the field of American fiction, it is most proper that Mark Twain be considered, for according to John Macy he is "the most original of all our writers and the most deeply and broadly American..... He is the prose laureate of our democracy." William Dean Howells called him "the Lincoln of our literature".
Samuel Langhorne Clemens has made the name he assumed when he began his earliest work as a newspaper reporter to so completely usurp his own name, that it is safe to say that "Mark Twain" is known to more people of all conditions the world over than any other American author of his century. This "pen name" was a term used by the Mississippi River pilots to indicate the depth of water (two fathoms) when throwing the lead.
Mr. Clemens, or Mark Twain, as we shall call him, was born in Hannibal, Missouri, a small town on the west bank of the Mississippi, in 1835. Macy names William Dean Howells, Henry James and Mark Twain as the three American writers of first importance in the generation which came to maturity after the Civil War. Mark Twain was in very deed a son of the Middle-west, which was also part southern. He grew to young manhood in this environment, and spent some time in Nevada and California while the West was still "young." He lived for many years in New England and New York. He traveled all over the world and knew from actual contact all types of men and all ways of life. Quoting from Macy again: "No writer was ever better fitted to interpret the country in which he lived, and no country ever had a writer better equipped to interpret it."
In many characteristics Mark Twain suggests the first great novelist, Daniel Defoe. They were both born newspaper reporters and great pamphleteers. They both said all they had to say, and, masters of style as they were, they knew how to say it. Mark Twain was always in great demand as a lecturer and after-dinner speaker. His magnificent command of language and his knowledge gathered from the whole world, his bitter indignation at wrong, his inimitable skill in using the same intellectual weapon, ridicule, employed by Voltaire and Swift, contributed toward writing Mark Twain's name in indelible characters upon the pages of American literature.
There is a wealth of material on this great author in addition to an excellent autobiography published a few years ago. His books and their characters are like old acquaintances. Great numbers of newspaper articles, Sketches, Innocents Abroad, Following the Equator, A Tramp Abroad, The American Claimant, Puddin' Head Wilson, A Connecticut Yankee at King Arthur's Court, The Prince and the Pauper, Life on the Mississippi, Tom Sawyer, and Huckleberry Finn are only part of his voluminous writings. One critic has said, "His fun may sometimes grow stale, as fashions in humor change, but the serious Mark Twain is a classic as sure of immortality as any prose writer of his age." It is the "serious Mark Twain" we are to study in The Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc. No less a critic than that of The Charles Dudley Warner Library considers this "The most serious, dignified, imaginative work of the author's life, in which he strikes the universal chords of sympathy and pathos and heroic elevation." It is said to have been Mark Twain's own favorite among his works. Perhaps there is no one in modern times who has made a more careful study of Joan of Arc or who is more familiar with Mark Twain than the distinguished American author, Albert Bigelow Paine who has this to say: "Considered from every point of view, The Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc is Mark Twain's supreme literary expression; the loftiest, the most delicate, the most luminous example of his work. The reader will know the true personality of Joan of Arc more truly than ever before, and he will love her, as the author loved her, for the most innocent, the most lovely, the most adorable child the ages have produced."
In type, this work belongs in the historic, romantic novel class, as do Scott's Ivanhoe, The Talisman, and Thackeray's Henry Esmond and its sequel The Virginian. Historic characters and events are closely followed, while the fictitious form and simple style adopted by the author bring the strange drama within our
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 489
understanding and sympathies. The story professes to be a translation from the ancient French of the original unpublished manuscript in the National Archives of France. This was written by the Sieur Louis de Conte, Joan's page and secretary. This treatment by the author, using the first person, establishes the same quality of verisimilitude found in Robinson Crusoe, giving the stamp of reality and sincerity. The supposed author, de Conte, is of noble birth, two years the senior of Joan. He had been taught by his uncle, a priest, to read and write, which was a most unusual accomplishment in those days, but it accounts for his being chosen as Joan's secretary. The story is logically divided into three parts: First, In Domremy—beginning with Joan's early childhood, the scenes of simple country life and the happy association with the children and people of the village. Second, In Court and Camp—follows her through her stormy but marvelously successful career of a year's duration; her audiences with the king, her marches with the army, her entry into Orleans, the crowning of the king. Third, Trial and Martyrdom—the story of her betrayal, her infamous trial, her execution.
At this period, France was still in the throes of feudalism, and from the time of William the Conqueror, who, though King of England, was still Duke of Normandy, England continued to lay claim to parts of France. The time of the appearance of Joan of Arc is near the close of the Hundred Years' War in Europe, and some knowledge of this is necessary to a correct understanding of the relations of the French and English at this time. The war began in the year 1328, when Edward III of England claimed the French crown. Edward and his successors tried to enforce their claims by war, and the English won some important victories which gave them a strong foothold in France. They were aided by the weakness of the French kings and by the bitter civil strife between the two powerful rival French houses, Burgundy and Orleans. Burgundy was an ally of the English. Henry V, one of England's strongest warrior kings, took advantage of this civil strife and forced a most humiliating agreement with the French. He was given Catherine, daughter of the French king, for his wife, was recognized as Regent of France during the life of King Charles VI upon whose death the throne of France was to pass to the King of England. Both kings, Henry V of England and Charles VI of France, died in the year 1422. The Dauphin, afterward Charles VII of France, refused to be bound by the agreement, and claimed the throne of France, so the war dragged on. In the spring of 1428, the English and their allies made a determined effort to capture Orleans, the key to southern France. This is the time when the story of Joan of Arc begins to assume historic interest.
490 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The opening chapter presents a terrible picture of the depths to which France had sunk, and the awful state of affairs in Paris. This was in contrast to the beautiful country around Domremy, where Joan was born January 6, 1412. Her parents were descended from wealthy and ancient stock, but through adverse circumstances had been greatly reduced. They lived the life of simple peasants and shepherds. The youthful Joan was a great favorite with the children, but she was distinguished for her simplicity, her industry, her great reverence for the church and all sacred things. Her patriotism was early inflamed by the fact that her section of France was loyal to its native king. Special attention should be given to the account of the Fairy Tree of Domremy, and the innocent sport of the children, as this was recalled in her infamous trial. Even as a little girl her patriotism for France was equalled only by her deep devotion to her religion. Her compassion for all dumb animals is beautifully portrayed. The rabbits, birds, cats and squirrels were all her pets and unafraid of her. Her tender sympathy for suffering was exquisitely displayed in her conduct toward the beggar to whom she gave her own bowl of porridge. The report of the mad man of the village shows her utter lack of fear and the power of her faith. This episode is most gruesome and dramatic. The war finally penetrated into the peaceful country, and Domremy was pillaged and burned. According to the biographer, "All through her childhood and up to the middle of her fourteenth year, Joan had been the most light-hearted creature and the merriest in the village;... She was everybody's pet.... But now for a whole year and a half she had been mainly grave; not melancholy, but given to thought, abstractions, dreams. She was carrying France upon her heart, and she found the burden not light." She first heard "voices" in the year 1425, but continued her simple domestic life until in 1428 she went with her uncle to the Governor of her province. He sent her home again, but in the first of the year 1429 Joan said good-by to her home and dear ones. It was her birthday—she was seventeen years old.
Suggestions for Discussion
1. Read Chapter 47, "American Fiction," The Story of the World's Literature by John Macy.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 491
2. Shakespeare's Henry V gives a very excellent picture of this time, early 15th century, in England and France. A brief review of this might be given.
3. Read all of Book I in Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc and list the important characters.
4. Give your impressions of Joan as this first part of the story presents her. Note her deep spirituality even in childhood.
5. What is the proper classification of this novel as to type?
Social Service
Lesson 1
Psychology of Fads, Crazes, and Fashions
I. What Are Fads and Crazes Psychologically?
Fads change rapidly and frequently and seldom leave any permanent impression on the habits of a people. They usually consist of some slight change in language, dress or manner. The motivation back of fads is a desire of leaders, or would-be leaders, in friendly relationships to assert that leadership; that is, to attract attention, to be marked off from the rest of the group by some novel difference. Thus, new words are coined or old ones are given a new and vivid usage because it attracts attention to the user. So many changes appear in English usage that someone has called it the "English slanguage". Youths of recent years have made fads of expressions such as "oh, yeah?", "so what?", and "you've got something there". These expressions are usually soon overdone and forgotten, having left little change on our accepted language. The course of most fads is a brief one. They sweep from one group to another in an informal way, being introduced or used by those seeking distinction in the recreational group—the boys' gang, the club, the neighborhood, or the community. But as soon as fads become widespread in the group, they kill themselves as suddenly as they were born. They die because their usage no longer gives distinction or leadership to the users. Aside from the novelty, they serve no purpose.
The term craze does not imply an insane way of doing, but activities which have frenzied social acceptance are called crazes. Fads are of incidental importance in the life of the one who adopts them, but crazes
492 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
take over almost all of a person's spare time. They captivate a person's interests and become preoccupations or obsessions. Crazes do not spread so freely to all classes as do fads; but, like fads, the motivation back of crazes is usually a desire to attract attention. A craze gives a person something novel and interesting to talk about, or it is an activity which will catch the notice of people. A craze "runs itself out," just as a fad does, as soon as it ceases to be novel and to attract attention.
II. A Few Additional Examples of Fads, Crazes, and Fashions.
Fads come and go so quickly that they sometimes spread through only a small part of the population and are quickly forgotten. The radio and movies have greatly speeded up the process by which fads come and go, particularly fads in speech such as slang expressions and "gags". Dress fads are very common, especially among women. During 1937, many new fads arose in women's hats. All sorts of objects from gloves and boots to stuffed birds were worked over into hats. So extreme did the rage become that one person tried the experiment of tying bunches of vegetables or even sink stoppers and chains on the side of the head to see if they would be accepted as hats. (See Life, Dec. 20, 1937, p. 80; see also Dorothy Thompson's reaction to the "hat situation" a year later: Readers Digest, January, 1939, pp. 89, 90.)
Perhaps fads that concern us most vitally are the food and drug fads which sweep the country. We have had vegetarian diets advocated as the "only thing," then there was the fad for gland treatments as panaceas for all human ills. Yeast had its turn as a highly exploited health food. Vitamins and cod liver oil fads also held sway for a longer period but are now being recommended more cautiously. (See Consumers' Research Bulletin, Annual Cumulative Number, Sept., 1938, cols. 195-198.) Obviously, many of these fads are promoted by commercial interests.
Crazes in dances, songs, and games are very common. We from time to time fall into the grip of "catchy" songs which have a brief but violent life. In 1918 it was K-K-K Katy, in 1923 it was Barney Google and Yes, We Have No Bananas. In January of 1936, the Music Goes Round and Round was being accepted with great enthusiasm, but by March 2, 1936 Time magazine reported it was no longer a hit. "Swing" music became a craze in 1936 and still holds considerable popularity in 1939. Other specific dance crazes have been the Charleston, Black Bottom, Big Apple and Lambeth Walk.
In May, 1935, the "send a dime" craze taxed the facilities of the postal service. The idea back of it was to send a dime and a list of names including one's own to a person and to request that he do likewise. Finally, enough dimes would come back to the original names (presumably) to make a huge sum. "Get rich quick" crazes appeal to self-interest in such a manner as to almost always acquire a large following. (See Olson, T., "Brother Can You Share a Dime?" New Republic, May 22, 1935, pp. 43, 44.)
Various marathons, such as walkathons, bicycle endurance races, and dancing marathons are also crazes. In 1928, tree-sitting marathons came; in 1930, dancing marathons; walkathons in 1932; and roller skating marathons in 1936. Even nudism, suicide, and "companionate marriage" have been crazes at one time or another. Bicycle riding became a craze in 1935, when for the first time since 1899 the national production of bicycles exceeded a half a million.
Fashions in dress are so well known we need only mention them. But fashions are also to be found in automobiles, political doctrines, and even in science. The motivation behind fashions is the desire to be marked off from the rank and file of people and to identify oneself with a rather mythical group called "fashionable people". There is usually a desire to attract attention by something new. Fashions change more slowly than fads and crazes because they are less superficial.
A most serious influence fashion may have on us as Latter-day Saints is in the realm of morals. In recent years it has become "fashionable" for both men and women to smoke (of course, it is not fashionable among Latter-day Saints). The use of liquor by men and women has gone through a similar change. The modern newspapers, radio, and movies are making it more difficult for Latter-day Saints to resist this trend of fashion. Whether the fashion of smoking and drinking will crystallize into a custom and remain indefinitely is difficult to predict. So long as it remains a fashion, there is hope that it will "run itself out" by losing its novelty from too common acceptance.
Latter-day Saints should thoroughly understand the subtle influence fashions in the use of liquor and tobacco have upon our attitude toward them. We must guard ourselves against making a sacrifice of ideals for the sake of being fashionable.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 493
III. What Produces Fashion Trends?
How and when fashions will shift is more than anyone can accurately predict. Many attempts have been made to artificially change a trend, but most such attempts have failed. It is true that leaders in fashion have something to do with trends. Before the moving picture industry took firm root, fashions were brought from Paris; but often by the time the pictures were finished fashions had changed. Producers then brought great designers to Hollywood, and it became the fashion center of America. The name "Hollywood" has such prestige that fashions are influenced by the fact alone that they came from there, regardless of their originators. But such a name as Adrian also gives prestige to a creation and may affect fashion trends. However, great fashion centers probably do not create the fashion trends so much as they interpret trends already started and shape them in some ways.
Most fashions originate with the more well-to-do classes. English royalty have great influence on fashion trends. Note some American fashion changes which resulted from the visit of British royalty. When fashions reach the masses, the groups who originate them immediately adopt something different. The five-and-ten-cent jewelry departments have thrived upon the desire of ordinary people to ornament themselves with the appearance of luxury. This fact has perhaps tended to reduce the amount of really "showy" dress and jewelry worn by the more wealthy classes in America during recent years.
494 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Streamlining and other fashion changes in automobiles are made by manufacturers fast enough to make a person who desires to keep up with the styles definitely out of fashion every year or two. Many a new automobile is bought not because the old one is no longer good transportation, but because at first glance it is now a "last year's model," and the neighbor's car makes ours look somewhat out of fashion.
IV. How Should I Concern Myself With the Problem of Fads, Crazes and Fashions?
Fads, crazes and fashions seldom leave much permanent beneficial effect upon a people. However, better esthetic tastes may result from fashions. A person also frequently benefits in his personal contacts with people by keeping up with the times. Prestige often is gained by judiciously following fashion trends. This is particularly so in so-called fashionable society. One cannot maintain his social standing without being alert to fashion. Proper personal appearance should be commended to all, and a reasonable following of style trends within one's own immediate group is necessary for proper grooming. This means, of course, wise planning within one's own means and circumstances, and striking a happy medium between too readily discarding the old and taking up the new. But occasionally "fashion chasing" becomes a mania and results in foolish and unnecessary waste of money. Usefulness is often overlooked in the clamor for style, i. e. wearing stylish but poorly fitted shoes. Other financial needs in the home are sometimes subordinated to the fashion needs. Likewise, certain crazes may become similar to manias which absorb more than their legitimate share of one's time, interest and money. Crazes may afford recreation, but they are seldom suitable hobbies because they are usually so soon thrown aside.
A person who is well adjusted and who therefore has charm and direct influence with his group ordinarily does not need to take up crazes to attract attention or to feel like a leader. However, parents will do well to consider thoughtfully the motivation back of fads, crazes and fashions. These activities are especially appealing to adolescents who feel so keenly the need for being recognized. Faddy clothes, language and gestures are often a necessary part of the "growing up" process and should be interpreted, not in terms of a parent's dislike for the particular things the adolescents like, but in the light of the adolescent needs they satisfy.
It is important for all mature persons to learn to detect the fleeting forms of social behavior as contrasted with those of permanent significance. People who are inclined to follow every new fad or rage do not always take time to become absorbed in those more permanent contributions to culture, such as good literature, fine music, fine art and sound philosophy. There is so much "trash" in radio programs, literature, moving pictures and conversations today that it behooves intelligent people to sift the wheat from the chaff, because we usually haven't time and money enough for both.
Problems for Discussion
1. Show what motivates the appearance of fads, crazes and fashions.
2. Discuss how you think the woman of good taste will be affected by fashion trends.
3. Discuss the problem created for our people by the influence of advertising which makes the use of tobacco and liquor look fashionable. What do the movies have to do with this problem?
4. What part do persons with prestige, such as the "movie colony," have in influencing fashion trends? How do they affect "fashions in morals," such as marriage ideals?
References
General sources, semi-technical:
1. LaPiere, Richard T., Collective
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 495
Behavior, New York: McGraw-Hill, 1938, pp. 185-207.
Concerning foods, drugs and medicine: 2. Fishbein, M., Fads and Quackery in Healing, New York: Covici-Friede, 1932. 3. Mitchell, Helen S., and Cook, Gladys M., Facts, Fads and Frauds in Nutrition, Bul. 342, April, 1937. Free from Massachusetts State College, Amherst, Mass. 4. Morgan, H., "Dietary Delusions, Past and Present." Hygeia, April, 1936, pp. 313-315.
Concerning fashions in clothes: 5. Adrian, "Setting Styles through the Stars," Ladies Home Journal, Feb., 1933, pp. 10-11. 6. Hurlock, E. B., The Psychology of Dress, New York: Ronald, 1929.
Education for Family Life
Family Relationships
Lesson 1
The Family Council Plan
We present as our first topic for discussion in the present series of lessons dealing with family relationships, The Family Council Plan, with the hope that some of our members will become sufficiently interested to adopt it as their pattern for family living. All family life is more or less experimental; therefore, every family who has achieved any degree of success has something of value to contribute to our limited knowledge concerning successful family life. So we suggest that after having given the Family Council Plan a trial over a period of several months an attempt be made to evaluate the experiment on the basis of the primary function of the family, which is the building or molding of personality, and make available to other families our findings that they may profit by our experience.
We understand the Family Council Plan to mean that the family as
496 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
a group shall participate in the solving of family problems, in determining family policies, in sharing family duties and responsibilities, rights and privileges; that each member of the family be given an opportunity to function in the group according to his ability. We shall refer to this type of living as the democratic form of family life.
A marriage that represents a partnership, in the true sense of the word, between a man and a woman who sincerely love each other, is the foundation stone upon which to build a democratic family organization. In such a family the father and mother serve as the accepted leaders, with each child cooperating with the other members of the group so that all are working together toward the realization of a common objective.
A democracy can succeed to the extent that it is composed of people who are trained and who are willing to occupy positions of leadership and responsibility, and who are conscientiously dependable. The family, as the primary social institution, must provide this necessary training for its members so that the nation can depend upon the family as its constant source of supply for adequate leadership. To rear a child in a democratic family environment offers the greatest possibilities for preparing that child to take his place as an active citizen in a democracy. This accomplishment is the responsibility and duty of every family.
Naturally, because of their maturity, experience, and sympathetic understanding, the parents will assume the position of leadership, in which they will have the responsibility of not only encouraging but also of providing opportunity for the development of initiative, of useful participation, and of voluntary cooperation on the part of each child. If such functioning is experienced, the child will cultivate the essential characteristics for life in a democracy. As some of the most important of these characteristics we list the following: The ability to make intelligent choices, resourcefulness, courage, tolerance, a strong sense of justice, a high regard for the proper use of freedom, and the spirit of sportsmanship.
Because the home has lost many of its former functions, because the family tends to do fewer things as a group that call for sharing of duties and services, and because life in the city offers a comparatively limited number of chores to be done around the home, parents must make the most of every opportunity to make use of the services of the child. This means that when the four-year-old girl says, "Mother, I want to help you with the dusting", the mother will not reply, "Oh, you are such a nice little daughter to offer to help Mother, and I know you are a fine little worker, but you run and play and Mother will do the work." Such a reply offers the easiest course of action, but the wiser way would be for the mother to say, "I do need your help, so I shall show you how to dust all the articles that you are tall enough to reach. I shall do the higher ones, and together we can soon have all the dusting finished." This method will take time and patience on the part of the mother, but the value to the child can scarcely be overestimated. To make use of the child builds up self-confidence. Feeling an active part of the family gives him a sense of security; it gives him an opportunity to experience the satisfaction that comes with the realization that he is a contributing member as well as a receiving member of the group. To deny the child the opportunity to share in family activities gives him a feeling of inferiority because he feels useless. Huxley declares the sense of uselessness is the severest shock which the human system can sustain, and that if persistently sustained it results in atrophy of function. Only as the child takes part in the planning of the family's activities and in the solving of the family's problems will he develop the cooperative behavior pattern necessary for good citizenship in a democracy. The Family Council Plan offers this opportunity; it gives to the parents the privilege to suggest and advise without seeming to unjustly override the wishes of the child.
It is impossible to outline in detail a technique for the procedure of the Family Council that would be workable in all families. The most that can be done is to offer some suggestions that have worked out satisfactorily in some families and which may, with little modification and adjustment, prove helpful to others. Before the family adopts the Council method of control there should be a consensus of opinion that such an arrangement is desirable or at least that all members are desirous of giving it a trial. Without the voluntary cooperation of each one the plan cannot work out successfully.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 497
A definite time should be determined when the entire family group can be together for the purpose of discussing affairs of family living. An hour once a week has proved to be the most effective arrangement for most groups. If the meetings are held less frequently it necessitates longer sessions, which is objectionable. The time selected should be when neither the parents nor the children will be too weary or fatigued to take an active part in the discussions. When a regular time has been decided upon, there should be an earnest agreement that each member shall consider the Council meeting the most important engagement for that hour. Some families have found that meal time is the only time when all members of the family can be present; therefore, they discuss their problems at that time. The serious objection to this method is that unpleasant as well as pleasant subjects must be brought up for discussion. Other groups have found Sunday afternoon to be the most feasible time. In considering the plan for adoption it may appear an almost impossible task to find a suitable hour, but in a surprisingly short time it will be looked forward to as one of the most valuable and interesting of all family routine functions and will require little effort to bring the members together.
Preceding the meeting the parents will have anticipated the more important problems to be discussed. At the discretion of the parents they may invite one of the older children to lead the discussion. Many times a problem of such importance will come up that inspiration is
498 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
needed in its solution. As the problem is discussed and the need for inspiration felt, the family should unite in prayer. An attitude of mutual respect, expressed through courtesy and politeness in the interaction between husband and wife, between parents and children, and between child and child, should be a feature of every family gathering. Every suggestion or idea offered, even that from the youngest member, should receive due consideration.
We shall sum up a few of the benefits to be derived from the Family Council Meetings as follows:
1. Tends to inhibit the parents from making too many choices for the child. Permits the child to do his own choosing as far as possible and thus develops discriminating tastes.
2. Cultivates a more intimate personal relationship between parents and children. Brings to the attention of the child the whys and wherefores of his parents' actions and decisions.
3. Prepares the child to meet his own problems by training him to think through and discuss problems of adjustment.
4. Builds up an appreciation of the value of family unity and solidarity. Thus it gives the child a sense of security and the satisfaction that comes from the feeling that he belongs and is an active part of the family; that he is loved and respected by other members. He responds with the attitude of loyalty and affection.
5. Sets up a common objective so that the group as a whole is conscious of a definite aim towards which they are exerting their energies.
The democratic mode of family life establishes the home as a laboratory for family living, thus better preparing the parents and the children to live more fully each succeeding day by putting greater emphasis on the human relationship values.
Questions and Problems
1. Discuss the activities in which your family as a group has participated during the last month. Who assumed the responsibility for the making and carrying out of the plans?
2. Do you believe that all family problems should be discussed by children and parents? If not, what are some of the problems that should be settled by parents only? Which ones by children only, if any?
3. Should the use of the automobile by John, the eldest of four children be a problem for John and his parents to solve or for the entire family? Who should decide how many party frocks eighteen-year-old Mary should have?
4. A family consisting of father, mother, two daughters, ages 10 and 14 years respectively, and two sons, ages 12 and 16 years respectively, live in a five-room house. They have a small lawn and a small flower garden, and they own an automobile. How would you have each child share in the tasks and responsibilities of the family life?
Mission Lessons
L. D. S. CHURCH HISTORY
Lesson 1
The First Vision (To be used in place of Literary Lesson.)
In the year 1820 there lived in Western New York a boy whose name was Joseph Smith. At this time he was not yet fifteen, for he had been born just two days before the Christmas of 1805. That event took place in Sharon, Windsor county, Vermont. His parents were Joseph and Lucy (Mack) Smith. The father's ancestors had come to America from a town near London, in England, and the mother's from Inverness, Scotland. In all, Joseph and Lucy Smith had ten children, of whom one had died in infancy. Their son Joseph was their fourth child and their third son. One of his brothers was named Hyrum, of whom we shall hear a great deal in these lessons.
The Smiths had not always lived in New York. Their home before this was in Vermont, where Joseph, the son, was born. There they owned a farm, but failure of crops through drought for three years in succession had forced them to look for another place to live. In Manchester they bought another farm. This change of homes took place in 1815, when the boy was ten years old. God had thus brought the family to where Joseph's work for Him was to be.
Perhaps it should be said here that Manchester, where the Smith family lived, was not really a town, as one might be led to think. Rather it was a township—that is, a large tract of land on which there are scattered farms with people on them. Like a good many other places in America, it had been named for an English city. About two miles away was the town of Palmyra, with its stores and factories and a printing press, and about twenty miles from there was the town of Rochester, a much larger place. In those days the whole country thereabouts was a great forest, except of course where the "clearings" were, as the towns were called. The Smith farm in Manchester, before the trees and underbrush were cleared away, was in the woods. And so the Smiths had to cut down and burn about one hundred acres of forest before they could put the land to use. This they did, the father and the boys doing their share of the work. For, while the family were poor, as you may have guessed, they were hard workers. They were glad to be on their own land once more, where they could be reasonably independent.
Now, the people in this part of New York State were religious at heart. That is to say, they believed in God, in the Bible, and in another life after this. Most of them belonged to one of the three churches in the place—the Presbyterian, the Baptist, or the Methodist. But sometimes they were careless, like other
500 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
folk elsewhere. Religion did not mean very much to many of them, because they used just words instead of deeds. And so it became necessary, every once in a while, for them to be "revived" in the religious spirit.
The parents of Joseph, while religious and believers in the Bible, never had belonged to any church, although the mother had been baptized. Usually in those days people were "revived" after they had become spiritually dead, in special meetings held for this purpose. A preacher would be brought from another town, and this man would hold "revival meetings," often in the woods. As a rule, the preacher would be one who could arouse the feelings of the people to a high pitch. Generally, too, this would be done by picturing the terrors of a never-ending hell, where sinners would burn eternally without being consumed.
To these "revivals" men and women and children would come from near and far. Sometimes there would be as many as ten thousand persons at the same "revival". They brought with them enough food to last a week or ten days, and during this time they lived in tents and wagons. Under the spell of the preacher they would do very strange things, as we think nowadays. Some fell down in a swoon, others shouted and cried, and many would go to the "mourners' bench" and join the church. When the most of them had been "saved," as they said, everybody went home and joined the church of his choice.
It was such a "revival" as this that took place in Manchester in the spring of 1820. A preacher named Lane was brought to the settlement. In order to make the "revival" as complete as possible, the three churches united in rousing the people to a sense of their sins. It was understood that, when the "revival" was over, the converted might join whatever church they wanted. Members of the Smith family, including the boy Joseph, attended these meetings. Since some of the family had joined the Presbyterian Church, Joseph was greatly troubled as to what he should do. For, after the meetings were over, he believed he ought to become a member of some church. But he did not know which church to join. One church, for instance, asked its converts to be baptized by immersion, while another permitted them to be sprinkled. Joseph saw clearly that both forms could not be right. So he could not make up his mind.
Then, one day, he read the Epistle of James (1:5, 6): "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven of the wind and tossed. Let not such a man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord."
This passage exactly fitted his case. He lacked wisdom, for he did not know what to do. And here was a promise that he should receive—if he had faith. So he went out into the woods not far from his home, where he could be alone. It was a beautiful spring morning. The leaves were out, the air was fresh, and everything was still. We can easily believe how frightened he was. Although he had often prayed in his heart, this was the first time he had ever attempted to pray aloud. For he had determined to use his voice in this prayer.
Kneeling on the soft earth, he began to pour out his thoughts and desires to God. Then something strange happened. Darkness overwhelmed him—literal, thick darkness. Then, too, all of a sudden, he could not speak. An unseen power took hold of him. It was a terrible thing! But he had presence of mind enough to pray in his heart—this time it was that he might be delivered from this wicked power which was trying to destroy him.
Just at the moment when he was about to give up, he saw above him in the sky a brilliant light. At once the evil power left him. Meantime the light continued to come nearer, till it enveloped the tree tops, and he thought they would be set on fire.
"When the light rested upon me," Joseph tells us, "I saw two personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description. They were standing above me in the air. One of them spoke to me, calling me by name, and said, 'This is my beloved Son. Hear him!'
"My object in going to inquire of the Lord was to know which of all the sects was right. No sooner, therefore, did I get possession of myself, so as to be able to speak, than I asked which church I should join. I was answered that I must join none of them. They were all wrong. The people drew near to God with their lips, but their hearts were far from him. The preachers taught the doctrines of men, not the doctrines of God. And they had the form of godliness, but denied the power of God." He was again forbidden to join with any of them.
These two personages were God the Father and his Son, Jesus Christ. Joseph told the vision to his family and to some of his close friends. Among the latter was the minister who tried to convert him to the church. His family believed him, for they had always found Joseph to be truthful. But the minister told him the vision was of the devil, that visions had been done away with. Soon, as news of the vision spread, Joseph found himself the center of unfavorable attention. His neighbors ridiculed and reviled him, and the preachers warned their congregations against him.
But Joseph was undaunted. He said to himself: "I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me, reviling me, and speaking all manner of evil against me falsely for so saying, I was led to say in my heart, Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision, and who am I that I can withstand God? I had seen a vision; I knew I had, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I."
So far as the churches were concerned, Joseph had now got his mind satisfied. He had learned several things about religion. For one thing, he had learned that God would answer prayer, no matter how humble
502 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the person. The heavens were not sealed against men, in spite of what the churches taught. And then, for still another thing, he had learned that man had really been made in the image of God and that Jesus Christ had truly risen from the dead. He had learned, too, that the Bible could be depended upon, that it was an inspired book. We shall learn, as we go on with these lessons, what use Joseph made of these truths.
Questions and Suggestions
1. Where and when was Joseph Smith born? Who were his parents? Why did the Smiths not belong to any church prior to 1820, in Manchester?
2. Where is Manchester? Where is Palmyra? Where is Cumorah with respect to these places? (Study the map.)
3. What is a religious revival for? Tell something about the one in Manchester. How was Joseph affected by the revival? Why did he not go to the "mourners' bench"?
4. Relate the First Vision. What truths do we learn from this vision?
5. Read or sing the hymn "Oh How Lovely Was The Morning," and explain why this hymn was chosen in connection with the lesson.
Family Relations Institute
The Utah Agricultural College is holding an Institute of Family Relations for five days, July 17 to 21 inclusive. Three lectures will be given daily with a concluding daily session devoted to a summary of reports. Outstanding visiting educators as well as prominent local ones will be heard: Dr. William E. Blatz, University of Toronto; Dr. E. Lee Vincent, Merrill-Palmer School, Detroit, Michigan; Mable Wilkerson, Montreal School of Interior Decorating; Arden Frandsen, Psychologist, Utah Agricultural College; Elsa B. Bate, Assistant Professor of Child Development, Utah Agricultural College; and others.
The public is invited to attend the sessions. No tuition will be charged. Housing arrangements at a very nominal cost can be made through contacting the school.
In view of the fact that the Relief Society is vitally interested in promoting wholesome family life and is also continuing the "Family Relations" course of study, we regard this as a splendid opportunity for all who can possibly attend.
Hoops For Amanda (Continued from page 450)
gers over her curls. "I'll wash and get changed. You're too fine for me."
With her young arms around him as far as they would go she hugged him and cried, "Oh, no, but we'll be the handsomest couple there."
Lifting her from the floor he held her close before releasing her. Amanda put on a large apron. It didn't cover her as it had when she wore no hoops. With a pad in her hand she lifted the pot of hot water from the hook and carried it over to the wash basin to pour into the cold water John had dipped out of the water bucket. John took off his shirt and stood waiting.
"I'll stop to give Carl his share of the molasses on the way. We still got that two gallon bucket around here?"
Amanda felt as if the hot water she was pouring from the kettle was going over her. She hadn't planned on telling John about the molasses until after the dance. John grabbed a handful of soap, using it vigorously. What could she do? Mechanically she handed him the towel.
"Where's the bucket?" he asked through the towel.
"It's in the spring house. Won't tomorrow be soon enough to take it to Carl?" she managed to say.
"His folks 've been without sweets, and it'll be good for breakfast. What could she do? This would spoil everything. She stood shivering. John was combing his hair in front of the looking glass. She picked up the milk crock and began to pour milk into the cups. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY  503 "Did you move the molasses to the spring house? It's not in the corner." Amanda took a deep breath. "It's gone," was all she could say. John looked at her, comb in hand. "Where?" "M-Mr. Rader's boy Willie took it over to the store." She stood very still beside the table, but her hands made the bread knife tremble. "Why'd Willie do that? I didn't say I had any molasses to sell. There's a mistake." "N-noI- Isold the molasses." John put the comb slowly down on the bench. "YOU sold the molasses?" She could only nod her head. It wasn't easy to talk when she might cry. "Tt wasn't yours to sell, Mandy." "It was half mine—wasn't it?" John looked like he would drop to the floor. "Half yours?" he echoed. "Father gave it to both of us, didn't he? B-because you were married to me?" "He gave it to me to do with as I saw fit. Part of it was promised for payment of work done." John took a deep breath. '"Where's the money?" "T-there wasn't any." The tears were giving way to anger. He stared at her open-mouthed. "He had to give you something in money or barter." "Th-the hoops—I got the hoops for my dress." "Those things under your dress?" She nodded. "He allowed me a dollar a gallon." John sat down on the nearest stool with a thump. "You set vanity before honor," he said slowly. 504 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "But father'll give us some more." "That is not the point. You knew the molasses was promised." "S-supper's ready," she said weak- "I don't want any." "You'd better change then or we'll be late." "['m not going. I promised molasses to Carl before the dance, and I can't give it to him. I don't feel like partying now." "But it's the first party since we've been married.". "You spoiled it. We stay home." "John Stopher, I had to have those hoops, but you'd never understand that. Mary Anne Davison'll be there and she's so—" _ She stopped at the bewildered expression on his face. "T won't stay home," she finished. "You can't go without me." "Oh, can't I?" Sobbing, Amanda rushed to the bedroom, tied on her bonnet and put on her heavy cape. She sailed past John with head high. If she hurried, it would be possible to get to the Jenson's before they left in their wagon for the amusement hall, for the building was too far away to walk in party finery. Anger and pride soon dried the tears that had slipped from her lashes. "Could I ride with you to the dance?" Amanda asked as Mrs. Jenson answered her knock. The tenyear-old twins stood with their cloaks on ready to go out the door. Mrs. Jenson's eyes shone with admiration. "Sure, Mrs. Stopher. Say, you got hoops underneath that skirt?" "Yes. John h-has something to take care of before he goes, and I thought I could go ahead with you folks—if you don't care." "I should say so. Girls, stop your staring and go get into the wagon. You can sit up with Carl and me in front."THE new amusement hall was fairly bursting with laughter, bustle and hustle and light. Candles stood on the rough little shelves on the walls of the room, but there were none above the roaring fireplace, as the flames threw their dancing light over that end of the room. Ona long table with log legs were pies, side pork, roast wild turkey and sage hens. Homemade bread and cornpone was piled high on a wooden platter. Fresh butter glistened like captured gold. Puddings made of "Mormon" corn gave forth savory odors, while jugs of milk and cider waited for the thirsty dancers. On one side of the fireplace Jeff Minton and Asael Trestor tuned up their fiddles while old Hezzy Whipple ran the scales on his accordion. Mary Anne had arrived before Amanda. She lifted her eyebrows when she saw that John was not with his wife. And when she saw the new dress her face seemed frozen with surprise. Amanda hung her things on a peg and giving her waves and curls a pat she went to the fire to warm her hands. Mary Anne followed her. "So the little girl-wife has grown up now? You're dress is beautiful, Amanda. Is it a wedding present?" "The goods is. I made the dress." It made Amanda feel less triumphant when Mary Anne was so nice. "But the hoops. You must have seen a picture." "Aunt Annie sent me a new magazine called Harper's." Amanda felt almost ready to offer Mary Anne the book when Mary Anne said, "Well, it makes you look more like a woman and less like a slat," and hurried away. Amanda had many partners. Charlie Winton had told her she'd never be happy with John and should maryy him, but here he was dancing with her and admitting that he was wrong. Anyone as radiant and lovely as she, and in such new style, must be very happy. Amanda explained about John's tardiness, never doubting that he would come and save her reputation, for women didn't go to dances without their husbands. No one said anything, but she felt guilty. 'The evening went on and still no John. Mrs. Jenson came up with a worried look. "You want Carl should go see if nothing's wrong?", "No, thank you, Mrs. Jenson. He'll be here soon," Amanda replied. Then the thought of Indians shoved itself into the foreground of her mind. Indians had been prowling around. What if they got mean, knowing everyone was at the dance? Amanda's heart almost stopped beating. "If he isn't here in fifteen minutes Carl can go after him," she told Mrs. Jenson. "He's got to come. Heavenly Father, he must come," Amanda kept saying to herself. "I'm a selfish pig. He's right. I put vanity before his honor." But she couldn't rush into the night after her husband, nor could she tell everyone present that her husband might be in trouble and it was her fault. She was a baby and should be spanked. Why did she have to have such silly pride? She shouldn't have sold the molasses. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY 505 But if John was staying away to frighten her he should be ashamed— just as she was ashamed. HE was dancing with Fred Brown when she saw John standing just inside the door. Her heart felt as though it had pushed itself up against her breast-bone. She wanted to cry out, to run to him. John didn't look very cheerful, but that didn't matter as long as he was safe. Mrs. Jenson was talking and gesticulating with expressive arms in Amanda's direction. John had to look over and wave a hand, so she waved back with what she hoped looked like airiness. If she only could keep from crying. Darling John! So stern and unbending! He had saved her face by coming—just to be there. The music was brisk, and Amanda had to watch her step. John went over to the fireplace and talked to Carl. The older women were busy at the long table now. Would John come to her after the dance was over? The couples began moving around when the musicians stopped to rest, and Fred guided Amanda over to John. "Evenin' Fred." "Glad to see you here," said Fred. "We wus just beginning to think we'd better form a posse and go back to your cabin." "I told them you'd be late, but we all got worrying," Amanda said hurriedly. John looked at her with such a sober glance it made her catch her breath. "Everybody git your partner fer the Virginia Reel," called old Sam. "Git ready now. Last dance before? 9? The eatin'. "I get my wife fer this dance," said Fred Brown and ducked his head in a little bow. 506 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "You promised this to me," Charlie Winton had come rushing over, then saw John. Amanda looked miserably at her husband. "Sure," said John, "go on with Charlie." Oh, dear, this would never do. She'd have to dance the whole thing through with John standing there, and her heart was broken. He did not care after all. "Bow to your partners," sang out old Sam. Just as Charlie went back to his place opposite her, Amanda saw John leave the fireplace with a quick stride and come toward them. He took Charlie gently by one arm and pulled him out of line. Charlie grinned and stood back. Amanda almost stumbled. She knew everyone there was amused and thought it some little joke. As they held hands and went skipping up and down the line, John squeezed her hands and whispered, "Haven't I seen you somewhere before?" She smiled at him from the corners of her eyes, and her heart kept time with her feet. "Your face does look familiar, sir," she giggled as John grinned. As they held their arms high to allow the other dancers to pass through, John looked deep into her eyes, and Amanda felt like a flash of lightning had welded them together. The world was a cloud, and they were floating upon -UNDERWEAR.- Newest Improved Patterns For both Men and Women we have served you now for 39 years—can be purchased as usual SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 South Main Street 1939 Samples and Prices sent FREE on Request stumbled. She knew everyone there was amused and thought it some little joke. As they held hands and went skipping up and down the line, John squeezed her hands and whispered, "Haven't I seen you somewhere before?" She smiled at him from the corners of her eyes, and her heart kept time with her feet. "Your face does look familiar, sir," she giggled as John grinned. As they held their arms high to allow the other dancers to pass through, John looked deep into her eyes, and Amanda felt like a flash of lightning had welded them together. 'The world was a cloud, and they were floating upon it. THE END TEMPLE & BURIALCLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN General Board Relief Society 29 BISHOP'S BUILDING In One Volume Published by Columbia University Press CONTAINS over 5,000,000 words; 1,965 pages of text matter; 53,313 articles, each designed to cover its subject adequately. Although prepared by scholars and experts, every article is simply and clearly written so that it is understandable to every reader. Nowhere is there waste verbiage or irrelevant or obsolete material. No religious, racial or political bias or prejudice. "The first one-volume encyclopedia in English worthy of the name," says the New York Times. The most useful book for home, school and office.
DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah $17.50
Yes! It's Convenient! It's Inexpensive!
Our New, Convenient, Inexpensive ready-made Binder for keeping your Relief Society Magazines readily accessible with a minimum of trouble. These binders are durable, attractive, and so made that a whole year's issues can be conveniently kept, issue by issue, ready for immediate reference. And the price is only $1.00 per binder!
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah Prompt Attention Given to Mail Orders and Inquiries
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
INSURANCE Heber J. Grant, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah
AUGUST, 1939 Vol. XXVI—No. 8
"'ON LLVHD 'ALD HVTVS IIVS"
Mail Your subscription NOW! Make sure you will receive the September number at the date of issue, rather than take the chance of ordering it in October as a back number. Your ward agent will receive credit for your subscription if you mention it when she calls.
Beneficial Life Insurance Company Back Cover 505 Brigham Young University Inside Back Cover 579
Deseret Book Company 580 Deseret News Press 579 Fisher's Master Bakers 21 L. D. S. Business College 580 Salt Lake Knitting Store Inside Back Cover 580 University of Utah 578 Utah Power and Light Company Z. C. M. I.
Spiritualized Education
In keeping with the ideals of its founder, Brigham Young, the Church University is dedicated to the work of providing the youth of Zion an education which ennobles the spirit and the heart and trains the hand and the mind. This kind of education prepares young people for the responsibilities of citizenship in both the Church and the nation.
Thirty-six departments of the University offer courses leading to success in more than a hundred vocations. Congenial social environment of the University campus adds further to the value of educational experience there.
REGISTRATION DATES September 22-23... Freshman Registration September 25... General Registration
September 25... "New Student Program" September 26... Regular Instruction Begins
Write for a catalog to: The President BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Provo, Utah
"Scholarship — Spirituality — Character"
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVI AUGUST, 1939 No. 8
AUGUST CONTENTS
Special Features
The Cover................................................................507 Frontispiece—I Love A Brook.............................Anna Prince Redd 505 (Illustrated by Leland N. Peterson) Woman as an Interpreter of the Truth......................Maude B. Jacob 509 Apostle Melvin Joseph Ballard.............................Belle S. Spafford 513 Mothers' Influence in Priesthood Work....................Achsa E. Paxman 515 Good Taste In Home Decorating...............................I. A. Fisher 524 The Relief Society in the Welfare Plan.....................Harold B. Lee 526 What Is Public Health?......................................Dr. J. L. Jones 528
Fiction
Little Old Glass Slipper....................................Fae Decker Dix 518 "The Ancient Beautiful Things"..............................Vesta P. Crawford 533 The Shining Heart.........................................Sibyl Spande Bowen 539
General Features
The Sea Lion Cave........................................Dorothy Nell Mair 522 Guarding the Family Health.................................Elna Miller 530 Happenings............................................Annie Wells Cannon 536 Editorial: "A Golden Future"...................................................531 Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest.........................................544 The Magazine, A Medium For Growth................Dorothy Clapp Robinson 545 Activities..................................................................548 Handicraft Department..................................Nellie O. Parker 550 Music Department (Gioacchino Antonio Rossini)........Janet M. Thompson 551 Notes from the Field...................................Julia A. F. Lund 552
Lessons
Theology—John the Beloved (Continued).........................................557 Messages to the Home—Unity....................................................560 Literature—"Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc"............................561 Social Service—How Shall I Conduct Myself in an Age of Automobiles?..........564 Family Relations—The Family Pocketbook.......................................570 Mission—Cumorah and the Golden Book...........................................574
Poetry
I Love A Brook...........................................Anna Prince Redd 508 Opportunity..............................................Mabel Jones 517 The Summer Sun..........................................Wilford D. Lee 521 Contemplation.........................................Bertha M. Rosevear 525 On Being Presented With A Locket....................Ruth Louise Partridge 532 Zion..................................................Gertrude Perry Stanton 535 The Greater Happiness................................Adeline Rasmussen Ensign 543 Home..................................................Afton Clegg 549 The Touch of the Master Artist............................Lorine H. Lee 556
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
THE COVER
AUGUST is vacation time—play time. It is important for people to play, to forget their tasks and engage in some recreation that is healthful and interesting. The child with his dog plays in the shady lane and is happy. The adult, too, must take time to partake of the enriching human pleasures that are so abundant. Unwise indeed is he who spends all his energies in work, who never takes time to play with his friends and family. "Sweet recreation barred, what doth ensue but moody and dull melancholy, kinsman to grim and comfortless despair; and at their heels, a huge infectious troop of pale distemperatures and foes to life."
I Love A Brook
By Anna Prince Redd
I love a brook, a swiftly moving stream That tumbles down a mountain from the snows And finds its way across the town to gleam Like silver ribbon through the meadow as it goes.
It bides its time and flows beneath the clover, If storms becloud or earth's mould holds it back It but accumulates in strength, and spilling over It clears and finds its way along a crack.
Then still and deep and stately-wending, proud To be a-moving, happy just to be, It presses on till joyous, bounding, loud, It surges over rocks to meet the sea.
So runs my life: Reunion is my goal. Thus must I strive, and striving find my soul.
Woman as an Interpreter of the Truth
By Maude B. Jacob
"One is richest in soul who has given most to enrich souls."
WOMAN'S opportunity in friendship is limitless in degree and scope from the outside world of life and beauty to the inner world of affection and communion. Life is gladdened, ennobled, and inspired in varying degrees as each day the intimacies of nature, of art, and of music, the human associations in work and in play, and the communion of home and church touch us. If intimacy, companionship, and communion may be considered in the range of friendship, then "the problem of life is the problem of friendship". It is no new thought that the spiritual life is but a deepening friendship with God.
The world today, individuals as well as peoples, are yearning for friendship. It is the peculiar glory of womanhood to be friendly. This superior quality, friendliness, comes from a combination of heart and mind, from woman's spiritual perception and sensibilities, from her ability for self-effacement and her sympathy for human frailties, and from her indefinable sense of and power of living for immaterial things. Lamartine, the great French humanist, says of woman's adaptability for friendliness, "Nature has given women two heavenly gifts which distinguish them and often raise them above human nature—compassion and enthusiasm. By compassion they devote themselves and by enthusiasm they exalt themselves."
It is the tendency of woman to prefer to be the "inspirer" rather than "creator," a condition which may be due largely to her disposition but in part, no doubt, to the influence of the social and religious forces that have directed human progress. The role of woman as inspirer is one which on the whole is most advantageous to general progress. Nevertheless, it is evident that many of the social, political, and aesthetic influences of civilization have seen birth in women's minds long before they were carried to public organizations. All in all, it appears most providential for man, the conqueror of the material world, that woman with her intuitiveness, ingeniousness, and encouragement has proved herself worthy of the role of inspirer. Tennyson, the Victorian poet, as he considered the effect of education upon woman's influence, saw this greater role and recorded it in the delightful idyll, "The Princess:"
"Everywhere Two heads in council, two beside the hearth, Two in the tangled business of the world, Two in the liberal offices of life. The woman's cause is man's: they rise or sink Together, dwarfed or godlike, bond or free."
To make new laws, to discover new truths, to invent new devices, to write books, to paint pictures is something measurable. For such creations the laurels of the world have been given in grateful tribute. To shape traditions, mold lives, increase another's efficiency, create harmony by eliminating chaos is not measurable. There are no statutes for these virtues. Yet, in every age and in every hamlet women have served as inspired companions of loved ones and friends, as guardians of the good and beautiful in life.
The role of woman as "companion," one of her noblest functions, has received but little attention from those who have written of the place of women in the world. From the individual biographies of the leaders of thought and affairs one may glean evidence of the sympathy, encouragement, and cooperation of mothers, wives, sisters, and companions that have aided in the achievement of success in the face of obstacles and despair. The encouragement given to Galileo by his loving daughter Marie Celeste, to Pasteur by his devoted wife, to William Herschell by the sacrifices of his sister are part of the progress of science. Inspired by the confidence and sympathy of woman's love Liszt, Wagner, Mozart, Chopin, and Beethoven yielded imperishable creations in the realm of music. Michelangelo speaks of the influence of his friend, Vittoria Colonna, as "the tool by which his genius had been formed". In the field of literature the examples are legion. Wordsworth writes of his beloved sister, Dorothy:
"She in the midst of all preserved me still A Poet, made me seek beneath that name And that alone, my office upon earth."
For the immortal Dante, Beatrice was "the solitary star" which directed him through all the vicissitudes of life, unlocking his brains and heart, thus guiding him to the sublime creation of "The Divine Comedy". These and many others are examples of what Aristotle terms as friendship: "The friendship that is communion."
THE supreme example of friendship that is "understanding" comes to us from the life of Mary of Bethany, her friendship with Jesus of Nazareth. The home of Mary, her sister Martha, and her brother Lazarus was a haven of refuge in the latter days of the ministry of Jesus. Homeless, misunderstood, and persecuted, Jesus, the Man of Sorrows, found comfort with these friends. As Jesus spoke to them of his mission to mankind it seemed that Mary realized more than Martha what Jesus needed, understanding, not nourishment. The humble associates of Jesus, His disciples, seemed unable to sense the significance of the events of those last weeks. It was to Martha Jesus had given assurances of everlasting life upon the death of Lazarus but with Mary Jesus wept. It was at the home of Simon that Mary's understanding was to be given supreme expression. Realizing the closeness of the death of Jesus she took the priceless ointment used in anointing for burial and kneeling at his feet, anointed him, seeking to comfort Jesus with an expression that might symbolize the everlasting power of his life. And Jesus understood Mary's act and was comforted by it, for He said of her, "She hath wrought a good work upon me. Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, that also which this woman hath done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her."
It has been said of Mary of Bethany that of all the followers of Jesus she, more than anyone else, appreciated his deepest longings—she understood whether an unburdening of heart or an alabaster box was needed. The world today needs its Marys to help to teach the lessons of friendship. "Long after the menu has been forgotten, the companionship about the table remains the richest part of any feast." There is always the need of the instinct of Mary for friendship which is understanding to detect and satisfy the need in the life of another. There is also a great restless world about us, eager not so much for "the material delicacies of Martha's table as for the spiritual joys of Mary's companionship".
The inspiration of the great companionship of Saint Jerome and Paula of Rome has been lost to the world in the stupendous contribution of the Latin Vulgate of the Bible, yet its production was due to the intellectual and spiritual companionship of two great souls. Saint Jerome is best known today as the translator of the Bible from the original tongues into Latin from which translation all others have been made including the King James translation. Jerome as a young man was recognized by the Christian Church under Pope Damasus as the greatest authority upon the languages of the time. In the year 382 A. D. Jerome was given the task of revising the translations of the Gospels from the Greek. Because of his saintliness and his learning many of the patricians of Rome appealed to Jerome for instruction. A noble Roman matron upon becoming a Christian established a convent to which women could come for religious instruction. To this school Paula and her daughter, Eustochium, both widows, came for direction. Paula's keen intellect, superior knowledge of Latin and Greek, and her intense spirituality quickly appealed to Jerome as he worked with her at the convent.
So that Jerome could complete his great task he left Rome and established himself at Bethlehem building a tiny monastery near the scene of the Nativity. Later Paula and her daughter followed, giving all of their wealth to the establishment of a convent at Bethlehem. From the menial duties of the convent she assigned herself, Paula saved time to serve Jerome as scribe and translator. Under her encouragement the task assigned to Jerome was extended to the re-translation of the works of the major prophets and then to the historical and literary books of the Old Testament record. These saintly women through their encouragement and aid sustained and guarded Jerome. Many times he would have yielded to despair at the magnitude and difficulties of the task had it not been for Paula and Eustochium. The complete story of this prodigious undertaking, the Latin Vulgate, is little known but less known are the facts of the loving service, intellectual aid, and spiritual understanding of Paula. Paula died before the completion of the task, but Jerome gave to the world as he had promised her the completion of her dream, the Latin Vulgate of the Bible. For Jerome, Paula, and Eustochium the Christian Church gave the reward of sainthood, but from the world the friendship, holiness, profound learning, and supreme genius of the three receive tribute every time the pages of the Divine Library are turned and yield to humanity the testimony of God and His Divine Love.
AS MUCH as has been said of woman's gift of friendship, shall nothing be said of her great need of friendship? Her need, as great as man's, is met from the same sources as his in the realm of material and human contacts. Of friendships, woman for woman, none have been more beautiful than that of Ruth and Naomi. Never was the lonely heart of woman comforted more than when Ruth spoke to the sorrowing Naomi the words, "Whither thou goest, I will go... Your people shall be my people, your God shall be my God."
Many have been the admirers of George Eliot's great work, appreciating her understanding of those qualities of character which create tragedy and happiness in human lives. The Hetty Sorrels, the Tom and Maggie Tullivers, the Silas Marners, the Dolly Winthrops of life have more meaning for us because of George Eliot's unforgettable portrayals. Only a few courageous biographers have given credit to George Henry Lewes for his contribution to this great author. He it was who gave up his life work as author and literary critic to protect, encourage, and inspire George Eliot. To Mary Ann Evans, the critic of the Westminster Review, he pointed the way to become a novelist. For him she was a great cause. Truly "they rose to greatness together."
What shall be said of the greatest of all companionships, marriage? The greatest of earthly joys have come to man through the sacred ties of marriage as also have come the greatest tragedies when the mystery of death has severed those ties. The great quest for evidence of immortality has received its greatest impetus from man's desire for the continuation of the loving associations of earth life for all eternity. The greatest truth given to the world by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times is that marriage is to be for eternity, that man's everlasting joy and progress depends upon his completion through marriage. Happiness through self-completion is the goal of those who know God's purposes. With this supreme concept of eternal progress and happiness must come the understanding that marriage must be more than physical attraction and satisfaction; it must be more than intellectual harmony; it must be a spiritual companionship.
Woman's ability for friendship lies not in her learning but in her understanding; not in her rank or calling but in her spirit, for "the humblest light may kindle a light brighter than its own". To have Mary's sacred gift of understanding is the desire of every woman seeking to fill her sacred role of "Interpreter of the Faith" for her generation and those to follow.
Apostle Melvin Joseph Ballard
By Belle S. Spafford
AN overwhelming loss came to the Church Sunday evening, July 30, 1939, in the passing of Apostle Melvin J. Ballard, following a brief illness. Born of sturdy pioneer parentage, who assisted in the establishment of our great Western Empire, Elder Ballard has with diligence and faith devoted his life to the establishment of the work of the Lord in many parts of the world.
Henry and Margaret McNeil Ballard, parents of Apostle Ballard, early located in the beautiful Cache Valley of Northern Utah. Many hardships attended early life there, but their strong testimony that God lives and overrules to bring about the perfection of his obedient children never wavered. A few years prior to the birth of Melvin... "when the clouds of darkness hovered long about them, the mother, with a broken heart and contrite spirit bowed in solemn supplication before her Father, and received the assuring comfort that she should be given a son who would be numbered among the Apostles of the Lamb, and to her last day she maintained that this would come to pass just as it had been revealed to her." (L. D. S. Biographical Encyclopedia, Andrew Jensen)
In harmony with this revelation to his mother, Elder Ballard was ordained an Apostle, January 7, 1919, by President Heber J. Grant. This high calling came at the age of 46, as a culmination of years of devotion and tireless service to the Church in ward and stake capacities.
For many years one of the Church's leading missionaries, Brother Ballard's power and influence has been felt near and far. He has organized stakes, he has filled special missionary assignments, for ten years he presided over the Northwestern States Mission. In 1925 he opened the South American Mission. He has labored with zeal in the interest of the Religion Class, the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Association, serving at one time as Assistant General Superintendent of the Y. M. M. I. A. He has always been a staunch and considerate friend of Relief Society.
Blessed with a studious mind and great spiritual insight, coupled with an unusual gift of oratory, his services have been constantly in demand throughout the Church and elsewhere. Because of his earnest desire to serve, his response to all calls has been most generous. Perhaps the Church has had no more energetic servant.
His unusual gift of music has brought joy not only to himself but to thousands of souls. For years he has been chairman of the Church Music Committee, and under his supervision the latest Church Psalmody was published. Through his efforts a finer appreciation of good music has been awakened.
His boyhood experiences, no doubt, gave him a keen understanding of the heart of a boy and led toward his great activity among the youth, so evidenced by his work in the Boy Scout movement. Love for humanity which expressed itself in both spiritual and material administrations has always been characteristic of this great leader. As a little boy holding the office of Deacon, he took delight in chopping wood for widows and those in need. It was his custom to spend a part of each Christmas day, with a sleigh as a vehicle, in distributing gifts which had been given through his father, the Bishop, for the blessing and comfort of those in need.
It is but reasonable that one so endowed with the interests of the unfortunate should be chosen as chairman of the Church Welfare Program, when it was established in the spring of 1936. His faith in the Welfare Program was expressed in these words: "It is the greatest thing in the Church today. It must not, it will not fail." At the time of his passing he was acting as advisor to the present General Welfare Committee.
A man of magnetic personality and easily approached, his advice has frequently been sought by those in need of comfort and guidance, and all who came to him have met with tender understanding and wise counsel. His innumerable religious, business, and civic activities have endeared him to thousands—his friends are legion. Truly a man of God, devoted to the uplift of humanity, his life has been as the Master would have it be.
Counting him a special friend of Relief Society, the General Presidency and General Board mourn with Sister Ballard and her family, and pray that our Father's comforting influence will attend them.
"Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord... That they may rest from their labours; and their works do follow after them." (Rev. 14:13)
The work of the Lord has been advanced immeasurably through the ministry of Elder Melvin J. Ballard, a gifted man, a genuine Latter-day Saint.
Mothers' Influence in Priesthood Work
By Achsa E. Paxman
I WONDER if mothers express joy and appreciation for the good deeds of their sons to the same extent that they offer disapproval for failures and wrongdoing. Appreciation and encouragement for good deeds bring joy and a desire to continue actions that will bring further approval. Encouragement is one of the greatest needs of humanity.
A normal home and good parental training are essential in the life of a child. "We form all our concepts and habits of good, truth, loyalty, faithfulness, and morality, immediately around us." The future of the individual depends upon the wisdom and guidance of parents.
Every child needs the influence of a church. Wise parents recognize the importance of the church influence in the lives of children and encourage every possible contact with it. Our Church, through the Priesthood, provides an influence most vital in the lives of our boys and young men. How can mothers influence sons to be active in the Priesthood?
Every mother who is prayerful, who has faith in God and a desire to live the principles and teachings of the Gospel will be an influence in the spiritual life of her boy. "Provoke the brethren to good works" is one of the admonitions given to Relief Society women by our Prophet Joseph. The woman who is wielding influence over her own boy is also, through that boy, wielding influence over other boys.
The following few incidents, which Brother Newell K. Young relates in his lesson book for the ordained teachers are illustrative of the fine influence and spiritual direction of mothers:
A young man had been sent to Germany on a mission. His first three months in Germany were months of distressing doubts and misery. He took no part in the actual missionary work and found but little results from his study of the German language or the Scriptures. Many times he would have given up and gone home, in spite of his desire not to hurt his father and mother and friends, had it not been for the sympathetic understanding and unfailing kindness of his missionary companion.
At one of the meetings, in which were three learned sectarian ministers who had confidently come for the avowed purpose of confounding our Elders, the president of the Swiss-German Mission called upon the missionary companion of the doubting and troubled boy to speak. This missionary did not dispute nor argue. He simply bore his testimony. In an earnest, manly manner, under the inspiration of the Lord, he told of the fruits of Mormonism in the lives of our people. He told of his experience as a soldier in the United States Army in the Philippines during the Spanish American War. He related his parting with his mother as typical of Mormon life. He quoted her last words to him as he left home: "My boy, come back as clean as you are now, as pure as a child." And with a spirit and influence that even the ministers could not challenge, he bore record that he came home clean. The force of this testimony touched these men's hearts, and they confessed themselves misled regarding Mormonism. They declared their good will for the Elders, saying that such men as these could be only a blessing to Germany and her people.
This testimony let in a stream of light to the doubtful and disheartened Elder. He, too, found God. Since that time he has not ceased to proclaim Him at every opportunity. The mother who wielded influence over her boy in the Priesthood, as a soldier, and also as a missionary, had helped influence another missionary boy.
A widowed mother with four children was suddenly bereft of her only adult kin, her mother. Speaking of the trials and faith and courage of his mother, her eldest son said, "I think it was not so much what she said as what she was. Her very life breathed a beautiful peace into the souls of those about her. This gentle, quiet, suffering little mother of mine lived into my life the feeling that heaven was near, and that God was good to her and all of his children even in their sorrows."
The mother who can inspire confidence that God is good and is looking after His children will promote faith and devotion in her boy and will build a foundation for Priesthood work.
A mother who was working early and late to provide for her five small children found it impossible to get a much needed pair of shoes for her boy. In response to his complaining and coaxing she said, "I cannot get you shoes. When you pray evenings and mornings, ask the Lord and He will open some way for us to get them." "Twice each day during my prayer said at Mother's knee I put the case up to our Father in Heaven. A few days later an uncle's wagon stopped before our door. Unmindful of the snow and cold, I scampered out with my bare feet. 'Hello, what have we here? Bare feet! A barefooted boy in all this snow! Climb up here and see what I have for you.' The uncle handed me a pair of boots. 'See here how good my Heavenly Father is to me,' I exclaimed. 'I asked Him only for shoes and He has sent me red-topped boots.' "
I'm sure that you will agree that this mother had already established in her boy a sympathetic understanding and faith in God that would later be influential in promoting interest in Priesthood work. In all probability, before her boy is twelve years old he will have received such further training that he will be prepared and desirous of becoming a deacon.
When your boy is ordained to the Priesthood of Deacon, impress him with the importance and privilege of having the Priesthood bestowed upon him. During his term of office, know whether or not he has collected his fast offerings and attended his meetings and other duties as he should. If he has been a trustworthy deacon, he will be a better teacher and priest, but each time he is advanced in the Priesthood the interest of the mother should be displayed in this new honor. Probably special mention of the added honor of receiving a promotion in the Priesthood could be made at meal time when the family are together, or perhaps a cake or special dessert served in his honor.
Continue with interest and encouragement, that the boy may magnify his calling and know the joy of work well done. If some question regarding the Priesthood arises, honor the young man holding the Priesthood by referring the question to him. The home that is blessed with this vital interest and encouragement will be filled with joy and satisfaction and will enjoy more abundantly the Church and its spiritual blessings.
May our Father in Heaven bless the women, the mothers, that they may have wisdom that is seldom at fault, patience, unfailing trust, love unfaltering, faith in God. Then we are sure that our influence in supporting the Priesthood will be felt and the young men of the Church be brought into greater activity.
OPPORTUNITY
By Mabel Jones
So swift the moments follow in their flight That like the setting sun's fast dying ray They fade from view into the yesterday Until the world again is hushed in night.
Then mortal man forgets his daily plight Of toil and struggle in the ceaseless fray, And from the shop and farm, from every way Of life, comes home to dream by candle light.
So all too soon this life ebbs out its span Of golden moments, and our day is done. Too soon the night comes on wherein no man Can work. Go, then, while there is yet the sun And do your work with care and thoughtful plan, And leave at close of day no task undone.
Little Old Glass Slipper
By Fae Decker Dix
THE old man was lonely, it's true. But you would never suspect it if you stepped up to his rickety door sometime and caught him looking at the little old glass slipper on the mantel shelf. Mostly he'd be there at sundown, for that was the time when he longed for them—the children and Betsy.
Not that he wasn't used to being all alone, for he'd had nineteen years of it now come September. But he still couldn't help getting restless about chore-time. Not that there were any chores for him to do any more. There was nothing for him to do. That was what bothered him so. People didn't need you for anything when you were poor and going on seventy-seven.
But there was his own little fire to lay at sundown and a few weeds to pull from the row of radishes he planted each spring. It made him feel right useful to be gathering the chips and pulling the handful of weeds as dusk drew on.
It was such a still time at sundown. He couldn't ever quite get used to not finding Betsy there over the cookstove heating the porridge, humming a tune, treading from cupboard to table and back. He would think of her straining the pail of milk he brought, shooing the last sleepy chickens from the doorstep, telling the dog to go out to the woodshed. Betsy had been the last one there. It had been years since the children were with them. The boys somehow didn't take to the land and left as soon as they could do a day's work elsewhere. Married now, they were, all four of them, and living far away. Linnie, the only girl, had died when she was seventeen. It was Linnie who made the little glass slipper so important. During the long months she lay ill she would stare up at the bit of shiny glass on the old mantel and look very very happy. It meant such a lot to them when she could look happy, as if the pain had fled for a moment. Every night when the sun was about to set, she'd ask one of them to move the slipper out to the edge of the shelf and over toward the far end so the last rays could slant over every little point in the yellow glass and make it dance for her. Sometimes the points reflected back with prismatic loveliness on the whitewashed chimney, and Linnie would clap her thin hands and call it her "rainbow" and beg to hear again how mother had brought the little slipper all the way across the ocean to this cabin home in an American village. And Betsy, treading heavy-footed from cupboard to table and back, would repeat in her equally heavy voice, the story of how her own grandmother had given her the glass slipper for a keepsake, how it used to have a lock of her first sweetheart's hair tucked down in the toe, how Father made her throw the lock away when he married her. Here the old man always shuffled his feet and looked sort of foolish, and Betsy would give him a swift glance and tell how she had kept locks of each of her babies' hair in the glass slipper until the night of the fire. Then the old man would cut in with the story of the fire. He would tell how everything in their first little home burned except the little glass slipper and the treasure chest. The treasure chest was a wooden box bound with iron bands containing many old trinkets reminiscent of their life in the old country and many little keepsakes of the children's. Most of its contents were now distributed among the boys and their families. But no one could get the old man to part with the chest itself, or the brass candlesticks in the old bedroom, or the little glass slipper. He kept Linnie's and Betsy's clothes packed in the treasure chest now that the trinkets were gone. Each year he unfolded the beloved garments, shook them in the air a bit, and put fresh mothballs in the chest again. It was a pleasant interlude for him, this handling of the past, this bringing to light again the things that Betsy and Linnie had worn when they were alive and busy and laughing about the old place with him. How sweet it had been to watch Linnie feeding the ducks and the chickens out in the yard, and later from her bedside. 'They'd get so they'd walk across the clean board floor right up to her cot and peck out of her hands. And, if she could smile at all, she would smile and talk with the clucking hens and pretend she wasn't lonely. But it was lonely for Linnie in the village. Here were not many girls her age anyway, and those who were had been too "boystruck" to think much of giving friendship to a sick girl. The old man reckoned, as he rocked to and fro in his quaint, rough chair by the tumbling cookstove, that the yellow glass slipper had been RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST 519 their staunchest friend. Everything else had seemed to go—the chickens, the dog, Linnie, Betsy. Only he and the little slipper held on. Pleasantly, almost mysteriously, he would smile up at the shiny ornament as he sat on a summer evening watching the sun's last rays slant through it. There was an old rose vine still clinging to the bedroom window. Occasionally during the summertime a single rose would burst forth as if to bring him a fleeting memory of what had gone. When one bloomed, he always left it a day, then picked it for the little glass slipper. The slipper could hold only a few drops of water, just barely enough to wet the stem, so the rose could live only a few hours on the mantel shelf. But a few hours would be enough, for they were filled with sweet memories for the old man who rocked and dreamed of his past before the decrepit mantel at sundown time. In the mornings he would rise and make a pretense at sweeping his floor, washing his tin cup, plate and knife, which he deemed the only necessities for a well: served meal. Pushing his chair into the corner, he would mop his face a bit and take his daily walk down to the village main street. All morning he loafed about. There was nothing else to do, and no one cared anyway. At noon he would go home for his crust and bowl of porridge with sometimes a bit of fruit, then sleep through the warm mid-day. Asleep on Linnie's cot, he was a pitiful sight with his gray be-whiskered face burrowed in the smudgy pillow, his hollow eyes closed, his funny little mouth opening and shutting 520 AUGUST, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at intervals to accommodate his snoring. Some days kindly Mrs. Vanter down the road would waken him, bringing him a bowl of cherries or a loaf of bread. Some days one of the farm hands from a neighboring field would stop by for a chat. Once in a while there was a brief note from one of the boys with a five dollar bill enclosed, or a box of good things to eat from a daughter-in-law. At Christmas time the grandchildren would scrawl impersonal notes to this grandfather whom they had never seen and send them along with the family box to wish him a merry holiday. He would muse over these, pretending he could imagine what each little grandchild looked like. ON A DAY in August a letter came to say they would all be there for the village homecoming at the end of the month. They would bring their children and stay at a tourist lodge. 'The old man grew a little excited at the news. He tried to sweep the corners of his cabin out a bit better, and to brush his old Sunday suit. He even dusted off the mantel shelf and put the shining slipper right in the center of it where it could catch the most sunlight when they entered the door. They came. The old man spent four days of scurrying about to the celebrations, mostly with Tom and Miranda and their twins, because they had the biggest car and the fewest children. He was very shy and wearied in the presence of these strangers of his own blood. Miranda had an aggressiveness, a sort of smugness that carried over into the twin's attitude and gave the old man no real peace of mind while they were with him. Although he could not exactly say he hadn't enjoyed the homecoming, there was an uneasiness about him that spoke of longing for his old rut. Ruts were _ his style. He would be glad to get back into his daily habits again. "Grandpa, you'd better come and live with us. We'll be glad to fix up a spare room somewhere for you. Well, why not? You surely can't stay like this! My, I had no idea of —. You won't? Well, of course, if you prefer THIS!' It had been Miranda who had made the offer. To be sure, the old man. Rejected it. It had also been Miranda's voice that spoke the words he couldn't believe, "Well, Grandpa, I'll have to take a keepsake with me. Something to remember you by, for no telling when we can come out here again. I guess I'll just help myself to this old glass slipper. No use to you is it? I'd love it for my new "what-not"! Those old pieces are all the fashion again, and 'Tom brought me the loveliest one. It's the best in Anterville—genuine antique, you know. This little thing will be just right to put between a pair of wedgewood vases I bought. Tell me is there a story to it? I'm quite fond of antiques. Isn't there something I can tell my friends about its history?" The old man didn't believe it was his voice, but it must be for he could feel his lips forming words. Maybe he was dreaming. He would shake himself. He would tell Miranda no, she mustn't take that from him. It would sound silly, but he must stop her. » "No. No—there isn't a story— about—the little glass slipper. None at all." She had swished it off the shelf and was tucking it inside her handbag with that odd smugness Grandpa couldn't comprehend. "Good-bye, Grandpa. Good-by-yel": "Good-bye, my dear children. I'm glad you came." There were tears in the old man's weak blue eyes. They thought he was crying because they were saying good-bye, and Tom gripped his father's wrinkled hand with unusual force as he left him. None of them had the understanding to know how in that moment he hated himself because he had never been strong RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST - 571 enough to say no to the things he wanted to say it to. And here he was still paying at this late date—paying in a funny, sentimental little way, but it was a supreme price to him. "I ought to have told her no," he kept reflecting after they were gone, "and she ought to have known enough to wait until I'm gone for good. It wouldn't be so long. I ought to have asked her to wait." So, the old man just sits and rocks at sunset time and stares at the vacant place on the mantel shelf. He waits and waits and wishes the time would hurry by so he could tell Betsy how somebody's thoughtlessness deprived him of a certain joy in those closing years of his loneliness.
THE SUMMER SUN By Wilford D. Lee
The fierce consuming sun of summer day Leaps from his hiding place, the mighty crag, To race across the sky to sear, and brag To every obstacle upon his way!
How fiercely stabs he every bickering stream, How battles he with spire, and shaft, and rail; How drives he from their meadow fox and quail, And mounts on high to call himself supreme!
Yet, when the calming wisdom of the hour Which brings to rest his lance, impassionate Impetuosity is cooled, and fret Of lost contentions fail from want of power.
Our life is like the wanton summer sun: It finds a cooling peace when day is done.
The Sea Lion Cave By Dorothy Nell Mair
SUMMERTIME brings vacation days, and vacation days bring the question, where shall we go? Motorists throughout the nation will this year, perhaps more than any other, include the popular trip down the entire stretch of Pacific Coast. Every mile of the way is filled with scenic beauty, said by some to excel the famed Amalfi drive of southern Italy. Beginning at Seattle, Washington and continuing on south over the coast highway through the forest of giant redwoods and on into San Francisco and the Golden Gate Exposition gives one a most delightful tour. It is one which should not be rushed through, for there are side shows along the way that are well worth stopping for.
Yet, vacationists by the thousands speed on down this beautiful strip and in the rush to arrive at some prearranged point overlook many interesting spots along the way. One frequently passed by, for the sake of conserving time, and which never should be passed by without regret, is the Sea Lion Cave.
The cave itself is three hundred feet directly below the main coast highway near the small town of Florence, Oregon. All sea caverns are mysterious and interesting, but three things make this one unusual: First, it is the only known mainland home for sea lions; other such rookeries are rocks and cliffs apart from the coastline. Second, nowhere else on this continent are seen those colorful sea-loving birds, the Pigeon Guillemots. Third, and possibly most unique of all, the sea lions and the birds live today in the same unmolested freedom they have known for many years in the past. They have chosen this home for themselves, and it is among the very few places left on the North American continent where wild life lives in its natural habitat without fear of a hunting season.
The cave was originally formed during the Ice Age. As the centuries rolled by, battering waves of the Pacific Ocean enlarged it. Today it is fifteen hundred feet long, one hundred feet from floor to ceiling, and has three entrances. One of these entrances is a corridor extending through the cliffs toward the sea for one thousand feet. The main cavern has a beautiful dome-shaped ceiling, and jagged rocks and ledges project above the water that covers the floor. Other rooms in the cavern are upon a higher level, and the floors are perfectly dry, permitting one to explore. The whole interior is lighted by a ghostly green glow. This eerie light reflects upon the ceiling and the walls where the Pigeon Guillemots are nesting. Threading like ribbons through those walls are sulphur-colored streaks of volcanic ash, deposited thousands of years ago. At one time those streaks were the earth's surface. Today three hundred feet of solid rock cliffs rise above them. Around their base waves hammer in a constant rhythm, chiseling arches and fantastic patterns through the rocks. They have smoothed the sharp ledges where the sea lions bask and play in the sun. The precipitousness of the cliffs protects the mammals from human intrusion on their own bathing beach.
This is the rookery for the Stellar sea lions, the largest known variety and also the most quarrelsome. It is mid-July when the herd begins to congregate upon the rock ledges near the cavern. By Labor Day many hundreds have returned, and there will often be as many as one thousand in the winter herd. They stay until the first sunny days of March. After that they grow restless and begin to roam up and down the coastline, going into the northern waters of the Arctic and into southern waters as well.
There seems to be an understanding between the sea lions and the Pigeon Guillemots. When the sea lions begin to leave the cave in March, the Pigeon Guillemots move in and nest among the crevices of the rock walls. The birds leave in September when the winter inhabitants again return.
The Pigeon Guillemots are colorful birds having red, webbed feet and a large patch of white on each black wing. In shape they resemble our domestic pigeon, only much larger. They also utter a shrill cooing note as they wing about the cliffs. Their habits, however, are not at all like those of our domestic pigeons, for they love the water and prefer to roost on the waves. Out upon the Pacific Ocean they spend most of their lives. Returning to the cave in March, they lay their eggs among the rocks and return to the sea each day. In July the eggs hatch, and parent birds fly back and forth from sea to cave all day long, feeding their young small fish at half-hour intervals. The young birds stay in the nest until September. Even by then they do not have their beautiful plumage and have to go to sea in their swaddling clothes when the entire flock flies out over the ocean. Where they spend their winters no one knows, but they are not seen again until spring comes and it is time to rear another family.
Fortunate indeed is the vacationist who arrives at this spectacular spot during the month of August, for then the cave is filled with the colorful birds and a good representation of the Stellar sea lions. To view at close range a large sea lion weighing nearly two thousand pounds as he lolls lazily upon the rocks but a few feet away adds an experience to your vacation trip which will not soon be forgotten.
"To awaken each morning with a smile brightening my face, to greet the day with reverence for the opportunities it contains; to approach my work with a clean mind; to hold ever before me, even in the doing of little things, the Ultimate Purpose toward which I am working; to meet men and women with laughter on my lips and love in my heart; to be gentle, kind and courteous through all the hours; to approach the night with weariness that ever woos sleep and the joy that comes from work well done—this is how I desire to waste wisely my days."—Thomas Dreier.
Good Taste In Home Decorating By I. A. Fisher
What we do and what we appreciate is what we do and appreciate. Each era is largely judged by its cultural attainments. This truth makes evident the tremendous importance of making life as fine as possible, since what we do and what we appreciate places us not only in the era to which we belong but also in our individual niche in that era.
Since the beginning of time there have been many eras in which the people of that day reached cultural perfection in their period: The Persians, the Chinese, the Greeks, the Goths, the Renaissance, the Victorian and so on. Today we are near the cultural perfection of another great period; an age, whose beauty, grandeur and magnificence will make all others seem so nothing that we can only describe our position by saying, "We cannot see the forest for the trees."
No other period has been so abrupt or developed so swiftly. Fast transportation, electricity, radio, television, new conveniences, new thinking and new living all demand new backgrounds — backgrounds where people eat, sleep, work and play. The tables they eat from, the beds they sleep in, the desks they write on... All must define the people that use them.
Older generations have never been concerned with purity of style. Functionalism combined with beauty of design never entered their minds. They bought what their neighbors bought, not what was right, but what was stylish. They were perfectly willing to mix Persian, Turkish, or Indian rugs with Duncan Phyfe, Early American or Queen Anne. They put style correctness before comfort, fashion before design, and smartness before common sense. Nearly always the results were tawdry, over-draped festoonery that was utterly repugnant.
There is nothing more ridiculous than a Duncan Phyfe table on a Chinese rug, a Spanish house filled with Chippendale, or an Indian rug in a white man's house. A winged chair, no matter how practical before the fireplace of a draughty room in a manorial mansion, is out of place in a modern apartment.
Floor coverings have always been obtrusive and depressing. People still buy rugs and carpets with ridiculous floral designs and gaudy and depressing colors. Yet the market is filled with beautiful varied textured rugs from very soft to very shaggy pile, self-patterned adder-toned rugs in the loveliest neutral tones and soft pastel shades that would brighten and make cheerful any home.
Color is something quite capable of taking dimensional form and depth, and its beauty is unlimited. Yet we have always had the habit of painting backgrounds in drab colors, not from choice or good taste, but from practicality. Almost all wallpaper is incongruous because of overdesign and drab or intense colors, but people still buy it because it is practical. Such practical people forget that the joy of living is part of life itself.
New metals, new plies, new woods and new fabrics are not only fascinating but offer a million new possibilities. Women today have far more technical knowledge about interior decoration than any other age. Children play with streamlined toys and feel the influence of modern life on every side. The only two great retarding factors probably are that merchants still buy what they think they can sell... And that the public fears drastic changes. A few brave souls blaze a trail, but the rest are like the man, who desiring to be humane, chopped off his dog's tail a little at a time.
The modern home will come, and eventually everyone will have one possessing some degree of beauty and individuality. Those with good taste and determination will of course enjoy a combination of comfort and beauty beyond all description.
CONTEMPLATION By Bertha M. Rosevear
There's a still and beautiful moment, Between darkness and daylight, called dawn, When night slips away into silence, And the soul to its Maker is drawn.
There's mystery that thrills in the sunrise, In the flickering birth of a day, As the portals of heaven swing open Disclosing each heralding ray.
There's glory and grandeur at noontide, When the Sun in the heaven is high, Soaring majestic, resplendent, In his course through the dome of the sky.
There's a charm in the blush of the evening, When the west is all crimson and gold, That speaks of the great Master Painter In terms that are reverent, yet bold.
There's an awe that comes strangely stealing As the black velvet curtain of night Drops softly, and stars like tapers Keep watch with their pale glimmering light.
There's a truth that's convincing, eternal, As each moment its rapture bestows: The heavens declare God's glory, The firmament His handiwork shows.
The Relief Society in the Welfare Plan By Harold B. Lee
"In all that relates to the supplying of clothing, the preparation and preservation of foodstuffs, the nursing of the sick, the burial of the dead, in all that relates to the infinities of kindly attention and sympathy, in all that relates even remotely to the love and ritual of motherhood, the Women's Relief Society carries the burden. The bishop is the father of his ward; the Relief Society is the mother. The Church Welfare Plan could not be carried on without them; it serves in greatest measure where they are most active. They establish sewing and cooking centers, they help with making budgets, they encourage the heavily burdened and despondent, they hold up the hands of the fainthearted, they sweep despair out of the hearts of the distressed, they plant hope and faith and righteousness in every household. Womanhood is the nearest approach to the divine which mortals know. Mothers make up the great membership of the Relief Society."
The above tribute to the Relief Society organization of the Church was paid by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in an address delivered before business executives at Estes Park, Colorado, on June 20, 1939. It would be difficult to describe any activity relating to the Welfare Plan in which the Relief Society is not expected to play an important role. Truly, it bears a relationship to the bishops of wards and Priesthood quorums that suggests a family relationship.
Unity of the Priesthood with the Relief Society in Welfare Work.
For nearly 100 years the Relief Society organization has been charged with the responsibility of searching after those in need and provoking the brethren in looking after their poor, and they have kept this charge most faithfully. Recently from our Presiding Authorities has come a new interpretation of the work of a Priesthood quorum in welfare work. There has been called to service in every Melchizedek Priesthood quorum in the Church an activity group known as a Personal Welfare Committee whose business it is to safeguard the welfare of every member of the quorum and to search out those in need. It should be clear to everyone that with two great organizations such as Priesthood quorums and Relief Society entering into the field of welfare harmony is essential. Perhaps no one thing is more imperative today in the Welfare Plan than teamwork and coordination of the work assigned to Personal Welfare Committees and Relief Society organizations.
Organizations of the Church Welfare Plan.
To foster this unity, the Church Welfare Committee has described a Stake Welfare Committee composed of the following: Members of the Stake Presidency as advisors, a member of the Stake Presidency as chairman of the Committee, and the following as members: Stake Work Director, Chairman of the Bishop's Executive Council, Chairman of Stake Agricultural Committee, Stake Relief Society President and Stake Relief Society Work Director. This Committee is expected to plan the welfare program for a given stake and to stimulate corresponding committees in the various wards of the stake to activities that will accomplish the objectives that have been outlined for the Plan.
In each ward the Ward Welfare Committee consists of the following: Ward Bishopric as advisors, the Ward Bishop or one of his counselors acting as chairman, and the following as members: Ward Work Director, Chairman of Personal Welfare Committees of the High Priests, Seventies, Elders, Leader of the Aaronic Priesthood, Ward Relief Society President and Ward Relief Society Work Director. This Committee is expected to meet together weekly, and by the use of surveys and reports that may come periodically, and in harmony with instructions from the Stake Welfare Committee, is to conduct such activities and promote such projects as will assist needy individuals of the Church to become self-sustaining.
Suggested Types of Projects.
The Ward Welfare Committee in cooperation with the Stake Welfare Committee is expected to carry on in every line of endeavor to promote the welfare of the people of the ward. Projects and activities that may be stimulated by this group may be classified under the three following headings:
A. Projects for the production of commodities needed by unemployed persons or which may be exchanged for commodities that are needed, such as: Canning of fruits and vegetables, production of meats and meat products, producing flour, cereals, soaps, cleansers, poultry products, fish, butter, cheese, milk, clothing, fuel, building materials and furniture. Many of these articles are not yet produced in sufficient abundance to meet the requirements of those who are forced to subsist on Bishops' Orders after having done all they can to help themselves.
B. Church activities carried on by other organizations and closely related to the Welfare Plan, such as:
1. The payment and collection of tithes and fast offerings as outlined by the Presiding Bishop's office.
2. Home and Church Beautification.
3. Activities of Priesthood quorums in finding employment for our unemployed members in private industry.
4. Conduct of Priesthood Quorum projects to assist dependent members to become self-sustaining.
5. The Genealogical projects to raise funds to assist elderly or handicapped persons to work in the temples on subscription lists submitted by donors.
6. Vocational training and guidance for young people through the M. I. A.
C. Industrial or commercial enterprises designed to create new wealth in the communities and to furnish new employment. Under this head may be listed the following:
1. Industrial projects that grow out of efforts to assist distressed individuals.
2. Cooperative industrial and marketing organizations.
In the planning of all these projects the Relief Society presidents are to join and so coordinate their work with the Priesthood groups that all able-bodied, unemployed persons in need of assistance will be required to give service on such projects. All individuals who are so engaged are to be properly fed, clothed, and housed, according to the desires and wishes of the Presiding Brethren. The Relief Society workers should be constantly alert to find points of contact where a closer relationship with Priesthood quorums would make for increased power and greater opportunities in the Welfare Plan.
What Is Public Health? By Dr. J. L. Jones, Utah State Health Commissioner
"Public health is the science and art of preventing disease, prolonging life and promoting physical and mental efficiency through organized community effort."—Dr. M. J. Rosenau, Emeritus Professor of Public Health, Harvard University.
It is to be emphasized that public health service has to do with the promotion of positive health and the prevention of disease, in all their various aspects, but not with the treatment of disease. The entire field of medical care and corrective procedures is, and properly should be, the province of the practicing physician and dentist. The purpose and value of public health service is briefly but well stated in the following statement by the Public Health Advisory Committee to the State Planning Board:
"Next to the immediate needs of food and shelter, there is no matter of greater importance to the individual or to the public at large than health. On it depends the individual's happiness as well as the efficiency of work; whether he will be an asset to the community, or a liability to the society of which he forms a part. The health of many individuals becomes the health of a people. It may be said that the effectiveness of a whole people in their work of development of the resources on which they live, in their ability to enjoy life, as well as their power of reproduction and continuation of the line of progress, depends on health. On account of this, health is very much a concern of the public at large, it is a matter of public welfare."
The great educator, Charles W. Eliot, wrote: "Nothing is better worth paying for than public health. There is no more profitable form of conservation than saving and prolonging human life; and no more abominable waste than that caused by preventable sickness and premature death."
Former President Herbert Hoover wrote of the purpose and value of public health in his message to Congress in 1929: "The advance in scientific discovery as to disease and health, imposes new considerations upon us. The Nation as a whole is vitally interested in the health of all the people; in protection from spread of contagious disease; in the relation of physical and mental disabilities to criminality, and in the economic and moral advancement which is fundamentally associated with sound body and mind. The organization of preventive measures and health education, in its personal application, is the province of public health service. Such organization should be as universal as public education. Its support is a proper burden upon the taxpayer. It can not be organized with success, either in its sanitary or educational phases, except under public authority. It should be based upon local and state responsibility, but I consider that the Federal Government has an obligation of contribution, to the establishment of such agencies...."
President Franklin D. Roosevelt, while Governor of the State of New York, wrote: "The success or failure of any government in the final analysis must be measured by the wellbeing of its citizens. Nothing can be more important to a state than its public health; the state's paramount concern should be the health of its people."
DR. LOUIS I. DUBLIN, vice-president and statistician of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, in his book, "Health and Wealth" (pages 5-6), stated a money-value of human life and made a scientific estimate of the amount wasted through failure to conserve the greatest asset of any nation—its human life. We quote Dr. Dublin:
"The value in dollars and cents of the male and female population of the United States is estimated at one trillion, five hundred billion dollars. This represents our vital assets, assets in human lives.
"Our material wealth, consisting of real property, livestock, machinery, agricultural and mineral assets, and manufactured products, is estimated to be worth three hundred and twenty-one billion dollars.
"Hence, our capital in human lives exceeds our material wealth by about five to one. Is it not, therefore, worth an expenditure of $2.50 per person per year to safeguard the health of this mighty national asset, human lives?
"Sickness costs directly in lost wages, reduced production and necessary sick care, two and one-quarter billion dollars annually ($9,000,000 for Utah).
"The total capital value of lives which can be saved every year through the application of modern preventive medicine and public health measures is over six billion dollars.
"Every year more than 30,000 young people between the ages of 25 and 29 die from entirely preventable illnesses. Their capital value is seven hundred and fifty million dollars.
"Every year 120,000 babies die in the first year of life from preventable diseases, due either to the ignorance of mothers, the indifference of the communities where they live, or both. The capital value of these babies is seven hundred and fifty million dollars.
"Not to provide adequate health protection is to squander the greatest asset in national life, allowing a 'pennywise, pound foolish' practice to run up losses far more costly. Sickness is always expensive. The cost of preventing disease is seldom more than a small fraction of the cost of the disease itself.
"Economy in public health, therefore, demands adequate appropriations for providing health services of proven effectiveness in every locality according to its needs."
Conservation of the human resource is one of our most imperative public responsibilities. The State Board of Health has the legal responsibility for leadership in this function.
GUARDING THE FAMILY HEALTH By Elna Miller Conference Address, Work and Business Department
THE question of guarding the family health through nutrition is one that is receiving not only state-wide but national and international attention. At the League of Nations' Convention a Nutrition Department was conducted with representatives from different countries in attendance. Their report was that a great deal of improvement has been made recently in food consumption habits, but there is still a great deal of malnutrition present in all countries. Their recommendation is that we improve diets by increasing the use of the supply of protective foods— milk, fruits, proteins, and whole grains.
Food supplies for optimum and adequate diet are receiving a great deal of attention now. The adequate diet is one which has just enough of the proper food elements to prevent any serious disorders developing. The optimum diet, on the other hand, is one which promotes the most favorable degree of physical development. Dr. H. C. Sherman is largely responsible for the optimum diet. He has done a great deal of research and experimental work, largely with albino rats and guinea pigs. To the adequate diet he added more milk, vitamins, proteins and the whole grain cereals. The results of his study show that optimum diet results in an increased rate of growth and development during the growing period, increased adult vitality after the adult stage is reached, and also increased retention of the characteristics of youth, more vigor, and also an increased life span.
WHILE we have been doing a great deal to improve the diet of the child, we must still keep in mind that the adult also needs the right diet. In about 1934 the Bureau of Home Economics made a study of the dietary habits of 25,000 families in eight regions of the United States. The only families considered in this study were families who had definite incomes. Both urban and rural communities were represented. Families were classified according to the amount of money spent in a year's time for the food supply—$50, $100, $150, to above $350. From this study we found that proper diet is not just a case of getting enough money but of spending money wisely. Many families who were spending enough money for a fully adequate diet, were not getting it.
In analyzing each group for adequacy, examinations were made to determine if diets contained sufficient minerals and vitamins. In determining calcium adequacy, it was found that less than half had a sufficient supply, not enough for good bone and tooth development, for maintaining muscle tone, and making it possible for the blood to clot normally. Only about half were getting enough iron—an essential mineral. The best source of iron is in whole grain cereals. Only about one-fifth were getting an adequate vitamin A supply, so necessary for protecting lining tissues. The lack of vitamin A in sufficient quantities causes nutritional night blindness; individuals fail to make the proper adjustment to light, especially during the twilight period of the day. This is being given as one of the probable causes of so many automobile accidents.
Vitamin B was found to be deficient in the diets of about half of those studied. An animal whose diet is low in B is a nervous little creature. This is typical of the condition of children when they have a low supply of vitamin B. Diets low in vitamin C were found in about the same number as those low in vitamin B—just about half of the group having sufficient. We need this vitamin along with calcium and phosphorous. We find if we can increase the supply of vitamin C in the diet of people who have sore gums, this condition will clear up. Vitamin C will help to prevent pyorrhea.
In 1934, 70 per cent of the 43,000 young men in the prime of life, who should be in the very best possible physical condition, who applied for entrance in the U. S. Navy were rejected because of physical defects largely due to malnutrition. The year following, 1935, 75 per cent of 28,000 were rejected.
SOME of our people have been quite disturbed because of the reports of our findings through our health examinations of school children. These examinations are made by our school physicians. Reports from all of the counties in Utah are similar; and from what we learn from other states, conditions are not very much better there—some are worse. People will say, "I know my child is not malnourished." It seems to be such a shock to people to tell them that anything is wrong with their children. Unfortunately, we find a high percentage with physical disorders, poor posture, crooked bones, etc. Much of this is due to poor diet.
As I have gone into some of our schools to select children as examples of well developed boys and girls, I have found it exceptionally hard to find good specimens. The hair condition is one of the first things we look for. The condition of the young child, or any individual for that matter, shows in the hair. If the hair is dull and lifeless-looking, we usually find nutritional disorders.
Teeth examinations have been quite revealing. Of one hundred and sixty-eight school children examined, 7 were found with good teeth, 46 with bad teeth, 30 had very bad teeth, and 85 had extremely bad teeth. These children attended school in one of our well-to-do communities. There is no good reason, from an economic standpoint, why the teeth of these children should have been in such a condition.
In one of our public clinics 16 babies were examined; 15 had definite signs of rickets. This is not a very hopeful condition. It is not hopeless, however, because we can do much toward correction or prevention. If we are going to guard the family health through good nutrition, we must supply the mother, in the prenatal period, with the right kind of food. This good beginning must be carried on through the entire life span of the individual.
WE want to train the public in good food habits. Milk supply is important — one quart of milk every day for the growing child, and preferably for the adult, in order to supply the needed calcium. Calcium comes from other sources also, but it is quite difficult to get enough from these.
After milk we want to insure the vegetable supply. Three vegetables are needed—one leafy, green or yellow, one serving of potatoes, and one serving of some other vegetable. Our fruit supply comes next. We want at least two servings of fruit in the diet every day. Our total of five vegetables and fruits during the day should include tomatoes, or citrus fruits. This is particularly important in preventing scurvy. One of these fruits or vegetables should be raw, so that we can get the tooth exercise and gum stimulation necessary.
We need a sufficient quantity of protein, which is so necessary in building muscle tissue, and which is found in fish, eggs and meats. A whole grain cereal supply is also important for iron and some of the vitamin B. We want a vitamin D and A supply which we get from cod liver oil, or its equivalent. Cod liver oil is not a medicine; it is a food. All people do not need it; some can get enough from the natural foods, but many people, growing children and nursing mothers, should be taking this vitamin either in the form of capsules or liquid.
Then there is our water supply. Many people neglect this. Small children should have four glasses, the next age group six glasses, and adults eight glasses per day. Rickets can be prevented by vitamin D, with calcium and phosphorous.
"The education of the general population in the principles of correct eating, so that they may avoid dietary deficiency states and dangerous dietary fads and attain a maximum of resistance to disease and a nearer approach to a life of perfect health," is of greatest concern to all.
ON BEING PRESENTED WITH A LOCKET By Ruth Louise Partridge
They stood beside me wide eyed, Nine and Six, And put the golden trinket in my hand, Child fashion. With mouths drawn into rosebuds with their secret, Both tried at once to make me understand.
I had coveted a locket all my life. At nine and six gold filled me with amazes. But now— How strange it is that now it's cherished only Because it holds a picture of their faces.
"The Ancient Beautiful Things" A Short Short Story By Vesta P. Crawford
JOHN WILSON sat on a rounded rock half way up a long hill in the South Downs country. Below him at the base of the white sea cliffs the little village of Shoreham jutted out into the Channel. It was a fine clear day, but John was tired. He took off his worn shoes and pressed his feet down into the cool grass. The salty breeze swept up the hills and ruffled the man's white hair. Here he was in England again, back home after so many years.
From his coat pocket he took out a blue notebook, a small bottle of ink, and his pen. He balanced the book on his knee and began to write slowly:
"Today is the tenth of August, 1896. I am in my sixty-fifth year and have been on this mission nearly fourteen months. Here I am in this lovely South Downs country, the land of my birth. Shoreham, my native village, lies below me. Forty years ago I left this place and sailed to America with my wife and child. Forty years, and now I am back again, a Mormon missionary tracting in the very section where I played as a youth.
"Forty years—so much has happened. The child we had then has been dead thirty-nine years. My wife died twenty years ago. I am very poor in worldly goods. Yet, in America I found great wealth of spirit, joy in the Gospel, and happiness with my family.
"Utah is a strange country — so very new. I realize this more fully now as I sit on the hills above that place where the ships of the Saxon kings lay at anchor nearly a thousand years ago. Near me, along the roads that wind inland, are old castles and steepled churches with intricate carvings and stained glass windows. Not far away is London with its great museums and magnificent libraries housing the art and culture of the centuries. Indeed, when I think of all this, I am more sympathetic than ever with the efforts of my people in the mountain valleys to bring education and opportunity to their children. It is I, and others like me, who must take back all that we can of the good things of the earth, the ancient beautiful things....."
John closed the book and put it back in his pocket. He stood up, stretched himself, and picked up his shoes. He turned them upside down to get the pebbles out. Then, when the shoes were again neatly laced and tied, he started slowly up the hill, holding his head high, feeling the wind on his face. At the summit he stopped and breathed deeply. How different the moist air was from the dry atmosphere of Utah, the dusty, dry air of the desert. He wondered how things were going now, far away in that little farming community known as Dover. The hills, high crested, blue, now would be glinting in the hot sun of late summer; the river, shrunken in its steep banks, now would move slowly, drift along, unruffled. His little adobe house perched above the stream, how did it look now? His fields, how would his fields be now? Dry, withered, no doubt, burned up with alkali—his hard-won fields!
Now he took another look at the sea beating endlessly against the white cliffs, beating against the shore. He turned around and walked down the other side of the hill toward Kingstone. Secluded, safe, the village lay, coved in by the hills, its crooked streets curved through a green meadow. John thought of the long roads of his Utah home, rutted, dusty, bordered with sagebrush. Perhaps even now, at this very moment, his daughter Maud might be walking along the road toward the adobe house. Dear Maud, black-haired, gray-eyed, a frail little thing for being all of twenty-two. And his daughter Kate, where was she? Home in the house singing, very likely, or perhaps out in the garden. Let's see, it was Maud's birthday this month and six weeks later Kate would be twenty-four. What would he send them for their birthdays? He couldn't spend much money. If only he could find something to bear a message from England to these children of his, something to carry the beauty and culture of this mother country to the far Utah valley—some token of a father's love, to bridge the sea and bring the green hills of England and the gray hills of Utah close together.
It was nearly sundown when John came into Kingstone. Ahead of him he could see a second-hand book store. Nearly every village in England had them, crowded little shops where you might find anything from an Atlas of the World to a first edition of Shakespeare. John never could pass a bookstore without at least looking. How he loved books. How his daughters loved books. Books, that was it. Books are the carriers of all ancient beautiful things. They bear messages of hope and achievement and high thoughts from one generation to another, from one land to another, from great minds to lesser minds. Books are the treasure chests of the ages.
He read title after title. He kept saying to himself, "I'd better hurry along. I really can't afford to buy books." Then he saw them right together, two volumes—The Poems of Elizabeth Barrett Browning, and the other, The Poems of Felicia Hemans. Both were selling for three shillings. John's fingers touched the good leather bindings. The title letters were written in gold. He turned the pages of the Browning volume. He scanned the immortal words of that Elizabeth who said she was "but a cricket," compared to her husband, the great Robert, who was "a mandolin". John turned the pages. He noted the perfection of the lines of poetry, the music of the words....."Because God's gifts put man's best dreams to shame..." John laid the volume down and picked up the Hemans poems. He turned to his favorite, that great American poem, written by an English poetess—The Landing of the Pilgrims......"The breaking waves dashed high on a stern and rockbound coast, and the woods against a stormy sky their giant branches tossed......
The Englishman from America handed the two volumes across the counter. "I'll take both of these," he said, and took three shillings out of his purse. He stood there and wrote on the fly-leaf of the Browning volume: "To my dear daughter Kate, with best birthday wishes, from your father in England, 1896." Upon the fly-leaf of the other, he penned in large letters: "To my darling Maud, many happy returns of your natal day, from your father across the sea."
John laid a fourth shilling on the counter. "Mail these books, please," he said. "Here's the address—The Misses Kate and Maud Wilson, Dover, Sanpete County, Utah, U. S. A."
It was dusk when he came out of the shop. Deep quiet lay upon the village and stretched away to the hills. Peace and beauty. John thought again of the land of his birth and the land of his adoption. He thought of the sea and ships and the long roads in Utah. He thought— I have sent some of England home to America.
ZION By Gertrude Perry Stanton
Walls may be built of brick or stone To hedge in what one calls his own; Sometimes they're made so wide and high They shut out all the sun and sky, And human lives must forfeit pay For walls built in a selfish way.
Walls may be built by thoughts inclined To lead to words and deeds unkind; Then soon come bitterness and pain, Until repentance is in vain. Watch well your thoughts and acts each day That no foundation you may lay
To build a wall of hate or doubt, And thus shut love and friendship out.
HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon
AUGUST—How can human heart conceive a thought of wrong In a world aglow with beauty, rhapsody and song?
LADY ASTOR, Virginia born, member of Parliament, recently won a debate against her antagonist, a burly Scotch Highlander, by presenting him with a deer park on which he was proposing high taxes.
ALICE MARBLE, Helen Hull Jacobs and Sarah P. Fabyan, three American tennis champions, carried off the honors again this year at Wimbledon.
BARONESS LIZETTE VON CAPRI, Swiss aviatrix, made a good will tour of the United States this summer. She contemplates organizing a woman's ambulance corps affiliated with the Red Cross.
IDA PATTERSON, noted newspaper woman, who recently died in Florida was at one time associated with the Salt Lake Herald and an early member of the Utah Women's Press Club.
MAY ROBSON was signally honored by the American Institute of Cinematography for her fifty-six years of achievement on the stage and screen.
PHEBE LOUISE HOLMES WELLING, a daughter of Utah pioneers, who recently died was a daughter of Elmira Coles, first treasurer of the Relief Society in Nauvoo.
JANE BALLANTYNE ANDERSON whose death occurred last month was an ardent worker in the cause of education and social work and will be greatly missed.
GRACE ABBOTT, famed social worker and head of the United States Children's Bureau for 14 years, died last June in Chicago. Miss Abbott's career as a welfare worker was a 30 year fight against infant and maternity mortality, child labor, and juvenile delinquency.
WILHELMINA GARN ROGERS of Ogden, Utah, died last month nearing her 104th birthday. What memories, inventions, discoveries, wars, thrones gained and lost, unfolded during her life of more than a century. One marvels at the miracle.
AGNES KEITH, a Californian, was awarded the $5,000 Atlantic Monthly prize for her book "Land Below The Wind", the most distinctive non-fiction story; while Maurine Whipple of Utah won the Houghton Mifflin fellowship prize of $1,000 for her novel "The Giant Joshua" and Mary King of New Orleans and Helen Todd of St. Louis also won literary fellowships for new novels.
KATHARINE OGLESBY has written and issued a lovely illustrated book on Indian arts, describing the pottery, weaving, basketry, carving, etc., of the different tribes of the Great Plateau.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
LOUISE YATES ROBISON President AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor KATE M. BARKER Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Amy Whipple Evans Emeline Y. Nebeker Rosannah C. Irvine Janet M. Thompson Nettie D. Bradford Beatrice F. Stevens Ida P. Beal Belle S. Spafford Marcia K. Howells Rae B. Barker Jennie B. Knight Donna Durrant Sorensen Emma A. Empey Nellie O. Parker Annie Wells Cannon Vivian R. McConkie Lalene H. Hart Anna S. Barlow Cora L. Bennion Leda T. Jensen
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XXVI AUGUST, 1939 No. 8
EDITORIAL
A Golden Future
"IN the laboratories of today the future is being born." Scientists predict some interesting developments in their workshops that will intimately affect the life of the average man, adding to his comfort and increasing his well-being. Indeed, we may say with Dr. Millikan, "a golden future lies ahead". But he adds: "This is based on the assumption that civilization will not be destroyed by man's present or prospective wickedness, stupidity or folly. The most burning and uncertain situation about the future has to do with social and political matters." He says he knows of no direct way in which science can turn some new type of ray upon human individuals and transform them from lust-filled creatures into humanitarians. This must be accomplished in other laboratories than that of the scientist.
A golden tomorrow can only be assured if the highly perfected products of science are utilized by highly perfected characters. The laboratories of citizenship—the home, the school, the church, and the community—must be as patient, tireless and intelligent in the production of fine characters as is science in the products of its laboratories.
"The youth of today is the citizen of tomorrow." Beginning life at a time when vast social changes are taking place, it must be fitted to meet the challenge of its day. The home, the initial laboratory, must recognize its responsibility and opportunity. It must realize that within its sacred precincts the basic elements of good character are most readily established. Here ideals which direct the course of conduct throughout life are most easily inculcated. The home should impress upon young people that the only tool they have to work with is themselves, and whatever tempers them to truer steel, whatever compels them to adjust their efforts to their obstacles is the best thing that can happen to them. It must help them to realize that persons grow big not only doing big things but also doing lesser things in a big way. It must teach them that they owe something to the world not that the world owes them, and that the world which lies ahead for them will be of their own making.
The future of our country has always been dependent upon the education of its young men and women—education which builds up a sense of responsibility to help develop a cultural civilization and a better world. Every child has a right to an education. This does not necessarily mean a university education, but rather a right to the education for which his talents and tastes fit him. Children are differently endowed, and if our schools are to adequately function as a laboratory for tomorrow's citizenship they must offer a curriculum which will provide opportunities for the varying aptitudes, interests and abilities of youth, and they must help each individual to see the need of his special endowment in the world's work. The present tendency toward trade schools and vocational institutes is a recognition of the varying educational needs of youth. Too many parents have felt that any kind of position in a well furnished office, even doing the most uninteresting routine work, was somehow superior to a job which required work with the hands. But the world is fast teaching us that it has great need for men trained to work with the hands as well as for men trained to work at a desk.
The influence of the church in moulding character must be felt in tomorrow's world. Its imprint must be seen in the deep-seated desire of individuals to do right; motivating conduct, it must function in making the Golden Rule a reality.
The community can best discharge its responsibility by providing opportunities for healthful recreation and constructive activities. This is important in making the youth of today the useful citizen of tomorrow. Playgrounds, libraries, recreation rooms, ball parks, tennis courts, health clinics, music centers, lectures, club activities, gymnasiums, art centers should be made available and their activities directed to meet the special needs of youth.
The work of developing a fine citizen is a big one. It is beyond the ability of any one agency to accomplish alone. But if each sees its individual responsibility and meets that responsibility, the citizen of tomorrow should be a superior one. In the laboratories of today the future is indeed being born. The laboratories of citizenship must not fail to keep abreast with the laboratories of science.
"MANY people have risen to wealth and prominence without giving any consideration to spiritual values. But history fails to record among all the outstanding figures of the world one who ignored the spiritual side of life and continued to make his influence broadly felt.... It is the duty of mature citizens to point out to youth the importance of spiritual ideals as a spur to lasting success."—"Spiritual Inventory," by Thomas J. Watson, Think Magazine.
The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHAPTER SEVEN
BY THE time Robert Lathrop had reached the bottom of Queen Anne Hill, he was of the opinion that Miss Brill hadn't supplied him with any evidence. He even doubted the evidence of his own senses that had first led him on this windmill-tilting expedition.
Standing in the shelter of the bus stop on Westlake was Nell Carey, her red hair in damp tendrils on her tweed collar with the mist of the slight rain that was falling. Rob drew up at the curb and beckoned to her. It was the Delavan hair all right. And he'd say to the court, "Gentlemen, I give you this perfect copy of the Delavan hair tint and ask you to accept her as the missing heiress." And the court would say mildly, "But is there a missing heiress? Nobody ever asked us to find one."
He said out loud, disgustedly, "And isn't it the truth."
"Isn't what the truth, my cryptic friend?" Nell inquired.
Rob did not answer. He looked at the girl and was confused at his own reaction.
"If I'd known you were coming to town, you could have driven in with me," he said, needing to make conversation. Then suddenly, as Nell sat near him, Sally Delavan's hysterical scream rang in his ears, "You're in love with her, that's what!" Was he? He stole another look at the girl, and his heart began to pound like a schoolboy's. He shook his head impatiently—pure suggestion, that.
"Look out! You'll land us in the lake!" Nell cried.
"Or in the lap of the law," Rob said grimly. "Sit tight. There's a boat coming up the locks. Let's make it before the bridge goes up."
Recklessly they dodged in and out of traffic and reached the middle of the bridge just as the guard came out to halt the traffic.
"I've always," Rob declared, "had an urge to stay on the bridge until it's completely up. Some day I'm going to do it."
Nell said promptly, "You'd roll off, of course, the minute it began to rise."
"That's so," he admitted, undisturbed. "Anyway, it's a grand thought."
"And once," Nell said, "I thought you were thirty-five."
"Did you?" he said, delighted. "I didn't think you gave me a thought of any kind. Miss High-and-Mighty in a green smock, stalking through the corn like avenging justice with a hoe in her hand!"
Nell laughed at this picture, and Rob laughed with her. Very gay, they were, aloud. But secretly each one was gnawing at a small tight knot of apprehension, hoping for the success of things hopeless in their very nature.
"And what," said Robert Lathrop, "were you up to in Seattle, if one may ask?"
Nell hesitated. "I was delivering my picture to be entered in the contest."
Lathrop's good humor dropped from him like a cloak. He scowled. "I'm sorry. You're just riding for a good hard bump."
"I don't think so," Nell retorted. "I know I'm no Whistler, but I think I have a fair chance to win something."
She understated. Really, she expected first place. If Rob but knew it, it was his own praise that had given her this hope.
"That's what I thought, once. Slaved away in college like an earnest little fool, spent a year East, worked in my dad's architectural office for two years, all to find out I couldn't even pass muster with a lousy little library," he growled savagely, stepping hard on the accelerator.
So that was his trouble! Robert Lathrop had entered a design in the Graham Library contest—and lost. Nell looked at him thoughtfully.
"That was just the opinion of a few people," she said gently. "You lost faith in yourself too soon."
"Too soon!" he echoed excitedly, "after seven years of it? That contest was all in the bag before a single 'contest' plan was sent in. I suppose you expect a man to be a second Jacob serving for his Rachel—start all over again, with a grin on his face, when he finds he's drawn a Leah."
"Something like that," Nell persisted sturdily. "Every person in this world who has done anything worth while has had to do it in spite of sorrowing friends who hate to see him make a fool of himself. If you are ready to go down before the first opposition you run into—the fact is, art takes time, and I'm willing to use mine that way."
And bend those straight little shoulders into a weary hump with fruitless years over an easel, Lathrop thought.
"Go your own way," he said morosely. "For myself, I decline to go back to planning old ladies' kitchens when I could create mansions. I prefer to go down to the Opposition."
Nell laughed. "And I may be making Dutch Boy book ends in ten years. Who knows?"
But in her heart she did not think so. There was success before her in a shining aura. There must be, for the sake of Aunt Brill's faith in her.
Rob looked at her cynically, as if he read her thoughts. "You are still so frightfully young," he sighed, "it's too bad you have to wake up."
They made him feel like a skeleton at a feast, these Careys, with their eternal optimism, their utter unconcern over their poverty. And that Ulysses thing Nell was always quoting: "To seek, to find, and not to yield." It would get past his guards yet.
"I'm having a wheelchair sent out for Miss Brill," he said abruptly.
"Mr. Lathrop! Oh, that's wonderful. I—"
He cut in, "She needs to get out in the sun," he explained. "I know," Nell admitted. "She ought to be down on the desert for the winter."
If they had the money, that's where they'd go, both of them. Art lessons overboard, forgotten, Rob thought excitedly. Get ready for another pitched battle, Sally Delavan, because I'm going to make it. This girl isn't going to be another sacrifice on the altar of second-rate art if I can help it!
Rob's eyes shone. He almost missed the car that passed them, a car driven by Fred Nagle, with the hungry-eyed Miss Lola Twillham beside him. Not too late, Fred glanced back and saw Nell and Rob, so that he almost ran off the road staring at the two in Lathrop's car.
Rob laughed, "Does he look conscience stricken, or is that my gloomy imagination? And he's driving so recklessly. Must be doing all of thirty-five."
"Poor Fred," Nell sighed, "I'm afraid I'll never understand chickens as I should. Miss Twillham is an inspiration to him."
"I've noticed that," said Rob drily. Why must a girl like Nell be put to it to choose between a moldy old palette and a dull, unimaginative chap like Fred? More power to the efforts of Miss Twillham, but he was afraid even Fred would have the sense to prefer Nell's flower-like charm to the mousy-haired Twilly.
"Do you remember your parents?" he asked Nell abruptly.
She looked at him quickly. "No. Why?"
"I—just wondered if the red hair ran in the Carey family," Rob said lamely.
"My father was not a Carey," Nell answered quietly, "I don't know who he was—nor my mother either."
"How did you discover that?" Rob burst out. Miss Brill had certainly not told her.
"An old man told me," Nell said. "It was torture for a time, but now it doesn't make any difference. Aunt Brill's been more than a mother to me. She mustn't know that I know. It would break her heart," she warned sharply.
"She won't find out from me," Rob promised, "and she certainly won't find out from—"
He beat in time.
"From whom?"
"Did anyone," Rob asked, "ever tell you how much you resemble Sally Delavan?"
"Do I? She's—beautiful, you know," Nell exclaimed. "Her picture was in the paper awhile ago, and Mary Kelly looked at it, then at me, and got quite excited. Do I really look like her?"
"Oh, she's not so wonderful," Rob said, and added hastily, "her looks are all right, but she doesn't measure up to them."
"Oh, don't say that! Do you know, I saw her once—at Maddoxes. She fascinates me. She's mysterious, as though she'd had a great sorrow in her life."
"She's had one, all right, but it's not the one she thinks it is," Robert said grimly. "Her biggest sorrow is her own selfish heart. She's had the cream of everything all her life, and she wouldn't give up a bit of it—even to a starving cat. That is, she thinks she wouldn't. She'll find out!"
They were on the last bit of road to the gray house. Nell was silent. She seemed to have no more to say of Sally Delavan. Rob told himself he was a fool to have mentioned her. What if nothing came of his efforts? If they succeeded, what then? Nell's life would be hopelessly confused by the claims of the two women, for if Sally once admitted Nell's identity, she would attempt to absorb her entire being. She had done that with others she had loved.
Said Nell abruptly, "You haven't wished me luck yet, about the picture."
Rob frowned. "You know what I think, but if there's any luck to be squeezed out of the whole dreary mess, I wish you to have it, with all my heart. End of the line. Everybody out."
And a good thing it was, almost ready to make some kind of fool of himself, as he was.
"NELL, I want to talk to you." It was Fred's voice, behind them. He was sitting between two closely-placed fir trees south of the house, in the little seat Nell had built there, waiting for the girl to come.
Nell flashed Rob a glance and climbed out of the car. She went over to Fred slowly and sat on an old stump some distance from the young man.
Rob was about to drive on to the old barn where he kept his car when Miss Brill called to him from the house.
"What is that contraption they put in the kitchen?" she demanded sharply. "Some impudent fellows walked in without so much as by-your-leave and left the thing here half an hour ago."
"Didn't you ask them?" Rob inquired.
"I did not! Do you think I want strange men traipsing into my room answering questions, and Mary Kelly not here?" cried Miss Brill indignantly.
"What did they leave?"
"It looks," said Rob, standing in Miss Brill's door, "like a chair for ladies of leisure."
"A what?"
"Common people might call it a wheel chair," Rob expanded, seating himself in the carpet rocker, "but—"
"Wheel chair!" exploded Miss Brill, her cheeks pink, "what do I want with a thing like that? I'm going to be up on my own feet in a week or two. Whoever had the nerve!"
"A weak-minded fellow who thought you'd like to beat nature by a few days and get around in the sunshine a bit," Rob admitted, twirling his hat and fixedly gazing at the portrait of the departed Tom Carey.
Miss Brill stared at him a moment. Her lips trembled, and she blew her nose vigorously.
"I'm—just an ungrateful old woman," she sniffed, wiping her eyes. "You know, Rob," she said damply, "I can see now why women are so daft about their sons. Somehow the things a boy does to please you—they're so young and clumsy."
"Think nothing of it," Rob said uncomfortably, and they both fell into a silence, in which Fred Nagle's voice boomed like a near-by loud speaker just turned on.
"and she thought you'd be sore at me—thought you'd think I was— well—interested in her," Fred said, "while all I—well, she does know a lot about chickens. Some of the newer ideas that have just come out."
They could hear Nell's slight laugh.
"Why, of course, Fred, I understand. Tell Miss Twillham I'm glad you have her to talk with. I'm so little help about the chickens."
"It isn't only chickens," Fred said baldly. "I took her to a picture, and we had dinner at the cafeteria."
"Oh," said Nell in a small voice.
It struck Rob for the first time that to her Nell's romance was not humorous. It was deadly serious. He jumped up guiltily.
"I can tiptoe out of this," he whispered to Miss Brill, "but you have to stay here and be an eavesdropper. Now don't you wish you were in your wheelchair?"
But Miss Brill looked quite satisfied. "I never thought that Twillham woman looked much like an angel—but you never can tell," she declared in a tense whisper, and waved Rob out. "Don't bank too much on Twilly," Rob shot back, "Fred's no easy mark."
"He's got to be, because Nell's such a goose herself; that woman's my only hope."
"Oh, I hope so," said Miss Brill.
(To be continued)
THE GREATER HAPPINESS By Adeline Rasmussen Ensign
My girlhood years were filled with dreams Of rising up to fame, To spend my time in study Till I had the world's acclaim; I'd strive to reach the topmost heights Of what I called success, And there, in rivalled splendor, I would find my happiness.
And so I studied how to sing, But then love came along, And listening to my eager heart I learned a sweeter song; It was the song of happiness That love alone can bring, The tender song of faith and hope That only mothers sing.
And sometimes now I dream again My dreams of long ago, And see in them a loneliness That now I'll never know, For though I did not reach the heights That once I called success, I found that only love can bring The greater happiness.
Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest
THE Eliza Roxey Snow Relief Society Memorial Prize Poem Contest is conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board. Three prizes are awarded—a first prize of $15, a second prize of $10, and a third prize of $5. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine.
Prize winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates.
The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Magazine, and closes October 15.
Rules of the Contest
1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women.
2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.
3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written.
4. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks.
5. Only one side of the paper should be used.
6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used.
7. Statement should accompany the poem submitted that it is the contestant's original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided.
8. Members of the General Board and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest.
9. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.
10. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers.
11. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15.
12. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Magazine, A Medium For Growth By Dorothy Clapp Robinson (Conference Address, Magazine Department)
GROWTH, as I see it, is a lifting up to higher ideals, a reaching out to broader activities, an expansion of vision that develops sympathy and understanding. To what extent does the Magazine promote such development?
Years of reading and study have indicated five points of growth. While easily identified, there is no sharp distinction between them, for each unites with and supplements the others. These points are: Intellectual, social, creative, vision and spiritual.
INTELLECTUAL: To stimulate intellectual growth one must have mental food that is timely, instructive, thought-provoking and challenging. All material in the Magazine may be said to come under this head it is true, yet the lessons and a certain type of article especially promotes this growth.
SOCIAL: In this line the Magazine offers a great deal. The Social Service and Family Relationship lessons not only prepare our women to fit into community betterment programs but actually help prevent community delinquency by developing them into better wives and mothers. These lessons are excellent supplementary material for students of sociology. Articles on sociology and social legislation are timely and tied to our everyday living. The Magazine keeps us informed about the Church Welfare Program which, to me, is the most significant social movement of our time. Up-to-date information and instruction on Relief Society welfare work is also contained in the Magazine.
CREATIVE: What a world of opportunity that word covers. Did you know the Magazine is doing a unique work in helping to develop writers of the Intermountain West? It offers a sympathetic, understanding market, while in no way letting down the bars to admit sloppy work. I have been especially interested in the growth of poets in the Church as evidenced by the Eliza R. Snow poetry contest. Some of our poets are taking a place among the outstanding poets of the nation.
While not much space is devoted to art, the make-up of the Magazine is a work of art. The paper is easy on tired eyes. The type is easily read by young and old. The art reproduced is of the highest type and fosters an appreciation of the same. I especially like the illustrated poems used as frontispieces. The love and knowledge of music is being definitely fostered in the wards and stakes by the illustrations of and notes about the Singing Mothers as well as by the Music Department proper.
So much for the finer arts. In the interest of creative work done with the hands there is no end of suggestions: Fancywork, remodeling hints, recipes, illustrations, gardening, notes on Mormon Handicraft and Deseret Industries. Every issue contains something along these lines. The articles on nutrition have a money value for any homemaker. This point of growth appeals to a wide range of readers, from the weaver of words to the cook.
What is VISION? To me it is seeing beyond present obstacles to future opportunity. It is finding new ways to present old material. It is having faith in the future in spite of present discouragement. A prophet said that without it the people perish. Certainly growth is the result of vision. Unless its officers have vision Relief Society can never accomplish that for which it was organized.
The Magazine broadens the vision of Relief Society officers. To agents and membership coordinators the use of the Magazine is imperative. How can they transmit a vision of the work without it? To tell all the essential features of Relief Society would take more time than any one woman has to spare. A magazine can tell it in odd moments over a period of time.
Husbands, through the Magazine, may get a vision of the power and scope of Relief Society. Too often their knowledge of it is limited to the work done by their wives. Given understanding they will give their support more freely.
Bishops who need a comprehensive view of the work can find it here and can also find help in directing their welfare work.
Lay members find many avenues of development in the pages of the Magazine. Through it they may contact the minds and personalities of the General Board. They may read about other women and thus make their own problems easier to solve. They may find out what is going on in the wards, stakes, and missions and gain a viewpoint that cannot be obtained from attendance at meetings alone. A world view of Relief Society may be obtained—what it stands for, what it is accomplishing, its place among world organizations. This alone is justification for the Magazine's existence.
SPIRITUAL: In the teaching of children educators acknowledge two kinds of learning. The first is that which comes by word of mouth from the teacher or through books. The second comes by virtue of what the teacher is: Her poise, her voice, her ethics—in short, her personality.
The Magazine has a definite and dynamic personality. Greater than facts, more far-reaching than precepts is the influence of its strong, spiritual personality. It is around and about and through every line of every issue. To place one's finger on the reasons for this is not easy, but editorials, inferences, theology lessons, absence of questionable advertising, stories of people of high moral integrity, each has its influence; but the greatest reason is the spirit back of the work.
Here then is material—a ladder for growth. What is done with it depends on the individual. Certainly, if used, it will lift our women and our organizations to higher ideals of intellectual, creative and social activities. Vision will be broadened, bringing sympathy and understanding; when this becomes Church and nation wide, it will lead to a universal sisterhood.
Magazine Drive
STAKES and missions are again preparing for the annual Magazine Drive, which in most places is conducted from September 15 to October 15. The unusual success of the 1938 Drive forecasts another outstanding achievement in 1939. The Membership Drive, which has increased enrollment figures in practically every ward and branch, gives renewed impetus to the work of Magazine representatives.
Our Goal
The goal of the Drive is a subscription list equal to the number of Relief Society members—active, honorary and inactive.
Grouping
The same grouping for awards as was used last year will be in effect this year: Group A—Total enrollment of 100 or more. Group B—Total enrollment of 50 to 99, inclusive. Group C—Total enrollment up to 49.
Honor Roll
All Magazine agents reporting a subscription list equal to 75% or above of the net enrollment will have their reports published on the HONOR ROLL in the December issue of the Magazine.
Awards
To the four ward agents in each group obtaining the highest percentages, provided they have a minimum of 25 subscriptions, a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine will be presented at the Relief Society General Conference held in April.
To all ward agents not receiving a bound volume but who obtain subscriptions equal to 75% or above of the net enrollment, provided they have a minimum of 25 subscriptions, a one-year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine will be awarded. In case the ward agent desires, the free subscription may be sent to some one designated by her.
Reports
The same kind of report forms as used last year will again be used. These will be mailed to stakes and missions. They in turn will forward the ward reports to the wards and branches. These forms are self-explanatory. Ward and branch reports are compiled and returned to the stakes and missions (not to this office). Stake and mission reports are then compiled from these and sent directly to the Magazine office.
We urge that stake and mission representatives see that reports reach this office not later than NOVEMBER 10, otherwise wards and branches cannot be listed on the Honor Roll, published in the December Magazine.
Percentages
Magazine percentages are figured on a basis of complete enrollment— active, honorary and inactive—as of January 1, 1939. This figure must correspond with that given in the Annual Report. It is requested that secretaries provide Magazine representatives with this information.
However, in some cases two Relief Society members live together in the same household as members of one family (for example, a mother and daughter), and only one subscription can reasonably be secured. In each case where this occurs, one may be deducted from the total enrollment (active, honorary and inactive) in figuring percentages. This figure represents the net enrollment. This does not apply to cases where two women use the same Magazine, sharing the expense of subscribing, but do not live together as members of one family.
Percentages are figured by dividing the total number of subscriptions secured (from October 15, 1938 to October 15, 1939) by the net enrollment.
Orders
Great care should be taken in filling out the orders properly. The writing should be legible. State the proper address of the individual to whom the Magazine is to be sent— the street number, if there is one, and the name of the town and the state. State the month when the subscription is to begin and amount of money sent.
Subscription lists with money should be sent directly by the ward agents to the Relief Society Magazine office, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Agents who are entitled to a free subscription should not list their names on the order blanks together with names of other subscribers. (Agent signs name as indicated on order blank.)
Executive Officers
We urge that executive officers be ready to assist in every way possible. Often they can secure subscriptions where agents are unsuccessful in doing so, and their active support is a source of encouragement to agents.
HIGHEST commendation is due our splendid Magazine representatives and those who have assisted them. Theirs is a most valuable service. Through careful planning and devoted effort the Drives of past years have been very successful. The circulation of the Magazine has steadily increased. The General Board extends its appreciation and best wishes for a banner year in 1939.
ESCAPE By Afton Clegg
Oh come away with me today Where woods are still and green; I know a pool, so deep and cool, We never will be seen.
Forget awhile your dusty file, Oh leave your desk and play; The world won't mind if it can't find You for a single day.
MORMON HANDICRAFT By Nellie O. Parker
Highlights
Needles and pins, needles and pins, When a girl marries her trouble begins. There's dishes and doilies, cushions and quilts, And rugs for the floor if a home's to be built.
A hint is sufficient, enough for the wise, There's a shop full of choice and varied supplies; Mormon Handicraft offers the loveliest things To make the "Home Beautiful" where happiness sings.
THE business of homemaking is a very important one, in fact one of the most important in the world. Home implies more than just a house or rooms to live in and things to live with. The home should be the fountain head of true living and real happiness. It should be a haven, a warm, gay, loving refuge to its members. To be this it must be comfortable and usable as well as beautiful, and it should be built upon the rock of durability to stand the wear and tear of full living and long service.
Handmade articles of quality and fine workmanship help to build a real home. Their genuineness and potentiality for long service gives a feeling of permanence and stability. Their beauty and distinctiveness add character to the home and give a satisfying delight that makes them a joy forever. They administer to both the body and the spirit which is so essential to abundant living.
During the month of June Mormon Handicraft paid $836.91 to women for articles that were sold. The records are showing a steady increase in business, but the sales are not yet sufficient to pay all expenses of the Shop. There is a monthly overhead for rent, heat, lights, equipment, etc., which must be met if our enterprise is to be self-supporting and permanent. The General Board has been making up the deficit. The Advisory Committee feels that with the support of our own local people this very worthy project can be self-maintained. The aim is not to make a profit but to make just enough to cover expenses. The aim is also to give our women as much as possible for their work and still keep prices low enough for people generally to buy. Our prices are not high when quality and workmanship are considered. They are lower than machine-made articles of the same quality. They are more economical in the long run because our articles will outwear cheaper grades many times. Then, also, there is the good feeling that comes from loyalty to home people and home projects.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Gioacchino Antonio Rossini Composer of Inflammatus By Janet M. Thompson
AMONG the many lovely musical numbers used by the Relief Society Singing Mothers perhaps no one composition holds greater general interest than Rossini's Inflammatus. The popularity of this number may be attributed to the fact that it not only affords excellent opportunity for combined solo and chorus work, but it also provides a particular type of melody that immediately engages the attention of its listeners.
Gioacchino Antonio Rossini was born in Pesaro, Feb. 29, 1792, the only child of Giuseppe Rossini. At a very early age he displayed marked musical talent. He first learned to play a harpsichord. Under the tutelage of Angelo Tesei he soon learned to read, to accompany and to sing well enough to take solos in church. When about 10 years of age, Chevalier Giusti, commanding engineer of Bologna, became very much interested in Rossini. He read and explained the Italian poets to him and helped him to comprehend the possibilities of his inborn talent and the ideals he should strive for, and it was due to the efforts of this distinguished gentleman that Rossini owed the stimulation of his genius.
He produced his first opera when 18 years of age. Between 1815 and 1823 twenty others had been produced. His friends at one time disputed as to which was his best opera and appealed to him for an opinion. Rossini said, "You want to know which of my works I like best—Don Giovanni." Perhaps this opera is not so familiar to Americans as Barber of Seville. This latter opera was written in 13 days—an incredible feat.
His position among the world's greatest composers has been much discussed. His happy disposition and light-hearted manner have been used as arguments against classing him with such profound composers as Mozart and Beethoven. However, we do know that Rossini's melodies are conspicuous for great sweetness. His compositions were intended to please the public for whom he wrote, and they fulfilled their mission.
"Rossini possessed genius of an extraordinary character, yet many are inclined to believe that his inventive faculties were confined within quite measured limits. In spite of all this there can be no doubt that his compositions form a memorable epoch in the history of musical art." He died Nov. 13, 1868. He bequeathed to Bologna Institute an annual sum of £240 for a competition both in dramatic poetry and composition, specifying particularly that the object of the prize should be to encourage composers with a turn for melody. He also gave the greater part of his property to the foundation and endowment of a conservatory of music at his native town, Pesaro.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD By Julia A. F. Lund
Hollywood Stake
THE picture is of a grand Song Festival held by a group of Relief Society Singing Mothers, May 19, 1939. This delightful event was held in the Hollywood Stake under the direction of the Stake Relief Society. The Singing Mothers from Southern California, which included Hollywood, Pasadena, San Bernardino, Long Beach and Los Angeles Stakes, presented the very wonderful event as a climax to their season's work. The combined chorus represented 350 women. In addition to the beautifully presented music "Our Town," the Pulitzer prize-winning play by Wilder, was read by Mrs. Jean Spencer Farr. The choruses participated in this as numbers were required. The ensemble numbers were conducted by Mrs. Mary B. Jex, chorister of the Hollywood Stake. Following this delightful hour of drama and music, refreshments were served in the patio. The event was a memorable one in every particular and demonstrated the fine training and the spirit of cooperation which enables Relief Society women to do fine and artistic work.
Beaver Stake
FROM the Beaver Stake we are in receipt of a very fine account of the celebration which was held in the Milford Ward recreation hall March 17, the anniversary of Relief Society. It was particularly interesting that this date was also the 34th year of the organization of the Milford Ward Relief Society. The program was inspired by the anniversaries commemorated. A beautiful pageant which presented the history of the Milford Ward Relief Society as well as the background of the early organization was read. Music formed a very important part of the program. Refreshments were served following the program. The decorations were in keeping with the day.
Idaho Falls Stake
ANOTHER activity which has been a source of satisfaction and demonstrates the resourcefulness and ability of Relief Society women, comes to us in the report from Idaho Falls Stake. In addition to the excellence of the regular work which has been accomplished in this stake, a delightful report comes of the activities of the young mothers in the Family Relations group. Many enthusiastic young mothers have made great effort to join the group. The picture shows this class of young women. Many of these have small children and for that reason have not been as active as they wished to be in the Organization work. Between 45 and 50 young women were found really eager to join the Family Relations class and yet were so tied at home that they were scarcely acquainted in the ward. In order to permit these young mothers to attend, provision was made to care for their children through the establishment of a successful nursery. The young women who joined these classes feel richly repaid in the very important discussions held on family life. It has been the desire of the Relief Society stake board that the suggestions of the General Board in relation to the conduct of this class be carefully followed.
Portneuf Stake
THE great appeal of music in Relief Society is in evidence in all places. The picture is a group of Singing Mothers from the Downey Ward of Portneuf Stake. This organization has been a source of spiritual and cultural uplift in the stake. It has furnished music for funerals and for many ward functions. It conducted a very fine open-air concert which took the form of an Easter cantata. A sunrise service was held at 6:30 in the morning when an inspirational program was presented to a large and appreciative audience. The cantata, "The Thorn-Crowned King," the theme of which is the crucifixion and resurrection of the Savior, was given on the afternoon of Easter Sunday. The spirit of the occasion was emphasized and interpreted by the beautiful music and Easter decorations.
Summit Stake
A VERY interesting report of the activities of Summit Stake comes to the office. This stake has many obstacles to overcome, but the sisters of the Relief Society have carried on and have the satisfaction of feeling that their work has been successful. During the latter part of the year Daughters' Day was observed for the first time and was a source of great satisfaction to the sisters. At the closing Union meeting of the season the spirit of the Membership Drive was formally launched. The symbol adopted by this stake is unusually appropriate. It is that of a mountain, the summit of which will represent the achievement of the 100% quota in the Membership Drive. On the side of the mountain 8 canyons are indicated, this to symbolize the 8 wards of the stake. The mountain is barren, but there is a growth of evergreen trees at the base. As each new member is enrolled in the various wards, an evergreen tree will appear in the canyon where it belongs. It is the hope of this stake at the conclusion of the Membership Campaign in 1942 to see the mountain, clear to the summit, completely covered with evergreen trees.
The picture is of Echo Ward, one of the small wards of the stake. Two other wards have made an enviable record. A report from the stake states: "Echo is another one of our very small wards and had been without a Relief Society organization for some time. Late in the fall we met with them, at their request, and reorganized. They have done a wonderful work in spite of many drawbacks, which very small groups experience. Almost all of their members paid their dues, and quite a percentage subscribed for the Magazine. Only a few weeks after they started meeting, a very fine and successful bazaar was held. Their Annual Day celebration was a dinner party held at the home of their president, Sister Sarah Ann Richins. The table was beautifully decorated and the afternoon was so happily spent they feel they shall always retain the spirit of love and good will felt on that occasion.
"Upton Ward is our only ward off the main highway. It is composed of twenty families and is situated about ten miles east of us up in the mountains. During the summer it is a very beautiful valley, but during the winter the snow makes it rather difficult to go about. However, our faithful sisters go bravely through the storms and carry on their work most of the winter. Their Annual Day party was held March 17 in the evening. It consisted of a program, dancing and refreshments. Almost the entire ward population attended and had an enjoyable time together.
"Rockport is another small ward which began its Relief Society work in October, after being disorganized for some time. They were very anxious for an organization because they keenly felt the loss after having had one. When they began preparations for the Annual Day party, they intended to make it an afternoon just for Relief Society women, but some of the husbands wanted to know why they could not be included, so the time of the program was changed to evening; all of the husbands attended and had such a splendid time they wished there were two Annual Days each year instead of one. These sisters are doing a good work and have all but two women in the ward enrolled in their association."
Sharon Stake
THE office is in receipt occasionally of a copy of The Voice From Sharon. From this we learn of the fine work which is accomplished through the Relief Society. This stake has been very active in its health work and welfare program as well as in the work of its Singing Mothers. The picture is of the group who offered a very delightful pre-Easter concert.
The Touch of the Master Artist
Earth is a symbolic canvas Of artistry and bliss, I blot from out the picture The things which seem amiss, And choose to see the landscape Of blues and greens all mellow, Harmonizing the portrait Of humanity—my fellow. Brown, yellow, red, or white, He's the animation of the sod, The touch of the master Artist The personality of God. —Lorine Hutchinson Lee.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
John The Beloved
Lesson 2
Helpful References. James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 693, 694, 716-718, 720. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, consult index under heading of John, and Peter and John. W. M. Mackay, The Men Whom Jesus Made, pp. 57-75. F. J. Mueller, Christ's Twelve, pp. 49-53. E. F. Scott, The Literature of the New Testament, pp. 260-284.
THE EPISTLES OF JOHN.—It is appropriate in our Theology lessons to become acquainted with the literature attributed to John and the trends of modern thought concerning it. In this lesson we shall, therefore, consider the Epistles of John and the Apocalypse, or Book of Revelation, in addition to other matters of importance.
The First Epistle of John contains five chapters while the other two contain but one short chapter each. Many of the best scholars of our day are willing to admit that these epistles are all written by the same author who was in turn the author of the Fourth Gospel. We shall therefore assume on the basis of what was said in the last lesson that they were written by the Apostle John.
The second and third letters contain little of doctrinal significance, and we may pass them by. The first letter is in the form of a written sermon which has little or no ordered plan. John's main purpose seems to have been to exhort and confirm the members of the early church in the faith. He expressly intimates that what he tells them is not new; his desire is to give them a firm assurance that the knowledge which they already have will save them. (See I John 2:7; 2:20 4:16; 5:13) As professor Scott says, "He does not lecture his readers, but talks to them, and to its artless, spontaneous character the charm of his letter is largely due. We feel as if he is engaged in meditation and allows us to overhear his thoughts as they arise in his mind."
Still there seem to be three main ideas around which his meditation revolves: (Scott)
(1) The test of ethical conduct. "And hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him." (I John 2:3, 4)
(2) The test of belief. "Hereby know ye the Spirit of God: And every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God: And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God." (I John 4:2, 3)
(3) The test of brotherly love. "Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love." (I John 4:7, 8)
It would appear from the general tenor of the letter that a division had taken place in the Church. Certain members were attracted by heretical or "liberal" teachings, which appeared to offer them "deeper truth and a larger liberty than the traditional Gospel". Probably the remainder of saints, honest and straightforward folk, not pretending to much intellectuality, were puzzled and troubled by the division. John's letter reassures them and lays down the tests by which any sincere member of the church may test the validity of his faith. Most of the ideas in John's Gospel reappear in the Epistle, but in a more brief and general form.
SOME VIEWS CONCERNING THE BOOK OF REVELATION. — The Book of Revelation was traditionally assumed to have been written by the Apostle John. Today, however, few scholars believe him to have been its author. Neither do they believe it refers to the distant future. "More important," says Dr. E. F. Scott, "has been the recognition, on the part of almost all scholars, that it was meant for its own time. The old assumption was that it had reference to a distant future, and endless attempts were made to apply its prophecies to the events and personages of later history, and to the coming destinies of the world. This was a strange error, since the writer himself declares more than once that he is dealing with his own age."
Most writers declare the Revelation to be of a type of apocalyptic literature very common in New Testament times. Note the following description by Scott: "Most of the Christian apocalypses were probably never committed to writing. By their nature they were ecstatic utterances, thrown out by 'prophets' when suddenly possessed by the Spirit. They would hardly be intelligible to those who spoke and heard them, and would be forgotten as soon as the momentary excitement was past. But there was one Christian apocalypse which was written down and preserved... From the book of Revelation, we learn something of what the mass of Christians in that age were thinking. It was written for the people, and reflects the beliefs and emotions of the plain men and women who must always make up the great majority of the Christian church."
That John never wrote the Revelation and that it has nothing to do with the future are views that should be scrutinized in the light of modern revelation. In the previous lesson it was pointed out that Nephi was told by a heavenly messenger that an apostle of the Lamb should "write concerning the end of the world" whose name was John (I Nephi 14:18-27). The book of Revelation we pointed out fits this statement better than any other we know. Then in the seventy-seventh section of the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord reveals certain keys for understanding the book of Revelation. John is expressly referred to as "the Revelator". (See verse 2) A close reading of the revelation definitely shows that John did write concerning events that are still future. Modern critical interpretations of this book of Revelation at best can only be partly right, certainly not completely, in the light of what the Lord says. It is then the business of teachers of the Gospel not to perpetuate the errors made by uninspired men.
SOME TEACHINGS OF THE REVELATION OF JOHN.— In the first chapter of the Revelation the circumstances under which John received his mighty vision are recorded. He was on the Isle of Patmos, presumably in bondage to the Romans when he received the manifestation on the "Lord's day". He was told to write what he saw in a book and send it to "the seven churches; to Ephesus, and to Smyrna, and to Pergamos, and to Thyatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea." (Rev. 1:11) Doubtless they are what we should today call seven branches of the church. John was further instructed to write "the things which are about to take place after these". (Rev. 1:19) We can readily understand that some of John's writing dealt with contemporary matters, others with future events.
Chapters two and three contain instructions directed to the seven church branches. Each was reproved or blessed as conditions demanded. The interpretation of many important matters in chapters 4-11 are contained in D. & C. 77. The reader should also consult D. & C. 130:10 which helps us understand Rev. 2:17. Why the Prophet interpreted the Revelation to the eleventh chapter only we do not know. However, much of what follows, even though incompletely understood, manifestly pertains to the future viewed from John's day—yes, and even as viewed from our own time. Certainly Rev. 14:6, 7 has in recent times been partly fulfilled (see D. & C. 133:36-38), and Rev. 14:1 is yet to be fulfilled (See D. & C. 133:18). The chapters of the Revelation which follow mostly appear to await future fulfillment. John saw the thousand years of the Millennium when Satan is to be bound (Rev. 20:1-3 and compare D. & C. 29:22) and even the winding up scene in which there is to be a "new heaven and a new earth". (Rev. 21: 1 and compare D. & C. 29:23-29). The Revelation of John is in complete harmony with other revelations of the Lord pertaining to the future destiny of this earth and its glorification, the teachings of men to the contrary notwithstanding.
THE GLORIOUS MISSION OF THE APOSTLE JOHN.—The seventh section of the Doctrine and Covenants clearly points out that John never tasted death, but was to remain upon the earth until the Lord's advent in glory in order to bring souls unto him. What a great and marvelous work John has undoubtedly accomplished throughout the ages! The Prophet Joseph Smith tells us that in the thirties of the past century the Revelator went among the Ten Tribes to prepare them for their gathering to Zion. (See Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, p. 126) It appears that John still has a great work to do in helping to gather scattered Israel and in bringing to pass their redemption.
Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit.)
1. Have someone report on specific teachings of interest in I John.
2. Who was the individual that appeared to John on the Isle of Patmos? (See E. F. Parry, Joseph Smith's Teachings, 3rd ed., p. 186 or Hist. Of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 4)
3. Have someone report on the references made by Joseph Smith to the book of Revelation as given in Parry's, Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 44-47.
4. Have a member of the class show how D. & C. 77 helps in the interpretation of certain chapters of the Revelation of John.
5. Name all the individuals you can who, like John, were translated.
6. Let some member of the class consult a good encyclopedia on apocalyptic literature and report her findings.
Plan for Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No. 2 Unity
"That whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the Gospel." —Phil. 1:27.
MOST of the worth while things in the world have been accomplished through the principle of friendly cooperation. This is not a new principle; nor peculiar to the Latter-day Saint Church; it is as old as the society of men. It is essential to progress, whether in family, community or national life.
Unity comes from seeing eye to eye, from understanding born of knowledge, from perfect honesty, unselfishness, and love. The Master gave the pattern. He prayed for His apostles, "that they may be one even as you and I are one." —John 17:22. To Latter-day Saints the principle is revealed anew, "I say unto you be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine." Doc and Cov. 38:27.
Upon the principle of unity the Church has grown in strength and influence. The quotation from Longfellow may well be applied: "All your strength is in your union; all your danger is in discord."
Our faith today must be concentrated in one great work, the building of the kingdom of God on earth. Those who keep this faith are united, of one heart and of one mind. "And because the Saints have free access to the Holy Spirit and may walk within His light and fellowship, and possess the intelligence which He is able to impart, a stricter harmony among the Saints may be insisted upon than in any other organization of men whatsoever."
"Unity in God's work is the strength of Zion."
Questions
1. Analyze causes of lack of unity among Church membership.
2. Point out instances in Church history where dissension has retarded progress.
3. What is our individual responsibility toward unifying Church membership?
Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
Lesson 2
"Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc"
LOUIS KOSSUTH, the great Hungarian patriot, makes the following statement: "Consider this unique and imposing distinction. Since the writing of human history began, Joan of Arc is the only person, of either sex, who has ever held supreme command of the military forces of a nation at the age of seventeen."
Book II, In Court and Camp, begins with a most touching farewell of Joan to her native village and her loved ones. She said: "The time is come. My voices are not vague now, but clear, and they have told me what to do. In two months I shall be with the Dauphin."
Her father was bitterly opposed to her course and did everything he could to restrain his daughter from taking any part in the war. This was a source of great sorrow to Joan, as she had always been most obedient to her parents' wishes, and it caused her great anguish to have to leave without their blessing. She had a premonition that she would never return. There was no thought of turning back, however. "And Joan took one long look back upon the distant village, and the Fairy Tree, and the oak forest, and the flowery plain, and the river, as if she was trying to print these scenes on her memory so that they would abide there always and not fade, for she knew she would not see them any more in this life."
The people now recalled an ancient prophecy made by the Welsh prophet Merlin, in the fifth century, to the effect that France would be lost by a woman, and that she would be saved by a maid. Many felt that Isabel of Bavaria, wife of the king of France, was responsible for the betrayal of the country because of her influence in the humiliating treaty with Henry V of England. They saw Joan of Arc as the maid who was sent by heaven to complete the prophecy.
It was Joan's plan to go first to the governor of the province, to secure his aid so that she could go on to the Dauphin. She won the hearts of the common people everywhere, but it was more difficult to convince the governor and his advisors. Joan waited patiently and worked at household tasks to pay for her lodging. She was absolutely unshaken in her story that "voices" from heaven instructed her, and though by nature most modest and retiring, she was never confused in the presence of high officials nor in doubt as to the course she should take.
It will be recalled that this was her second visit to Robert de Baudricourt, governor of the province. More than a year before he had sent her back to her home, but this time, though he at first refused to send her to the King, she said: "I must still come to you until I get the men-at-arms; for so it is commanded, and I may not disobey. I must go to the Dauphin though I go on my knees."
Her persistence and her sincerity impressed the governor to such an extent that he decided she was either a witch or a saint, and he was determined to find out which it was. He brought a priest to her, but the priest could find no devil. It must be remembered that this was two centuries before the Reformation, and the church held absolute sway over the minds and lives of the people. All authorities are agreed that Joan was deeply spiritual and devotedly attached to her religion, but neither the priests nor state officials nor her loved ones could shake her belief that she was commissioned of God to rescue France. "But indeed I would rather spin with my poor mother, for this is not my calling, but I must do it, for it is my Lord's will."
The governor was disturbed; he did not know what to do. At last Joan went to the castle and said, "My voices have brought the word to me, and it is true. A battle was lost today, and you are in fault to delay me so." The governor walked the floor, and finally said: "... Wait—If it shall turn out as you say, I will give you the letter and send you to the King, and not otherwise." After this Joan had no doubts that she would go. Finally a messenger came from the governor, who said: "You said true, child. The battle was lost on the day you said. So I have kept my word. Now go, come of it what may."
With remarkable accuracy the historical facts are closely followed, but the narrative is singularly free from the morbidly superstitious. Joan's was a pure and unshakable faith that admitted of no doubt. Her prophecies were only in relation to her own work, and she foretold that her mission would last but a year.
Book II deals with this year, beginning with her departure from her native province; it relates the superhuman achievements of this little country girl in whose words or deeds not a suggestion of self-seeking can be found. The author expresses his worshipful admiration for her in the Translator's Preface. "When we reflect that her century was the brutalest, the wickedest, the rottenest in history since the darkest ages, we are lost in wonder at the miracle of such a product from such a soil. The contrast between her and her century is the contrast between day and night. She was truthful when lying was the common speech of men; she was honest when honesty was become a lost virtue; she was a keeper of promises when the keeping of a promise was expected of no one;.... She was modest and fine and delicate when to be loud and coarse might be said to be universal; she was full of pity when a merciless cruelty was the rule; she was steadfast when stability was unknown, and honorable in an age which had forgotten what honor was; she was a rock of convictions in a time when men believed in nothing and scoffed at all things; she was unfailingly true in an age that was false to the core;... She was of a dauntless courage, when hope and courage had perished in the hearts of her nation."
The journey to Chinon, where the King had taken refuge, was full of adventure and danger. The King received Joan with suspicion and the Court with jealousy. The deception practiced upon her in substituting another for the King at the first interview is quite typical. The army officers were contemptuous, theologians examined her, and it was not until April 1429 that she was permitted to march upon Orleans. There is a thrilling recital of her audiences with the King, her marches with her army, her fighting at its head, her battle cry being always, "Follow me!" and her triumphant entry into Orleans on April 29. In May, the English were in full retreat from southern France. Joan rapidly followed, until in less than three months after she was given command of the army, she saw her King crowned in the magnificent Cathedral at Rheims. (The same cathedral—one of the finest specimens of pure Gothic architecture in the world—came into great prominence again during the World War.) The author fills the pages of his narrative with pen pictures of the events and figures of the time; stirring action and romantic atmosphere carry it through to conclusion. There is a remarkable individuality about the characters—the native villagers, the generals of France, the courtiers and the clergymen. In the person of the Paladin, a boastful peasant of Joan's native village, who became her standard-bearer, is interwoven a humorous element in Mark Twain's own unmistakable vein.
Chapter 35, "The Heir of France is Crowned," gives the picture of Joan's supreme triumph. Following the splendid ceremony, the King said, "You have saved the crown. Speak, require, demand, and whatsoever grace you ask it shall be granted, though it make the kingdom poor to meet it"... "Then, O gentle King, if out of your compassion you will speak the word, I pray you give commandment that my village, poor and hard pressed by reason of the war, may have its taxes remitted." "It is so commanded. Say on." "That is all." "All? Nothing but that?" "It is all. I have no other desire."
It was so ordered — the tax gatherer never visited Domremy. After the King was crowned, Joan felt that her mission was accomplished, and she wished to return home to the quiet life she loved so well in her native village, but the King would not permit her to leave.
Of the accomplishment of Joan's brief career the author makes this comment: "The work wrought by Joan of Arc may fairly be regarded as ranking any recorded in history, when one considers the conditions under which it was undertaken, the obstacles in the way, and the means at her disposal. Caesar carried conquest far, but he did it with trained and confident veterans of Rome and was a trained soldier himself; and Napoleon swept away the disciplined armies of Europe, but he also was a trained soldier, and he began his work with patriot battalions inflamed and inspired by the miracle-working new breath of liberty, breathed upon them by the revolution, eager young apprentices to the splendid trade of war, not old and broken men-at-arms, despairing survivors of an agelong accumulation of monotonous defeats; but Joan of Arc, a mere child in years, ignorant, unlettered, a poor village girl unknown and without influence, found a great nation lying in chains, helpless and hopeless under an alien domination, its treasury bankrupt, its soldiers disheartened and dispersed, all spirit torpid, all courage dead in the hearts of the people through long years of foreign and domestic outrage and oppression, their King cowed, resigned to his fate, and preparing to fly the country; and she laid her hand upon this nation, this corpse, and it rose and followed her. She led it from victory to victory, she turned back the tide of the Hundred Years' War, she fatally crippled the English power, and died with the earned title of Deliverer of France, which she bears to this day."
Suggestions For Discussion
1. Compare the character of Joan as reflected in Book II with Book I. Demonstrate the consistency of the character development.
2. Have someone relate the story of the Cathedral at Rheims during the World War.
3. It would be very appropriate to have the noblest war song, "Joan of Arc We Are Calling You," sung.
4. Relate some of the most dramatic episodes in this year of triumph.
Social Service
PSYCHOLOGY AND MODERN PROBLEMS
Lesson 2
How Shall I Conduct Myself In An Age Of Automobiles
I. Automobiles Have Created One of the Most Serious Hazards to Life.
Medical progress during the past few decades has succeeded in eliminating small pox, diphtheria, malaria and typhoid as major causes of death; but in their wake has come the constant danger the automobile is to life and limb. In a booklet distributed by the Travelers Insurance Company, Death Begins at 40, we are told that "Our nation has engaged in six major wars since 1776. In total, these wars extended over a period of fifteen years. The number of American soldiers killed in action or who died of wounds during these fifteen years of war was 244,357." (p. 3). In fifteen years since 1923, there have been killed 441,912 persons, or about twice as many as during the same number of years of active war. Another alarming fact is that only once in these fifteen years before 1938 did the number of casualties decrease from the previous year, which was in 1932 when car registrations and perhaps the amount of driving done was reduced by the depression. In 1923 there were 18,031 deaths from car accidents, whereas by 1937 the total reached 40,300! Fortunately, since this report was written, the facts for 1938 available at this writing indicate a probable decrease for the year of approximately 8,000 deaths less than for 1937. The public has finally begun to realize that something must be done about the appalling dangers on our highways. It is gratifying to see that the broad educational and enforcement campaign carried on during the past year has brought some improvement. In Utah, however, there was an increase in fatalities during 1939—Utah being one of only three states in the Union that did not reduce the number of fatalities.
Fatality statistics show only part of the sad picture, too. In 1937, there were 1,221,090 persons injured by the automobile, many of whom, as Furnas says, would be "Better off Dead". II. The Principal Causes of Accidents Are Human, Not Mechanical. Automobiles are being improved much more rapidly than is the person who uses them. Automobile brakes are better than they have ever been, and the cars protect the person inside better than ever; roads are continually being widened, obstructions removed, and safer curves are being constructed. But the accident toll remains unbelievably high, nevertheless. The answer, of course, lies in the persons who drive. A man's "reaction time" is the time required to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST 565 make an appropriate movement after a sign or stimulus has been given. The time it takes to apply the brakes after a car has been seen to approach from the side is the reaction time. This speed of reaction is quite fixed in a person and improves only moderately with practice. In most individuals, it takes about three-quarters of a second to apply the brakes after danger has been seen, then it takes some time to stop after that, even with good brakes and on a good surface. Modern cars are built to go faster and faster with each new model, but man's reaction time and judgment of speed and distance do not improve from one generation to the next. 'This fact is very important. If a car is going fifty miles an hour, it will travel fifty-five feet during the three-fourths of a second spent in getting the brakes set; by the time the car has come to rest, it will have gone 243 feet. At thirty miles per hour the brakes can be applied, and the car can be completely stopped within a hundred feet. The human mind is likewise limited in the number of things to which it can attend at once without confusion. In city traffic there are often many cars and persons to be watched at once. The resulting confusion definitely slows down reaction time, which requires slower speeds to avoid accidents. Judgment of speed and distance, upon which all driving depends, is affected greatly ly fatigue and various poisons. Long driving in heavy traffic, where much carbon monoxide gas is breathed, blunts the driver's judgment. Studies of accidents by truck drivers have shown that a 566 AUGUST, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE great many very serious accidents occur as a result of going to sleep, and probably a great many more are partly a result of drowsiness and bad judgment. Alcohol is probably responsible for a great many more accidents than the statistics show. The causes of an accident are often reported as "recklessness," "speeding," or some other cause rather than "drunken driving". One reason for this is that proof of intoxication is very difficult in some cases. Convincing evidence, however, has been given recently that even mild quantities of alcohol will definitely decrease reaction speed, accuracy and judgment. In spite of this, the person who has been drinking acquires great confidence in his skill and has a "sense of well-being" which makes him take chances. He will race to beat red lights, will try to race with other cars, and will take curves too fast. Usually the more passengers he carries, the more daring he becomes. We should use every effort to prevent such persons from driving, just as we should stop an intoxicated person or an irresponsible child from pointing a loaded gun at people, which is really less dangerous. We have been discussing the limitations that are likely to occur in all so-called normal drivers. We shall now turn to some of the abnormal persons who menace our highways. There are a relatively small number of drivers who have a relatively large number of accidents, and there are a large number of drivers who have very few accidents. One survey showed that 100% of the accidents were caused by 24% of the drivers. Besides the normal limitations of these "repeaters" are found poor vision of one kind or another—near-sightedness, partial blindness, and crossed eyes. It is little wonder that they judge speed and distance so poorly. Other persons on the highways are mentally deficient and naturally lack the general good judgment required in driving. Then there are the occasional epileptics whose minds are often cloudy, the mildy insane, to say nothing of the warped personalities who "bully" their way through traffic, or who "show off" with their speed, or who throw tantrums when not given the full nght of way. Absent-minded persons, often of high social standing, are a great menace because their driving does not fully occupy their minds. These groups, along with habitual drinkers, are to be found among the "accident prone drivers" who cause more than their share of the accidents. The solution to the problem they create is to require stricter examinations before giving driver's licenses and stricter laws by which to remove from the highways this accident prone group. III. A Few Things a Driver Should Remember. Good drivers by practice develop judgment of speeds and distances so that they are able to allow enough margin to avoid collisions. This judgment is what makes the difference between an experienced driver and an inexperienced one who may know all of the rules of the road and the routine of operating a car. The margins of safety necessary will vary according to many conditions, such as the strangeness of the road, condition of the surface as to dampness and ice and snow, and the possibility of poorly visible objects such as livestock and pedestrians on roads at night. Many accidents are caused by poor judgment as to the amount of margin of safety required under these various conditions; for example, allowing a child on a bicycle plenty of room to make the unexpected turn into our path or for a cow to "change its mind". As we have suggested, this kind of judgment will be affected by experience, fatigue, alcohol, and personal fitness in mind and body. A few of the more common chances taken in disregard of necessary margins of safety are: (1) Passing on a hill another car going in the same direction when the possible approach of a third car cannot be seen; (2) passing on turns when the approach of another car or the presence of some obstruction cannot be seen; (3) failing to estimate the speed of an approaching car when passing one going in one's own direction, followed by "cutting in" on the one car and driving the other off the road; (4) driving too slowly and inattentively for the flow of traffic. Most traffic laws forbid these practices, but they are nevertheless common mistakes with serious results. A common failing many people have is to assume that because the law is on our side we have nothing to fear. We should always make allowances for people who will break the law, because there are always plenty of them. An especially important rule of the road is to always allow for whatever the other person may do unexpectedly, particularly children playing, children on bicycles and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST 567 roller skates, as well as loose animals, and drunken drivers and other persons who give evidence of not being responsible. IV. A Few Things the Pedestrian Should Remember. During 1937, 43,290 of the fatalities were a result of collision of cars with pedestrians. Of fatal accidents to pedestrians, 27.8% occur while the pedestrian is crossing somewhere along the block between the intersections, and only 25.5% occur at intersections, although most of the pedestrians cross at the intersections. The reason for this fact is that cars go faster along the block and are less alert to pedestrians than at the intersections. Many accidents result from pedestrians stepping into the street from between parked cars, which allows the driver a very small margin of safety. Most accidents to pedestrians, in fact, occur within a few steps from the curb, about where people stop to look around. Never step from the curb until the way is clear, then walk resolutely across, and show no indecision after you have made sure you are safe. Of pedestrian fatalities, 20% occur while walking on rural highways, where the traffic is usually fast. Most of the pedestrians struck on tural highways are killed; only a small per cent (4.5%) of injuries occur here. Always walk on the left side of the road in order to face the on-coming traffic. When two cars are passing in opposite directions at the point where they pass you, always give them all of the road, because for an instant they are perfectly blind to everything but the glaring lights of the other car. This partial blindness may remain until 568 - AUGUST, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE some distance after they have passed, due to a limitation of the human eye in adapting to extremes of light and darkness. A flashlight or lantern should also be carried by pedestrians as an added precaution. Remember, too, that automobiles are much quicker than humans, and that as later maturity approaches, the reaction time of people becomes slower and we must revise our habits to allow ourselves as pedestrians still greater margins of safety than were necessary when we were younger. V. What Shall We Do About the Problem of Youth and Automobiles? Serious problems created by the automobile are not limited to the road. Modern youths have an almost irresistible urge to feel the sense of power which comes from driving a car. They look to privileges with automobiles as a sign of maturity even more than the change to long trousers formerly was. So strong is the desire to drive that car stealing has become one of the major forms of juvenile delinquency. Youth is often over-confident, daring, inclined to display, and to be irresponsible with property and life. The mastery of the mechanics of driving comes easily to most young people, but not so easily does good judgment and mature responsibility come. The proper approach to this problem seems to be not unlike that required in meeting most other problems of adolesence. Development of responsibility begins early in life by parents requiring children to comply with reasonable requirements, and by gradual growth through their exercising new powers and privileges. More concretely, this means that young people should begin their training in the use of the automobile considerably before they are legally prepared to drive (sixteen years of age in Utah). This should be done by an understanding father who takes every care not to "fall out" with the youth in the process of training. Training, of course, should be in some isolated place where there is little chance of accident. Encouragement for success and good example are more effective than scolding and preaching. What the youth needs is confidence based upon genuine and thorough skill and judgment. Parents are wiser not to emphasize the differences in judgment between themselves and their children. Parents should be aware that their judgment is better; but to be of service as teacher, antagonism and resentment must be avoided. In giving advice while the youth is driving, avoid excitement and distraction which result from sharp, scolding remarks. Mothers often utterly fail to have any beneficial effect on young drivers, because they have "fallen out" with their children at least so far as the driving situation is concerned. Too much nagging is especially harmful and ill-advised. Consideration for parents in the use of the automobile should be encouraged as one of the "good things in life" and an essential part of the larger problem of wholesome personality development in youth. VI. Are You a Back Seat Driver? We have seen that distraction decreases reaction speed and may thereby contribute to accidents. "Back seat driving" does this, and more. Personality conflicts between the driver and the "'would-be-driver" are likely to result. The driver may then take out his antagonism by being discourteous to other traffic. Psychologists have long contended that judgment is not so good when we are angry. Moreover, the driver seldom takes the advice of the "back seat driver," even though it be cor- "rect. There is a difference between "back seat driving," which is held in considerable disrepute, and occasional offering of suggestions, which may be compared to what has been said about attitudes that should prevail between father and son in learning to drive. "Back seat driving" is usually a failure in influencing the driver in the same way that any attempt to influence other people is a failure if it is not based upon a recognition and respect for the egofeelings of the one to be influenced. Problems For Discussion 1. What do we mean by "accident prone drivers"? Name a few types of persons who fall into this class. 2. Read Child Guidance Lesson 5, Relief Society Magazine, June, 1937, Pp. 755-58. Show the importance of the automobile in psychological weaning. 3. Show how "back seat driving" is likely to defeat its own purpose. 4. Carefully examine your habits as a pedestrian. How can you revise them in order to increase your own safety? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST - 569 References 1. Barsantee, Harry. Death Begins at 4o. Distributed free by Travelers Insurance Co., Hartford, Conn. Presents great many facts on causes of accidents, in popular and humorous style. 2. Forbes, T. W. Accidents in Traffic and Industry as Related to the Psychology of Vision. National Society for the Prevention of Blindness, 1936. 50 West soth Street, New York. Price 10¢. 3. Furnas, J. C., Smith, E. N. Sudden Death and How to Avoid It. Simon and Schuster, New York: 1935: 25c. Includes reference 5s, also two articles describing horrors of car accidents; not recommended for persons easily affected. "And Sudden Death," by J. C. Furnas, appeared in Readers Digest, August, 1935- 4. Reisner, E. J., deOnis, H., and Stolper, T. M., eds. Parents and the Automobile. 1936. Teachers' College, Bureau of Publications, Columbia University, New York. Especially good on problems of youth and automobiles. 5. Smith, Ernest N., Manual for Safe Driving, Simon and Schuster, New York, 1935. Distributed free by Glen Falls Indemnity Co., Glen Falls, N. Y. Included in reference 3. Also request a copy of the state motor vehicle laws from your highway department. &ducation for Family Li e Family Relationships Lesson 2 The Family Pocketbook THE working out of a cooperative plan for the management of the family pocketbook that is acceptable to all members of the family group will result in enhanced happiness and satisfaction in family living. Agreement in the financial relationships within the family will determine more than will any other factor the nature of all other relationships. One writer has said, "Tell me the degree of success a family has achieved in handling its financial relationships and I can predict with Surprising accuracy the degree of success which that family will be able to achieve in its social and emotional relationships." Economic conditions of today are so different from those of earlier periods and the conditions confronting each family are so varied that we must consider the problem of finance in each family as and individual case involving specific factors. However, we can select fundamental difficulties and needs which are present in the task of management of finances in every family. We can also offer some suggestions as to methods of handling income that have been experimented with by a sufficient number of families to warrant an evaluation of such practices. At this time we present only a few of those practices which are recommended on the basis that they are in harmony with the most commonly accepted philosophy of successful family life in the world of today. 1. It is of primary importance to recognize the fact that the financial status of the family is determined by the competent management of the income quite as much as by the amount of the income. Many people are poor because of how they spend rather than because of how much they have. 2. Skill and efficiency in the distribution and expenditure of the income can be acquired by every normal person who has a sufficiently strong determination and who is given an opportunity for experience in the handling of money., 3. There will be greater happiness and cooperation if there is an understanding between husband and wife that the income is their income, as each is doing the special work needed in maintaining a happy successful home. As the family increases and there are more wage earners, it makes for greater family unity and solidarity if each one earning contributes to the family budget for meeting necessary family expenses according to his ability to earl. Today, when so many young people are unable to find work, care should be taken that they are not made to feel they are a burden. Work around home should be given them so that they may feel they are a real member of the group sharing in the responsibilities and opportunities of the group. True it is that the special responsibility of the father is to provide for the satisfaction of the material needs of the family. And in turn it is the responsibility of each member to cooperate in the spending process so that full value will be received for every dollar expended. To insure against the father being considered as merely a money-making machine he should take an active interest in all the functions of the family so that he will have a sympathetic understanding of the daily affairs of family living. 4. There should be mutual understanding concerning the amount of income that is available for family living. It is unjust for any member of the family to be deceived as to the available resources of the group. Husband and wife should accept the democratic viewpoint of joint control of the income. And they should discuss with the children the financial problems of the family as far as they are able to understand. 6. Whether the income be large or small it should be budgeted. If the income is not regular, the minimum average should be taken as the basis for the budget. 7. In order to achieve well palanced spending the income should be apportioned so that each member of the group will have some money under his control. 'The proportion for each will vary according to his age and ability to assume the responsibility that accompanies the possession of money. The art of managing the family income should be developed during childhood to the extent that the child is allowed to share in the rights and duties that are involved in the problem of finance. Sound habits RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST 571 and methods of spending should be well established before the child leaves home permanantly. If such training has not been. Acquired before marriage, it will necessarily have to be obtained largely through the trial and error method. In addition to knowledge gained through their own experimentation those who are wise will seek advice and will profit by the experience of those who show evidence of skill in the control of the domestic exchequer. Take for example the case of the Brown family: Mrs. Brown says, "John dear, I just can't understand why it is that the Greens can have so many more things than we can, and I know that your salary is nearly once again larger than Mr. Green's." Mr Brown has been wondering the same thing for quite some time. At the suggestion of Mr. Brown, the Greens were invited to spend an evening with the Browns for the purpose of chatting over the subject of family finance. The Greens considered the invitation to be a real compliment, since it signified that in the opinion of other people they had achieved success in one of the most important phases of family living. Hence, they welcomed the opportunity to share with others their experiences as well as the practices to which they gave credit for what they called their "financial salvation". During the first two years of their married life the Greens incurred sufficient debt to cause them both to be in a state of constant worry and anxiety, and needless to say intense irritability. At times even their marriage seemed to them to have been a mistake. Fortunately, each realized 572 AUGUST, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the seriousness of the situation and was willing to accept his or her share of the responsibility for the condition into which they had drifted. The first task they assigned themselves was to carefully scrutinize past expenditures and present bills. 'This brought to their attention the fact that the major part of their income had been spent not for the purpose of supplying their own needs but rather to satisfy their desires to have what their friends had and to do what they did. Obviously, they were trying to keep up with a group of young married couples with much higher incomes than theirs, and at the same time they were cultivating a purely materialistic attitude toward values. In the interest of brevity, we shall say that the Greens decided to withdraw from their immediate circle of friends and to make new friends among those of their own economic class. This determination called for courage, tact, and sacrifice, all of which have been well repaid i in increased happiness. What would probably have been the wiser and more sensible solution? Next they worked out a budget which included a column headed "debts for trying to keep up with the Joneses". Their next decision was to pay cash for every article purchased unless it was an article that offered relatively permanent utility. In order to more completely establish a new set of spending habits, Mrs. Green decided that she would arrange her household tasks so that she would be able to go to the market for her supplies rather than to order them over the telephone, and that her buying list would be carefully prepared before she left home. These two practices resulted in the purchase of fewer food supplies and the serving of more adequate meals, also in increased power to resist the temptation to buy expensive, outof-season foods, and to resist the pressure of high-powered advertising and salesmanship. Trying to live within the budget soon became an intriguing game for both mates, a game in which they have succeeded to the extent that they are now enjoying the great happiness of the anticipation of the arrival of a third member in their family, the expense of which has been provided for by wiser spending and not by an increase in income. It is not within the limits of this lesson to discuss all of the seven points previously mentioned; however, it is the hope that all will be discussed in class. It is unfair to either the husband or the wife to be placed in the humiliating position of having to ask the other for money for necessities. Money for the satisfaction of needs should not be considered as a gift by either mate. If the income is considered as a partnership fund and is placed under joint control, the danger of either of the above situations arising will be eliminated. Many families who handle their income as a partnership fund have found that the joint checking account works out most satisfactorily. This is true, however, only if each mate is absolutely honest, frank, and conscientious in regard to spending and to keeping the other mate daily informed as to the amount of money that has been withdrawn from the account, and each must keep an accurate account of his expenditures. Other families have found that a division of the income according to an agreement which is satisfactory and just to each, with the major responsibility of handling the funds assumed by the mate who is best prepared to carry on this task, is a " more desirable plan. To many the word budget is a regular bugbear, either because of a misconception of the meaning of the term or because of an unpleasant experience connected with it. By budget we simply mean planned expenditures for the future based on the record of past expenditures and estimated income. Any book on family economics will give detailed instructions for setting up and carrying out the budget system. A few general suggestions may prove helpful at this time. The figures for the family budget should be decided upon by the entire family group. Begin by deciding what are the essentials for good living. Special consideration should be given to the differentiation between self-indulgences and worthy desires. Food, shelter, operating expenses, clothes, and opportunities for growth are considered primary needs. Ilies it should not be necessary to mention that the matter of tithing is also of primary importance. Personal needs should receive consideration only after group needs have been determined. The amount of money for personal expenses should be decided on the basis of the following factors: a. Total income. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST - 5/3 b. Primary needs of the group. C. Individual needs of members of the group. D. Extent to which each member is willing to cooperate. E. Social values of the group. One should face the fact that it requires determination, courage, and self-control to live within the budget, but the satisfaction that comes as a result of the elimination of family squabbles over money matters, freedom from undue pressure of individual demands, increased cooperativeness of family members will repay for the effort involved in the form of peace of mind, order in family living, and the more complete satisfaction of needs. We should not become discouraged or feel that we have failed if the budget does not balance the first month or two; practice will improve our technique. It will be of great help in guarding against upsetting the budget unnecessarily if the purchase of any costly article is postponed until the method of payment has been determined upon. The fundamental philosophy of family finance should be discussed and a plan for handling the family pocketbook should be decided upon before the marriage ceremony. Whatever the plan may be, it should not be considered static, but rather as a method to be experimented with until a more suitable plan for the particular family has been evolved. It is wise, however, to make sure that one plan has been given a thorough trial before it is discarded in favor of some untried plan. There is a plan that will work out for your family. 574 AUGUST, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Problems and Questions for Discussion 1. Work out a trial budget for a family with a $900 annual income. 2. Do you think it was wise for the Greens to give up their circle of friends? Discuss. 3. Can you justify the statement of the bridegroom who told his bride soon after they were married that he did hope that she would not object to having to ask him for money when she needed it, because it would make him so happy to give her money when she asked for it? 4. Discuss methods of joint handling of income that you know have proved successful among your acquaintances. Mission Lessons L. D. S. CHURCH HISTORY Lesson II Cumorah and the Golden Book (To be used in place of Literary lesson) IN THE vision which we have just considered, Joseph Smith was told that in due time he should receive further light and guidance from heaven. Yet three years and a half passed without the fulfillment of that promise. It was now September, 1823, and he was approaching his eighteenth birthday. How was this to be accounted for? Here is his own story: "During the time between the vision and 1823, I was left to all kinds of temptation. For, being very young, and persecuted by those who should have been my friends, I did not join any of the churches, having been forbidden to do so. And mingling with all kinds of society, I frequently fell into many foolish errors and displayed the weakness of youth. In making this confession no one need suppose me guilty of any great sins. A disposition to do so was never in my nature. I was guilty only of light conversation, and sometimes associated with jovial company, which was not consistent with that character that ought to be maintained by one who was called of God as I had been. But this will not seem strange to anyone who recollects my youth and is acquainted with my native cheery temperament. In consequence of these things, I often felt condemned for my weakness and imperfections. "On the evening of the twentyfirst of September, after I had retired to my bed for the night, I betook myself to prayer and supplication to God for forgiveness of all my sins and also for a manifestation, that I might know of my state and standing before him. For I had full confidence in obtaining a divine manifestation, as I had previously done. "While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light appearing in my room. This light continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noon-day. Immediately a personage appeared at my bedside. He stood in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor. He had on a loose robe of most exquisite. Whiteness. It was a whiteness beyond anything earthly I had ever seen, nor do I believe that any earthly thing could be made to appear so exceedingly white and brilliant. His hands were naked, and his arms also, a little above the wrist. So, also, were his feet naked, as were his legs, a little above the ankles. His head and neck were also bare. I could discover that he had on no other clothing but this robe, as it was open, so that I could see into his bosom. Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his countenance truly like lightning. The room was exceedingly light, but not so very bright as immediately around his person. "When I first looked upon him, I was afraid. But fear soon left me. He called me by name and said that he was a messenger sent from the presence of God to me. His name, he said, was Moroni. God had a work for me to do. My name should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds, and tongues. He said there was a book deposited, written upon gold plates, giving an account of the former inhabitants of this [the American] continent, and the source from which they sprang. He also said that the fulness of the gospel was contained in it, as delivered by the Savior to the ancient inhabitants. Also there were two RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST - 575 stones in silver bows deposited with the plates. This was the urim and thummim. The possession of these stones were what constituted 'seers' in ancient times. God had prepared them for the purpose of translating the book. "He told me that, when I got those plates, I should not show them to any person, neither the breastplate with the urim and thummim, only to those to whom I should be commanded to show them. If I did so I should be destroyed. While he was conversing with me about the plates, the vision opened to my mind, and I saw the place where they were deposited, and that so clearly that I knew the place again when I visited it. "After this communication I saw the light in the room begin to gather immediately around the person of him who had been speaking to me, and it continued to do so until the room was again left dark, except just around him, when instantly I saw, as it were, a conduit open right up into heaven, and he ascended until he entirely disappeared, and the room was left as before his appearance. "T lay musing on the singularity of the scene, marveling greatly at what had been told to me by this extraordinary messenger, when, in the midst of my meditation, I suddenly discovered that my room was again beginning to get lighted. In an instant, as it were, the same heavenly messenger was again by my bedside. He again related the very same things which he had done at the first visit without the least variation. "By this time, so deep were the impressions made on my mind, that 576 - AUGUST, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sleep had fled from my eyes, and 1 lay overwhelmed in astonishment at what I had both seen and heard. But what was my surprise when again I beheld the same messenger at my bedside, and heard him relate the same things as before. He added a caution that Satan would tempt me to get the plates for the purpose of getting rich. 'This he forbade me to do; otherwise I could not get them. "Almost immediately after the heavenly messenger had ascended from me the third time, the cock crowed, and I found that day was approaching, so that our interviews must have occupied the whole of that night. "I shortly after rose from my bed and, as usual, went to the necessary labors of the day. But in attempting to work as at other times, I found my strength so exhausted as to render me entirely unable. My father, who was laboring along with me, discovered something to be wrong with me, and told me to go home. I started, with the intention of going to the house, but in attempting to cross the fence out of the field where we were, my strength entirely failed me, and I fell helpless on the ground, and for a time was quite unconscious of anything. "The first thing that I can recollect was a voice speaking to me, calling me by name. I looked up and beheld the same messenger standing over my head, surrounded by light as before. He then again related to me all that he had done the previous night, and commanded me to go to my father and tell him the vision and commandments which I had received. I returned to my father and did so. He replied that it was of God and told me to do as the messenger had commanded me. I left the field and went to the place where the plates were deposited. "The hill was convenient to the village of Manchester. On the west side of this hill, not far from the top, under a stone of considerable size, lay the plates in a stone box. Having removed the earth around the stone, I obtained a lever, which I got fixed under the edge of the stone, and with a little exertion raised it up. I looked in, and there indeed did I behold the plates, the urim and thummim, and the breastplate, as stated by the messenger. "I made an attempt to take them out, but was forbidden by the messenger, and was again informed that the time for bringing them forth had not yet arrived, neither would it for four years from that time. He told me that I should come to that place precisely in one year from that time, that he would meet with me, and that I should continue to do so until the time should come for obtaining the plates. "Accordingly, I went at the end of each year, and each time I found the same messenger there, and received instruction and intelligence from him at each of our interviews respecting what the Lord was going to do and how and in what manner His kingdom was to be conducted in the last days. "At length the time arrived for obtaining the plates, the urim and thummim, and the breastplate. On September 22, 1827, the same heavenly messenger delivered them up to me with the charge: You will be responsible for them. If you let them go carelessly, or through any neglect, you will be cut off. But if you will use all your endeavors to preserve them, they shall be protected." That is the story of how Joseph Smith received the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated. Questions and Suggestions 1. In what way does Joseph's description of the angel Moroni differ from the descriptions of angels generally in his time? 2. Who was Moroni? Why was it that he, rather than someone else, was given this mission? 3. Give as many particulars as you can of the appearance of the heavenly messenger. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST - 577 4. When did Joseph first see Moroni? When were the plates given to him? How many times, so far, has Moroni appeared to Joseph? Figure out the time which the two must have been together. 5. Why do you think Moroni appeared so many times to Joseph? Why did he repeat his message so many times and in every detail? How well do you remember the details of a conversation which you have heard but once? 6. Read or sing the hymn An Angel From On High, and explain why this hymn was chosen in connection with this lesson. Note: Map printed in Juiy magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons. Attention: Farm Rehabilitation E are in receipt of a letter from Mr. C. B. Baldwin, Assistant Administrator of the Farm Security Administration of Washington, D. C., in which he states that a group of individuals in Salt Lake City is collecting a registration fee of $1 each from farmers on the representation that they will initiate a farm rehabilitation program. The form which this group is distributing refers to their proposal as a "rehabilitation plan" and suggests that Governmental aid will be obtained. The only rural rehabilitation program sponsored by the Federal Government is that administered by the Farm Security Administration. 'The individuals who are sponsoring the program referred to above have no connection with this organization. Further, under the program of the Farm Security Administration, there is no requirement that a registration fee accompany the application for rehabilitation assistance. If a farmer needs assistance from the Farm Security Administration, he should apply to the local Rural Rehabilitation Supervisor in his county, and his application will receive careful consideration. You, The Final Answer By Christie Lund Coles GOME one has said in speaking of places and people: "It isn't your town, it's you." By that I presume he meant that if you have the ability, if you measure up, you will succeed no matter where you are. There are exceptions to this, of course. There are people who have failed miserably in one place who achieve unusual success in another. But as a rule, the person who is a failure one place will be a failure in another. He is usually the type of person who says, "If I were only some place else..." Instead of doing his job, no matter how menial it is, and putting his whole heart and soul into it, he imagines that if he were some place else he would have a better job, would have things easier, would make more money. Shakespeare said: "It is not in our stars, dear Brutus, that we are underlings, but in ourselves." Our failures, our successes, our lucky breaks, are not regulated by the planet under which we were born, or by any outside force, they are within ourselves. You are the final answer of what you will be, what you will do, what you will achieve. You have only one enemy to really fear and that is yourself, the weak, fearful you that says, "You can't do it, you're not smart enough, you're not strong enough." YOU have to believe in yourself. But more important than that, you THIS FALL AND WINTER DON'T SUFFER FROM (Clothestrophobia Clothestrophobia is a malignant disease marked by a feeling of limitation and suppression brought on by not having the right things to wear where right clothes mean everything. Our reputation as specialists for this dread disease comes from years of effective and immediate cures. BE SURE TO SEE US AT THE FIRST SYMPTOMS ZCMI AMERICA'S FIRST DEPARTMENT STORE have to feel within yourself that you are worth believing in; you have to know that you have done your best, that you have gained all the knowledge you could, that you have played fairly and squarely. After all, what are you? Why, you are the sum total of everything you have done, everything you have thought, everything you have wanted, everything you have believed. You have, largely, made yourself. You can, starting this day, this hour, remake yourself. It's a competitive world, it's a hard world if you will, but it can be a world that will bow to your wishes, that will give you of its best, that will be your servant. The world is made up of people, people largely like yourself, with the same hopes and ambitions, with the same sensitive places. If I could tell you one thing that I believe would "L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!' Start YOUR Business Career This September 1 pryaees a a a: EES, | ». 5 hl QZ—-Zm<m All the Year—Low Rates of Tuition. Ask for our 'Bulletin of Information." L. D. S. Business College 70 North Main St.—Salt Lake City, Utah Hs Vow! Y; Convenient! YY ' Srexpensive! Our New, Convenient, 29 Richards Street NN is NY Inexpensive ready-made Binder for keeping your Relief Society Magazines readily accessible with a minimum of trouble. These binders are durable, attractive, and so made that a whole year's issues can be conveniently képt, issue by issue, ready for immediate reference. And the price is only $1.00 per binder! THE DESERET NEWS PRESS Salt Lake City, Utah Prompt Attention Given to Mail Orders and Inquiries 580 - AUGUST, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE go the farthest in helping you succeed, it would be: Learn to know people, learn how to get along with them, how to make them like you and trust you; and the doors of opportunity will open magically before you. Knowledge is important. Learn you can but don't think that is all that is necessary, because more important than making a material success is making a personal success, being liked, making your mark on the hearts of people. You can succeed. You have it within yourself. You can go as far to do your job the best possible way, as you will and dare to go. The learn all you can about everything final answer is YOU. Electri Ti 4 her po", | servants Vitamin Ky = re 'A ® Work for lowest wages— = @ i — WHOLESOME and DELICIOUS Méver Soe good for you, because it helps build good teeth and strong bones. Ae A Product of THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS off" — Enjoy Better Living With Cheap Electricity See Your Dealer or— Utah Power & Light Co. -UNDERWEAR Newest Improved Patterns For both Men and Women we have served you now for 39 years—can be purchased as usual SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 South Main Street 1939 Samples and Prices sent FREE on Request Fisher's Bread is good—and is ® Never ask for "a daz Will You Join Them? They'll be back on the campus in September... Registering in the various schools for training that will lead to great achievement in "the world's work." Registration Dates 1939-40 September 20th. English and Psychological Examinations: 2st, Engineering Examination; 2lst & 22nd. Special Instruction and Registration of Freshmen; 25th, Registration of Sophomores and Upper Division; 26th, Regu'ar Class Work Begins. Write for Catalog UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY x, THE COLUMBIA ey. ENCYCLOPEDIA In One Volume Published by Columbia University Press ® @ WRITTEN from the American viewpoint. Contains articles on a large number of subjects which are omitted entirely from other works. No expense has been spared in making this encyclopedia durable, handsome, and easy to use. Set in clear type, printed on fine paper and bound in sturdy reinforced buckram. 40,000 words of new material just added to bring it completely up to date. The Boston Herald says: "Ranks with the great encyclopedias in scope and authenticity and DESERET BOOK COMPANY = When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine exceeds them in usefulness." 44 East South Temple $17.50 Salt Lake City, Utah FREE TO GIVE HER CHILDREN A HAPPY NORMAL FAMILY LIFE... The Outcome of a BENEFICIAL INCOME a " HSS ites as ili he SURAN J. Grant, Pres. SPECIAL BUS for Literary Dept. Lessons at Reduced Relief Society Prices In order to assist Relief Society Teachers and Members to carry on the excellent Literary Lessons outlined by the General Board, we made special arrangements with several of the leading publishers of the country to furnish these books at greatly reduced prices. This is your opportunity to secure copies of these splendid books for your home library. Lorna Doone |... Eects$1.00 The Talisman.......1.00 City of the Bells.......2.00 Robinson Crusoe........1.00 Advance of the English Novel................ 1.25 Log Cabin Lady........1.25 Count of Monte Cristo........................ 1.00 Star of the West... 1.00 Romance of an Old Playhouse.............. 2.00 We also carry a complete stock of Roll Books and other Relief Society Supplies. Our stock of Books is the largest in the Intermountain West. DESERET BOOK COMPANY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah English and Scotch Wools FOR CRISP AUTUMN AND WINTER DAYS Wools that are leaders in carefully selected patterns. Leaders in authentic colors... In superb quality. $5.98 to $9.50 yd. Beautiful Forstman and Botany Woolens in Dress Suit and Coating Weights. $1.49 to $4.98 yd. Silks and Woolens Dept.—Street Floor Sketched imported / Scotch Woolens, 54 in wide. $7.50 yd. Wi - The Great Intermountain Store Founded 1864 15 THE TIME for Latter-day Saint youth to prepare for future success through efficient training in a distinguished University. This month another school year begins at the Church University, and those who take advantage of it will find their experience both inspirational and profitable. FIVE COLLEGES APPLIED SCIENCE ARTS AND SCIENCE COMMERCE Registration Dates, September 22, 23, 25, 1939 Write for a Catalog to: The President BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY "The Friendly School' at Provo, Utah EDUCATION FINE ARTS The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XXVI SEPTEMBER, 1939 No. 9 Contents Special Features Frontispiece—Interlude Grace M. Candland 582 "No Excuse For Thee, My Son"...Donald G. Lyman 583 The Homemaker of Tomorrow...........Vivian Minyard 585 Opportunities For Youth........Irvin S. Noall 588 Help Our Missionaries Grace S. Colton 592 The Relief Society and the Welfare Plan Ezra C. Knowlton 603 Good Taste in Home Decoration.......A. Fisher 606 Facts Speak.......622 Fiction Prove: Mc Now............Marguerite J. Griffin 595 Grand Lady............Elinor B. Allen 609 The Shining Heart (Cont'd) 20...Sibyl Spande Bowen 618 General Features Grace Abbott 22..George Gardner 600 ABA Woman Eateth ................. Ellen Day 614 Annie Wells Cannon 615 Editorial: Frances E. Willard.....................616 Builders in Action …Bessie E. Redding 621 Notes to the Field 22.2... Cocoon. 624 Notes from the Field.....Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary 625 Mormon Handicraft—Highlights ……Nellie O. Parker 629 Music Department—The Conductor And The Organist............ Wade N. Stephens 630 Lessons Theology—Matthew The Publican…. 631 Messages to the Home—Befitting Speech.........634 Literature—''Personal' Recollections of Joan of Are? Oo....636 Social Service—How Does Propaganda Affect Me?........639 Family Relations—My Responsibility to My Mate.................643 Mission—The Ancient Plates…. 647 Poetry September …..Olive W. Burt 581 ….. 20Grace M. Candland 582 chewing Bush 22... Olive C. Wehr 605 Vesta P. Crawford 613 Beatrice K. Ekman 617 Courtney Elizabeth Cottam 650 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once. Giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. SEPTEMBER COMES He came downstairs this morning, washed and clean; His hair slicked back and dripping; his new tie, So carefully adjusted, quite awry; His shoe strings fastened; all his eager, lean Young body fully clothed. With sober mien He ate his breakfast hastily, one eye Upon the clock. I watched him with a sigh For I recalled how other days had been— Those summer days, when he had run quite free And naked, but for trunks, from dawn till dark; Had splashed in brooklets or had climbed a tree, Had sung and whistled, noisy as a lark. Uncharted days, so poignant to remember! I wished that it had never come September! —Olive W. Burt. INTERLUDE A purple haze now clothes the distant hills And creeps across the valley far below, _ Where golden wheat shocks standing row on row Await the gathering. Soon winter's chill And biting winds and heaps of drifted snow Will come. But we will feel secure, and dream Of work well done, of frozen field and stream, And rest content beside the firelight glow. We, too, lay up our treasures for the time When nature's slowing forces weave their spell Of memories when we were in our prime. Then all our fruitful years conspire to tell The age-old story all may understand, Life's lovely interlude is now at hand, aecrare M. Candland. The Rehef Society? Magazine Vol. XXVI SEPTEMBER, 1939 No. 9 _ No Excuse For. Thee, My Son"' By Donald G. Lyman.... "Now my son, I would that ye should repent and forsake your sins, and go no more after the lusts of your eyes, but cross yourself in all these things; for except ye do this ye can in no wise inherit the kingdom of God." wayward son Corianton. As there are many phases of Faith there are also many things to be said of Repentance. Some people have been lead to believe that they may transgress almost any law, then repent and find themselves on the same spot on the path of eternal progression as though they had not transgressed; some may even feel that they will be ahead, having indulged in some of the so-called broadening experiences of life, which in the stricter sense come under the head of transgressions. +s was Alma's counsel to his There are some young men and women with good church backgrounds, some who have even had the opportunity to fill missions, who take the attitude that this life is one of experience and that to know good and evil they must experience everything possible and then choose the good and build an upright character on the foundation of actual experiences. 'This attitude is wrong; it is one of defense and excuse. The person, though knowing better. Is seeking to rationalize and to justify his conduct and his inability to live up to the laws of the Gospel. Brigham Young said: "Tradition has taught us that the great purpose of religion is to prepare people to die; that when they have passed through a change of heart and become converted, they are ready for glory at any moment, and to dwell with the Father and the Son in the heavens to all eternity. This is a mistake; for they have to improve, become substantially changed from bad to good, from sin to holiness, here or somewhere else, before they are prepared for the society they anticipate enjoying." (Journal of Discourses.) The road of Sin is downward in every sense; there is nothing uplifting in any of its ramifications. The path of Righteousness is continually upward and elevating. If the downward road is taken for ever so short an interval, one finds himself at a lower level, and steps must be retraced before one can arrive at the point where he departed from the path of Righteousness. N the 82nd section of the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord reveals that, "Unto that soul that sinneth shall the former sins return." 584 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE This presents another light on the idea of conducting ourselves contrary to the revealed word of the Lord in an attempt to get experience. In the same section He says, "For unto whom much is given, much is required; and he who sins against the greater light shall receive the greater condemnation." Another element that should not be overlooked is that the effect of sin and wrongdoing is never (in this life at any rate) left completely behind, even though the Lord has promised us that under certain conditions He will remember our sins no more. Alma could never forget that "he had gone around with the sons of Mosiah seeking to destroy the church of God". The Lord had sent an angel to cause a right-about turn in Alma's life, and his services from that time on were acceptable in the sight of the Lord, but Alma carried always the regret that he had sought to destroy the churcli of God. Paul, great missionary that he was, could never forget his part in the persecution of the saints. So let us not deceive ourselves. We can never leave the effects of our wrongdoing entirely behind. OLIVER COWDERY wrote nearly every word of the Book of Mormon as it fell from the lips of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He received the Aaronic Priesthood with Joseph at the hands of John the Baptist; he was the first to be baptized in this dispensation; he received with Joseph under the hands of Peter, James and John the Melchizedek Priesthood; he was one of the three witnesses to whom an angel presented the plates of the Book of Mormon, and he heard the voice of God concerning them. He was called of God to be the first preacher and first Elder in the Church. However, with all this background and rich experience, Oliver Cowdery was excommunicated from the Church because several _ serious charges against him were sustained. Some ten years afterward at a special conference held at Kanesville, Iowa, October 21, 1848, presided over by Orson Hyde, Oliver Cowdery said, "Friends and brethren, my name is Cowdery, Oliver Cowdery. In the early history of this Church | stood identified with her and one in her councils. True it is that the gifts and callings of God are without repentance; not because I was better than the rest of mankind was I called, but to fulfill the purposes of God." Shortly afterward before the High Council he said, "Brethren, for a number of years I have been separated from you. I now desire to come back. I wish to come humbly and to be one in your midst. I seek no station. I only wish to be identified with you." Oliver said that the gifts and callings of God are without repentance. What is to become of our particular gifts and callings if we cast them aside or cover them up while we follow along a worldly path? Re pentance at the end of the road will not restore our gifts and callings, as they are without repentance. We shall have to retrace our steps to attain our former station, and we shall ever be conscious of a great loss of time and corresponding advancement that might have been ours. The Homemaker of 'Tomorrow By Vivian Minyard Extension Specialist in Clothing University of Idaho Agricultural Extension Service O other profession occupies the attention and efforts of more people than that of homemaking. Every homemaker should strive to do the best possible job and be the highest type of individual. She should have certain ends to achieve and thereby develop her personality. The following worth while aims are worthy ones for consideration: 1. She should always look her best. 2. She should have outside interests. 3. She should be willing to accept other people's viewpoints. 4. She should improve her outlook through good reading. 5. She should take care of her health. 1. She should always look her best. The adornment of the human body is one of the oldest arts. One never goes through a museum without seeing something which has been used to adorn the body. This may be an ancient costume, a bit of jewelry, footwear, etc. The Greeks, 5,000 years ago, used cosmetics of various kinds. The only difference between now and then is that they are now available to everyone, and at that time only a few could have them. So it has always been a natural desire to want to look one's best. The first requirement is to know one's own figure. One individual looks her best in ruffles and frills, and another looks better in tailored, plain costumes. The dainty, feminine type requires different clothin than the active, athletic type. Clothing should always be selected for the individual rather than fashion, for it tells much about the wearer. The highest compliment one can receive is to be told that her dress looks like her. After knowing one's type, the second step in looking one's best is to plan carefully as to color, style, etc., so new purchases will look well with the wearing apparel already on hand. To be well dressed one needs to consider the entire effect, which is much more important than details. Clothing should be selected for the occasions for which it is to be used. Good grooming is a very important factor. To be well groomed at all times implies respect for those who have to live with us and look at us. Good grooming is merely the intelligent use of information about the care of the person and the clothes one wears. Good grooming results in self-respect, better poise, more self-confidence, beauty, and is the first requirement in style. Any homemaker owes it to her family to look her best at home as well as out in company. A pretty dress, well fitted and suitable to the wearer, helps make living more pleasant. The smartest looking dress will do nothing for the person who neglects the fundamental principles of cleanliness and neatness. One needs to care— "Oh, I could talk for an hour," said Nell, On the psychic basis of dressing well. It isn't a question of pocketbooks, It isn't a figure, it isn't looks, It isn't going to first-rate places, 586 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Believe me, the thing has a psychic basis. It's caring—caring a terrible lot Whether you're right, or whether you're not."' —Alice Duer Miller. The attractive individual has good posture. Good posture indicates self-confidence and poise. Good posture is restful. One might think of posture as being "position of body". Therefore, it pertains to sitting and lying positions, as well as standing. Every minute the body is being shaped, whether one is sitting, reading, washing dishes, sewing or driving an automobile. The person with poor posture can never look as well in her clothes as one with good posture. Everyone can, with persistent effort, improve posture by taking exercises. There are hygienic, spiritual, economic and social values in having good posture. Organs in the body cannot function properly if in a cramped position, which results in poor health. Without good health all other values are lost to a great extent. There are several factors which may be the cause of poor posture; namely: Malnutrition, overfatigue, carelessness on the part of the person in not using all muscles, wrong mental attitude, poorly fitted clothing, foot arch trouble and defective eyesight. Any individual with poor posture should determine why, and then make an honest effort to correct it. Those with good posture should always strive to keep it. The one who looks her best has a ready smile. The memory of a smile lasts forever. Leave a smile for those who have none left to give. *Verse from Dress Design and Selection, by Marguerite Stotts Hopkins, Macmillan. 2. She should have outside interests. It is an absolute necessity, for every homemaker to have outside interests. These may vary considerably. For some, it may be church work or community work of some nature. Others have hobbies for their outside interests. Everyone should get more joy out of life, and the happiest people are the ones with hobbies. Great people have hobbies so they can completely lose themselves and forget their work. The hobby should be as different as possible from regular work. Each individual must make his own choice of hobbies. Some may wish to collect things, and others will want to learn facts about something in which they are particularly interested. Any one of these makes for a more interesting individual and gives one an opportunity to work out original ideas, which is valuable in itself. - One should not confuse a hobby with a fad. Many great inventions have been the result of hobbies. Photography, the electric motor, the telegraph, the typewriter, the sewing machine and others were invented through "play". A 3. She should be willing to accept other people's viewpoints. One's views are more valuable if the other fellow's point of view is understood. From others come the greatest lessons. An individual should not mind criticism, but rather, profit from it. If it is justified, do something about it and make a better individual. If it is ignorant, say nothing. If it is untrue, merely disregard it. If it is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 587 unfair, show strength of character by refraining from irritation. She should improve her outlook through good reading. Every homemaker should plan to have some time for reading. It is through reading that one is able to understand other people and appreciate their prob- -lems. The understanding person ls a good citizen. It has been said that no man is poor who possesses a good book. It might also be said that no man can be lonely among books. A variety of types should be read: Autobiography, fiction, travel, poetty, etc. All have their place. Michelangelo, it is said, once stood in contemplation of a block of marble on which he was to begin work, in rapt thought as to its potentialities. "Within you," he said, "there is both beauty and ugliness. Which comes out depends on the sculptor." What comes out in the individual may be greatly influenced by the reading one does. The individual, like the plant, either grows or withers. It is the duty of each homemaker to keep growing. 5. She should take good care of her health. Health is of vital importance to every homemaker and should not be neglected, ever. It is more than being free from sickness. Health means having enough vigor, endurance and enthusiasm to make life worth living. Physical, mental and spiritual health are each important and dependent on each other. Proper food and personal habits must be obeyed to make for good health. The individual should get *The American Soroptomist. Knowledge, then understand it, accept it and practice it. Bodies vary greatly as to strength and endurance, so it is necessary for each person to know his own possibilities and then strive to maintain them. Recreation should be considered in connection with health. Everyone should have a few minutes daily to do something for themselves. Clothing, in relation to health, needs careful consideration. The homemaker whose feet hurt because her shoes are poorly fitted and not suitable has a difficult job. As each homemaker works toward developing her personality, she will profit by keeping in mind the following thoughts suggested by Marshall Fields of Chicago as being worthy ones to remember: The value of time, the success of perseverance, the pleasure of working, the dignity of simplicity, the worth of character, the power of kindness, the influence of example, the obligation of duty, the wisdom of economy, the virtue of patience, the improvement of talent and the joy of originating. Personality is that which distinguishes a person and makes him stand out as different from someone else. It radiates when one has a natural, easy, unafraid and alert manner, a pleasant, happy disposition or outlook, a fresh, well-groomed appearance, a costume which emphasizes desirable features and good posture. The personality of the homemaker is reflected in the home and community. The stability of the nation depends on the security of the home and community. +Published in National 4-H Club News, Chicago. Opportunities for Youth By Irvin S. Noall Supervisor of Industrial Arts and Occupational Education, Salt Lake City Public Schools THE question of "what one can use for money" begins early with children these days, but the question of what one can do to earn money and the larger question of what kind of a job to look for and where one can find that job are problems that worry parents and that become serious to youth about the time of high school graduation. It is becoming more difficult for youth to observe adults at work or to get miscellaneous job experience as a basis for the selection of a vocation. Also, the population has overtaken the undeveloped western domain, so that today the problem of surplus labor has become large. This creates another difficulty for youth; namely, that competition has become keen and only the best qualihed get jobs. The training of the new worker is now an important factor of cost, and the employer who sees the ultimate necessity of young people learning to work and who desires to help in the process is placed at a disadvantage by his competitor who takes the worker only after he has learned enough to become an asset. When children went to work at 14 or 15 years of age, often their earnings were only three or four dollars a weck. Today when they demand twentyfive cents or more an hour and still have to learn the business, they are definitely a liability. These problems of labor surplus, limited opportunities for work experience and observation, delayed employment, and demand for higher wages, have created a new situation which business and industry are not prepared to meet. Youth are becoming restless and discouraged, law enforcement agencies are much alarmed, and parents are justly concerned. The answer is not to be found in more police officers, nor does it lie in more recreation centers, though these are an aid. Society, collectively and individually, must recognize the new situation and meet it in an intelligent way. 'Two lines of approach are open to us. One consists of the study of human wants and abilities to consume and the adjustment of production and distribution machinery to meet demands. When this problem is properly solved, it will become a relatively simple matter to lengthen or shorten the working day to effect a balance between more goods, more work and _ less leisure on the one hand; or less goods, less work, and more leisure on the other hand. This problem is now before us, but will hardly be satisfactorily solved this side of the millennium. The other problem is that of guidance and training of youth to meet the new situation. The answer to neither problem is an end in itself, but each will be an aid and a supplement to the other. Both problems are being attacked, and progress is being made in both fields. The remainder of this article will be devoted to the present opportunities and accomplishments for the guidance and training of youth. It is understood that this phase of the problem is not concerned with unemploy- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 589 ment, as such, but that it does offer a partial solution to unemployability. The finding of the right vocation offers the first obstacle. Most people can learn to do a great many things reasonably well. The problem of which occupation to try raises three major questions. The first is the level of the job. Not all persons can reach the level of the professions. To attempt to do so means disappointment and sorrow for those not fitted. Also, it is a human waste when talented people content themselves to work at menial tasks. One's job should be stimulating and call for the best one can do. Social position and unwise ambition of parents for their children cause the most serious errors in the level of vocational selection. Examples of this sort may be found in most families and in every neighborhood. It is better both for the individual and for society for one to be a good blacksmith or farmer than a poor lawyer or doctor. The second error lies in the appraisal of special talents. It requires an exceptional voice and superior tone discrimination to be successful in music; if one Jacks manual dexterity it would be folly to attempt dentistry, the machinist trade, or dressmaking; the shy person will encounter difficulties in salesmanship. The third major error in vocational selection is to ignore opportunities for employment. During the past twenty years there has been a great increase in high school enrollment. The lack of work opportunities has led many to improve their time by attending colleges and universities. Often this is for culture and general education, but usually the student feels the need of a job and takes training for a profession before leaving. When less than eight per cent of our wage earners are now in the professions, it is obvious that the much larger per cent which goes to college cannot find opportunities in these fields. Similarly, since the advent of commercial aviation, every boy aspires to be an aviator, or at least an aviation mechanic. A study of this field will show that there is not employment opportunity for one class of twenty students a year in the entire state of Utah. 'Training too many in selected fields results either in the student's moving out of the state or in his giving up his field of training and shifting to some other occupation which may or may not utilize the preparation received. THE Vocational Center and Adult School in Salt Lake City are attempting to meet these difficulties by providing a counseling and training service. Hundreds of boys and gitls in their late teens wel early twenties have been helped to appraise their talents and abilities and to survey the employment opportunities in an effort to obtain occupational adjustment. The previous school record is carefully studied in an effort to find elements of strength and weakness. Any employment experience is investigated for possible clues. Then a series of aptitude and occupational tests are given to determine as nearly as possible learning aptitude, motor coordination, finger dexterity, spatial relations, color blindness, emotional adjustment, etc. The resulting profile helps to see the possibilities of 590 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the individual in relation to those of other people and is used as an aid in counseling the student in the interview which follows. The number to train in any occupation requires careful study. 'To train too few may deprive someone of a chance to work. To train too many not only results in unemployment but also in the demoralizing of wage rates. To better determine numbers and other aspects of training, an advisory committee is organized which consists of representatives of employers, employees, and the school. This committee studies available data from the United States Census, the state employment office, and from employer and employee experience in getting jobs or finding qualified help. When the annual labor turnover is known, the number needed is not difficult to figure. It would be an ideal situation if the needs of all occupations could be ascertained and training provided for every need. Where many workers are required, many classes could be established, and these could be located in several communities. Where very few are required it would be possible to provide only one class for a state, or perhaps one class for several states. Naturally, occupations where demand is greatest are selected for the establishment of local training opportunities. It is contemplated that for 1939-40, Salt Lake City will offer day trade or pre-employment classes for carpenters, cabinet makers, millwork, machinists, auto mechanics, electricians, printers, sheet metal workers, plumbers, body and fender workers, upholsterers, stenographers, bookkeepers, and salesmen for store and specialty work. These and various other classes will be offered also in evening school for those who already have work. Similar opportunities, in lesser variety, will be provided at the Utah State Agricultural College and the several Junior Colleges. In Salt Lake City, students who have been approved by the counselor and coordinator may enroll in suitable pre-apprentice classes where they are taught the fundamentals of theory and practice of the trade. The instructor is a practical tradesman selected for his superior character, personality, and standing in the trade. The training course is based upon a careful review of what the worker needs to know to get and hold a job. It is anticipated that all students will be placed at the end of one year of training, but it is also planned that those who are not ready and those who cannot work for want of labor demand may continue into the second year or until such time as they are ready and are needed. This flexibility, together with the various precautions implied in counseling and acceptance, gives high assurance of employment to all who enroll.
It is not possible to teach all of a trade or to develop a high degree of competence in a school room. Judgment and skill are acquired in subsequent apprenticeship and in further technical training in evening school. To assure placement and progress of the learner after employment, school coordinators maintain close contact with the trade, advising with employers, observing employees, checking on the shortcomings of previous training, and advising on possible improvements. This close coordination of school and work and close follow-up and counseling of the young worker after training are the secret of the fine cooperation being received in Salt Lake City and will be found indispensable in any successful training program.
It is anticipated that boys and girls who have made a wise selection of a vocation and who have received training and work experience as outlined above can and should equal the best American and European craftsmen. They will know the what, the how, and the why of things. They will have an open mind, a studious attitude, and a capacity to adjust to the rapid changes in employment. They will soon be the backbone of American industry.
SINCE the economic well-being of both individual and state is tied up in the occupational competence of the people, and since competitive industry will not carry the burden of training and cannot do it effectively, it is fitting and proper that at least initial job training, as well as the subsequent technical training which may be required, should be provided by the public training agency, namely the public school. The Federal Government made such a decision in the establishment of Agricultural and Mechanical colleges. In 1917 it began the policy of directly subsidizing vocational training on the high school level through the passage of the Smith-Hughes Act. This was expanded and enlarged in 1936 in the George-Dean Act. The State of Utah accepted these grants and made partial matching appropriations to further the work. It is still required that students contribute a share because of the limitations of tax funds. In Salt Lake City such fees for the day trade school, which operates five hours a day through the school year, is $30. The evening school fees are approximately seven cents per hour in addition to the cost of the supplies used.
That the public is responding to the opportunity is evidenced by enrollments. Many who attend trade classes move into the city or take room and board. Evening students drive to school from as far as forty miles and will not miss a session even though they have done heavy labor all day. A good trade school record is becoming the best recommendation for a job, and a good evening school record is the most effective recommendation for job promotion and security against depression unemployment.
The provision of opportunities for additional fields of training to meet the needs of youth and industry will wait upon public demand. If the people want and are willing to pay for more service, it is theirs for the asking. Their recourse will be demand upon local boards of education and the state legislature. We are beginning to learn that occupational training through the public schools, supported by taxation, is cheaper and better than can be had through private resources, and that counseling and training hold the key to the solution of one of the two great problems facing youth as they move into adult life and responsibility.
Help Our Missionaries By Grace S. Colton
FROM observations in the Missionary Home and in the mission field we find that girls as well as boys are lacking in a knowledge of how to go about cooking a simple meal or washing a few clothes, the necessity of the daily bath and clean linen, and the art of making a bed and keeping a room in order.
Health is the most important factor in a missionary's career. Upon it everything depends. It is important that missionaries realize the importance of this and have a thorough knowledge of how to keep well. A clean and healthy body always gives spontaneous cheerfulness, joy, and a sense of well-being. One can think more clearly, quickly and deeply when one's mind and body are one with health. Goethe said, "What a man does not understand he does not possess." Self-possession is something of which no one can rob us. Therefore, if we have a knowledge of what we should do and what we should avoid in maintaining health, we possess, to an extent, that something which Christ spoke of when He said, "The truth shall make you free". Certainly we are free to enjoy a happy, rounded life when we have good health. Because of illness, many of our missionaries are not doing as efficient work as they could do, and some have to return home.
Now what could mothers do to assist their boys and girls before they leave home? They could advise them to take a course in school for a few months in the art of cooking, or teach them in the home how to cook simple, wholesome meals. Prospective missionaries should be taught how to select the right combinations of foods, so that the body will have the proper daily proportion of minerals and vitamins. One great difficulty is a lack of knowledge regarding the amount of each food to purchase for, say, two or four persons, so that there will not be any waste. They should be taught that it is harmful to eat the same foods day after day without change and variety. For instance, one young elder was heard to say, as he came in from a hard day's tracting, "My stomach revolts against vegetable soup or pork and beans; that has been our daily diet for the last six months. What wouldn't I give to put my feet beneath my mother's table and have a daily square meal!"
Often canned foods are purchased because they are cheaper than the fresh, are cooked, and easily prepared. However, we learn from those who have studied this important question that canned foods lose some of the food values. Heat in some cases has removed some of the nourishing elements. Fresh vegetables and fruits are more wholesome. In this day and age we can find fresh vegetables and fruits in the markets the year around, and on the farm they are stored in cellars. If a missionary knows how to prepare these, health is more assured.
Water is a very essential element of the body, and many of us do not drink enough of it. We should not depend on our thirst as an accurate guide. We should drink our daily six or eight glasses, or one glassful daily to each twenty pounds of body weight.
From another quarter we hear, "Oh, we have dandy, good appetizing meals. Elder X is a better cook than a woman. He sometimes threatens to let us go hungry if we do not take our turn, but so far he has been a good sport and cooked the meals." Elder X is an exception. He was a boy who had been taught by a wise mother that all honest work is honorable and that cooking, washing and cleaning are not sissy jobs.
MANY of the missionaries have to wash their own clothes while they are away, and they leave home without the slightest idea of how to go about it. We find this to be true because of a number of instances which have occurred in the Missionary Home. For instance, a number of elders decided to wash their soiled clothes. Without asking for assistance, they concluded it would be a simple task; they had seen their mothers doing the washing in the home, and it had seemed so easy just to put hot water in the washer and throw in the clothes. They proceeded to do this very thing. It was unfortunate that they had not observed that mother had always cut up the bar of soap, and that she had sorted the clothes. One boy suggested that they put in some soap; so a bar was thrown in, and then socks, colored pajamas, white underwear and white shirts were put in, all at the same time. The washer went merrily on for some time. Then it was opened, and they proceeded to take out the clothes. Nothing looked natural but the socks, and it was a sorry group of young men who asked what could be done about it.
The missionaries have to make their own beds and keep their rooms tidy. There is an art in making a bed, and it is a simple art that any boy or girl can master. We see some beds, however, where it looks as if the spread had been dropped from an airplane and had fluttered down and settled on top of the bed. Such a bed makes a room look very untidy. Shoes, suitcases, ties, etc., should have a place and be found always in place.
A girl or boy is judged not only by how he keeps his room but by his personal habits and appearance. A daily bath is very essential. Missionaries are always walking, exercising, attending meetings, getting warm and perspiring, and a bath is not only refreshing but invigorating. A clean body, fresh linen and cheerful surroundings result in self-respect.
In one of the missionary groups, one of the elders could cook a meal and was proud of it, could do a washing equal to any woman and tidy up the washroom afterwards, putting everything in its place. Also, he displayed with pride a pair of socks he had darned. His mother had provided him with a sewing kit, thread, needles, buttons, scissors and a large black satin apron to wear when at his work. He is going to enjoy his mission for his body will be kept well nourished, and he will not worry about doing the little essential tasks that come each day.
A young woman who had been doing splendid work and was very happy and had written enthusiastic letters to the home folks, later began writing discouragingly, and her mother asked why the change. A letter came back telling about her new companion. This companion had refused to take her share of the duties about their small apartment, and she was very untidy and unclean about her person. She would leave things all about the place and sleep beyond the time when she should have been about her tasks. Wherever this girl went, she made it unpleasant and embarrassing for her friends and companions. She had not read, perhaps, what the Prophet Joseph Smith said: "Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated."
WE do feel, we missionary mothers, very proud of these boys and girls and want to do the things that will help them most in caring for their health and well-being. We have faith in them, and we must teach them to have faith in themselves. No one else can breathe for us. No one else can keep our heart beating. We must eat nourishing food and digest it ourselves; and because we must do these and many other things ourselves—things no one else can do for us—it is necessary for us to have faith in ourselves, faith in our capacity to go on until the work we have to do is done, ever mindful that everything we do, or shall do, is motivated by religious faith. We should never exist an hour without exercising it. Faith gathers up life, pulls it together and gives it direction. Let our boys and girls possess knowledge of important useful things and always remember the prayer of a good man who said, "Eternal Father, who has equipped the arsenal of our souls with weapons which we have barely used, forgive us all and send us out to walk more intelligently and powerfully by faith."
Prove Me Now By Marguerite Johnson Griffin
IT was Saturday night and pay day, but Bruce Boynton's face bore no signs of joy and pleasure at his home-coming. Despair lay upon his features making worry lines into deep furrows. He had no kiss of greeting for his wife, and he passed his little six-year-old son, Bobbie, without a word or a touch. The little fellow's smiling face lengthened, and he stood speechless in wide-eyed amazement, silenced by the austere expression of his father. Something was wrong. Even a child could feel that.
Alice, the mother, waited too. She understood the despair which so often gripped her husband's heart. It was financial problems, a diminishing salary which was becoming more and more difficult to expand over their needs. If only Bruce had the Gospel for comfort at times like these. That was the thing she always felt, for to her it was a bulwark, a refuge, in which she became refreshed and made more able to cope with her problems. But as yet Bruce had never seen fit to join, though he studied and knew the doctrines as well, she felt, if not better than she. Perhaps some day—
Her eyes were silently watching every movement. Every pay day was very similar, except that the man's discouragement deepened. He pulled forth two wrinkled ten dollar bills from one pocket and placed them on the table. Then from another he extracted several slips of paper which he threw in a crumpled heap beside the money.
"There's a light bill, a gas bill, a statement from the doctor. There's the bill for the wood, and the rent is due in a week," he said bitterly. Then he laughed ironically. "And there's two ten dollar bills. Stretch them over if you can. However, you must remember they're just paper, not rubber."
"Don't, Bruce," cried the woman, putting her arms warmly around him. "We'll get by. It'll take care of the lights and the gas. I saved some out last week to apply on the wood, and I think with that we'll have enough. Next week we'll pay the fifteen dollars for rent, and the following week we can pay the doctor five. We'll get by."
Bobbie had slipped quietly and unnoticed into the next room.
"But who wants to get by?" thundered the man. "We want to get ahead."
"Everybody's in the same boat, Bruce. It isn't just us. If it were, we might complain. As it is, we've got each other and Bobbie."
"Bobbie! Where is the kid?" the man remembered suddenly. "I forgot all about him."
"Here I am, Daddy," the child said seriously. "Here's a penny. I couldn't make any more come out of my bank, but you need some money, so I want to give you a penny, 'cause I love you so."
The little boy's devotion completely softened the man's heart. "Bless you!" he said, and crushed the small boy to him.
"Here, Daddy, take it," insisted the child, not to be put off.
Such unselfishness and thoughtfulness were overwhelming to the man. Such a noble, manly little son he had! The father held him back at arm's length and looked proudly at the solemn little face whose earnestness could not be denied. Such generosity was a priceless thing and should be cultivated. So accepting the copper piece he said, "Thank you very much, son."
It was one of life's exquisite moments, and the mother, watching, read the loving desires which filled her husband's eyes. She knew what he was feeling. She knew how he would like to be able to lay the good things of the earth before this child's feet and her own as well. She knew the frustrations which rose up to torment the man's soul. What chance did a man have today to build up a heritage for his family?
"Dear Bruce!" thought the woman. "If you could only see. If you could only know that there is a gospel which provides for mankind a heritage which is above all price, and in which both rich and poor have equal chance." But the pain which was filling her husband's eyes now was more than she could bear, so she severed the tension abruptly.
"Get ready for dinner," she urged them, forcing her mind and her attention to return to the preparations for the evening meal.
Bruce went to the bathroom to wash and clean himself up. He carelessly laid the penny upon the window sill, while the incident slipped from his memory as his problems crowded in once more upon his attention.
EARLY in the evening, shortly after Bobbie had gone to bed, two Ward Teachers called at the house. This was an unusual occurrence for a Saturday night, but they had been asked to fill out some ward membership survey cards, and they were trying to get their task completed in order that they might hand the cards to the bishop the following day. Brother Martin and Brother James were very surprised to find that Bruce Boynton was not a member of the Church, and they said as much.
"For a non-member, you are outstanding in your attendance at meetings. You seem to be one of our old stand-bys. You attend every activity. Surely you are planning shortly to join our ranks?"
"No-o-o," Bruce drawled slowly. "I have no such plans as that. Alice enjoys her meetings. I have no church of my own, so I enjoy going with her. But I think it's best to leave things just as they are."
Brother James, the elder Teacher, now assumed the role of spokesman, and he voiced a question which on some occasions might seem very blunt, but his voice was gentle and earnest.
"Do you believe Mormonism to be true?"
"Of course he does," Alice answered eagerly. "He's read our doctrines from cover to cover." She turned her clear, studious eyes full upon his face. "You do believe it, don't you, Bruce?"
The man smiled affectionately upon his wife. "Well, in a way perhaps I do. Yes, I do believe that it has the most to offer of any church."
"Then why," persisted Brother James softly, "why do you not embrace it?"
"Oh, I don't know," shrugged the man.
"Yes, you do," insisted the elder Ward Teacher. "There is something about it which bothers you. Perhaps we can help. Tell us what it is."
In the presence of this gentle earnestness Bruce could no longer envelop himself in self-restraint. "Very well," he said. "I doubt if you can help me, though. You see, I've read everything on it that I can find, but I still can't swallow the doctrine. And I want to believe it, too!" The man's voice was strangely tense. "I do want to believe Mormonism! There is no use for me to join if I can't live it, and I'd like to be able to live it as my wife would have me do."
The room was silent while all waited for Bruce to continue. Alice's eyes were fastened anxiously upon her husband as if the very fate of her life hung in the balance.
"But there's one thing I'm not converted to, and that is the payment of tithing. I figure if I can't whole-heartedly accept that, I had better remain a non-member than become one of those members who must constantly be admonished to do his duty."
"I see," mused Brother James. "That is a very honorable attitude, but what is there to tithing that you can't accept?"
"Everything," answered Bruce with spirit. "I make only $20 a week. That is not enough for a man with a wife and child to live on. It is only because of Alice's careful management that we have as much as we do. We get by. But there are doctor bills which have come along in the seven years of our marriage which we have never been able to keep up with, and other bills which we have had to pay by small installments, just as we can. Don't you see? We don't make enough to cover everything as it is. Therefore, I can't see how a just God would demand ten per cent of that meager income from us. Why, that would be two dollars a week, eight dollars in a month, more than we are ever able to pay all at once on our doctor bill. We couldn't manage. It would be impossible."
Alice looked expectantly at Brother James. If only he could say something to convince her husband, how willing she would be to try to manage on the smaller amount. She had told him all too often, but he had only kissed her brow and insisted that a just God would not expect it of her, that she had to do without enough as it was.
Brother James was speaking again, very gently. "Perhaps it might seem so in the light of cold reasoning, but we must not fail to remember that it is a commandment with a blessing, you know."
"I know," Bruce countered quickly. "I can quote it: 'Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it.' Brother James, you can tell me nothing about it that I do not know. I know what it is, how it was substituted in these latter days for the United Order which was first practiced in the early days of the Church. I have spent hours, days, trying to understand it." The man ran a large hand through his hair as if the thought wearied him. "But so far I cannot accept it. What does money mean to the Lord? He with His power does not need it when the whole earth is His already, when the elements themselves would obey the command of His words—"
"You have such faith in His power," murmured Brother James softly, "yet you cannot accept His words that blessings will be returned to you an hundred fold?"
"Do you think," Bruce argued quite heatedly, "do you think a Supreme Being like God would treat man so like a child as to say: 'If you pay Me this money, I will give you blessings—'?"
"But man is, after all, a child."
"Granted. But the whole thing seems based on superstition to me. The Perfect Father would not bribe His children. The Perfect Father would not accept pennies from His impoverished children, for our dollars must be as paltry to Him as our children's pennies are to us."
Elder James' lips refrained from further argument, and disappointment laid its hopeless blanket about the cold shoulders of the young woman. It was hopeless, utterly hopeless. Bruce would never see the light. It was hard to shake off the despair which had come once more from the shadows of her aching heart. So, shortly after the visitors left, she said she was tired and went to bed, because she needed to cry only a little, and in the darkness Bruce could not see. He, too, was glad to have her retire, for then he could let his face relax with the weariness and despondency which he was too exhausted to hide from her penetrating eyes any longer.
IT was quite late when the man finally bestirred himself and went into the bathroom, as was his nightly habit, to scrub his teeth. And there he saw it again—saw upon the window sill the small round copper penny which he had placed there so carelessly a few hours before. Automatically he picked it up, fingered it a moment, while he thought lovingly of the small blond boy who had bestowed it so whole-heartedly upon him. Then his steps moved into the living room, and he went up to the mantle where stood Bobbie's small penny bank. It was a very cheap little metal bank, and the paint on it was scratched by the hard usage of childish hands. Without hesitation he placed the coin over the slot. Then he separated his fingers and the penny dropped into the bank with a clink which resounded throughout the still room.
There was something joyous in the ting of that clink! Something so resonant that it sang into his very soul! It set his heart hammering with jubilance. It set his pulses racing. It set his mind free, and it drew away his blindness. Now he could see the thing which had troubled him. Now he knew and understood.
"Indeed we are as little children," he thought, "even as Brother James said; when we pay tithing our good Heavenly Father eventually slips it back into our penny bank, even as I slipped back the penny which little Bobbie so generously gave me. There is no superstition about it! It is reasonable! It is natural!"
His soul sang within him. "Prove me now, herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing!" The words raced through his mind as though borne on a breeze which was sweeping away all ugly doubts and fears.
"I do not need to prove Thee, Heavenly Father," he prayed. "I know now. I understand how it is. I thank Thee."
The next evening after sacrament meeting Bruce said to Alice, "Wait a moment. I have something to see to." She watched him go toward the Ward Clerk's desk, and she wondered what his intentions might be. Slowly she followed him and arrived at his side in time to hear him say:
"Two dollars tithing for Bruce Boynton."
The Ward Clerk had been busy writing numerous receipts as the tithe payers had encircled his desk after meeting. He had been writing and receiving money so fast he had scarcely looked up at any of the contributors, contenting himself by speaking to them with head bent over his work. But now he paused suddenly and raised his eyes.
"Brother Boynton? And you're not a member—" he breathed, while a wave of radiance swept over his features.
"But I will be as soon as it can be arranged," Bruce promised.
The Ward Clerk rose to his feet and clasped the man's hand. "Congratulations, Brother!" he said earnestly. "May the Lord bless you and your wife!"
Alice was now at his side, and her small hand had crept into her husband's free one and lay there quivering with an uncontrollable joy. She could not speak for her soul was so full, but her thoughts winged a grateful prayer: "Thank you, Lord, for this blessing which is so great there is scarcely room in my heart to receive it!"
"THE supreme benefit of tithing is not the money it brings to the church. It is the joy, the contentment, the individual personal happiness it brings into the daily life of the tither. To these the money standard does not apply. They can be neither weighed, measured nor counted, yet these and not the money are what God cares for. His glory is enhanced by the happiness of His children."
Grace Abbott By George Gardner
"The golf links lie so near the mill That nearly every day The laboring children can look out And see the men at play." —Sarah Cleghorn.
STUDENTS of history are quite agreed that one of the greatest contributions of Christianity is the better life for women and children. The Master said that He came to this world that we might have life more abundantly. In the light of this truth, Grace Abbott has been one of America's foremost crusaders for Christianity and has rescued for women and children many of those things Christianity wishes for them. Women and children should know something of this great woman who has secured for them an increased part of the blessings of life and has shielded them from many of the hardships. No advancement in civilization stands more to America's credit than the improved condition of its women and children.
Miss Abbott's early education was secured in Grand Island, Nebraska. This was more than a school education in the common sense of the term. She secured an education in justice, for at that time her father took part in some of those early social movements that secured more of the benefits of modern progress for the common people. As a girl, she went to the little red school house; as a young lady, to Grand Island College and the University of Nebraska, and later she attended the University of Chicago. There, in the school of political science and law, she laid the foundation of a career which enabled her to protect the rights of innocent people.
While in Chicago, she was attracted to Hull House where she became acquainted with Jane Addams and Julia Lathrop and their great humanitarian work. Here Miss Abbott with her legal knowledge was largely responsible for the organization of the Immigrants' Protective League. This Organization was one of the first to protect immigrants from unscrupulous people. These she has described in her book, The Immigrant and the Community. Later she became Executive Secretary of the State Immigration Commission of Massachusetts and also of Illinois, where she continued to be a friend to strangers in a strange land. This Organization not only corrected many grave wrongs, but it did much to advance Americanization work.
Her training in Chicago, both at the University and at Hull House, was important in the life of Miss Abbott. Her scholastic training enabled her to work efficiently and effectively; her contact with Hull House stimulated those humanitarian traits that gave her the driving force and the spirit of a crusader. It was here that she first directed her efforts toward the problems of child health and child labor, the fields of her later greatest usefulness.
THERE are no subjects in all America on which public opinion has changed more than it has on the problems of child labor and child health, and Miss Abbott was a central figure in this educational campaign. This educational work required a tremendous amount of time, work, patience, wisdom, and cooperation; it required integrity and sacrifice of many of the personal things which give flavor and richness to life.
Through the efforts of Miss Abbott and her associates, the National Child Labor committee was formed in 1904. In 1909, President Roosevelt called the White House Conference and recommended the establishment of a Children's Bureau in the United States Government. This bureau was created in 1912 by an act of Congress and was authorized to investigate and report upon all matters pertaining to the welfare of children among all classes of our people. This was one of the first public agencies in all the world given the responsibility of supplying facts with reference to child life as a whole and is one of the most humanitarian movements since the beginning of the Christian era.
The Bureau disclosed facts at once to show that the death rate among children and mothers was disgracefully high. It called attention to the seamy side of efficiency in business that led to the use of women and children as though they were machines. Miss Abbott saw the tremendous cost of that type of efficiency and knew that none can escape the harmful effects of such treatment of women and children.
In 1917, Congress passed the Child Labor Law, and Miss Abbott was chosen director of the Child Labor Division of the United States Department of Labor. This was a position of great advantage, for it enabled her to see even more clearly the situation of children. She found associated almost everywhere poverty, child labor, illiteracy, illness, misunderstanding and delinquency. She saw that the cost of widowhood was being borne by little children. In 1920, more than a million children between the ages of ten and sixteen were being employed in the mills, in the factories and in the fields. She realized that this was a great waste of youth and a great cost to the nation in spiritual power. Her position placed her in close touch with the strong advocates of the Child Labor Law in the states. These persons she enlisted as her allies in an educational campaign for a better life for children, which has gone steadily on.
The declaration that the first and then the second Federal Child Labor Laws were unconstitutional must have been a severe blow to Grace Abbott. A lesser stateswoman would have given up the fight. Not so this great champion of childhood; with increased energy she struggled anew for a constitutional amendment. Though the Child Labor Law has not yet been ratified by all of the states, the work of Miss Abbott and her associates, for she did not work alone, has borne good fruits throughout the land, and women and children everywhere have reaped benefits. Many fine state laws have grown from the good seed sown in the campaign for the National Child Labor Law. Provisions for safeguarding the health of children, care for dependent and neglected children, increased recreation facilities, greater efficiency in prevention and correction of juvenile delinquency, increased school attendance, and other equally important things have grown from the crusade of Miss Abbott and her associates; they accomplished indirectly what they appeared to fail to do directly.
Regarding her work in the interest of children, Miss Abbott said of herself: "Sometimes when I get home at night in Washington, I feel as though I had been in a great traffic jam. The jam is moving toward the hill where Congress sits in judgment on all the administrative agencies of the Government. In the traffic jam are all kinds of vehicles moving up toward the Capitol, all kinds of conveyances, which I have not even the vocabulary to describe. But they all finally reach the hill, and they make a plea that is a very old plea. The Army says to Congress, 'Give, lest you perish,' and fear as a motive produces results on a scale which leaves the rest of us feeling very envious of the kind of eloquence the Army and Navy command....
"I stand on the sidewalk with a great deal of timidity watching it become more congested and more difficult, and then because the responsibility is mine and I must, I take a firm hold on the baby carriage and I wheel it into the traffic. There are some people who think it does not belong there at all; there are some people who wonder how I got there with it and what I am going to be able to do, and there are some who think that the baby carriage is the symbol of bolshevism instead of the home and the future of America....
"They call me impatient, perhaps I am. I've said again and again, the only time we can save the babies who are going to die this year is this year. If we wait until next, they will be dead. The future rests in the hands of the children of today. What we do for them now is going to determine not only the future of the United States but the future of the world."*
MISS ABBOTT was appointed chief of the Children's Bureau, United States Department of Labor, in 1921. In 1923, she served as unofficial observer for the United States on the advisory committee of the League of Nations on traffic in women and children. Just five times in the past half century has the National Conference of Social Work elected a woman as president. Miss Abbott was one of these; two others were Jane Addams and Julia Lathrop, her beloved associates. In 1931, a national poll chose Grace Abbott as one of America's twelve most distinguished women. In 1934, she resigned her position as chief of the Children's Bureau to become Professor of Public Welfare Administration in the School of Social Service at the University of Chicago, a position which she held until her death. June 19, 1939, saw the passing of a wise leader, a woman trained in handling social problems with foresight and balanced judgment. Her service in the field of public welfare, characterized by concentration upon the problems of children, entitle her to her position as one of America's most distinguished daughters.
*From Adventurous Americans, edited by Devere Allen and published by Farrar and Rinehart.
The Relief Society and the Welfare Plan By Ezra C. Knowlton
"She had an understanding with the years: For always in her eyes there was a light As though she kept a secret none might guess— Some confidence that Time had made her heart. So comely did she bear the weight of pain, With such serenity accept the joy, It seemed she had a mother love of life. And all the days were children at her breast."
The inauguration of the Church Welfare Plan by the General Church Authorities three years ago found the Relief Society ready and prepared to fulfill its very important part. Sustained by a background of nearly 100 years of continuous and illustrious history in the field of true Christian service, it stood ready to begin this new and important activity.
What a remarkable background of preparation it has had, which might be divided into four great epochs: First, its birth unto a people struggling for recognition and the right to organized existence in the world. Its early years were tested in the crucible of persecution, mobbings and drivings. Second, its coming into maturity during that eventful pioneer period when the people, though separated by kindly distance from human foes, were called upon to make almost superhuman sacrifices against nature's relentless forces. Third, its important years of preserving and upholding the high standards of womanhood during the period of the coming of economic security and comparative popularity accompanied by the disintegrating elements of spiritual and moral Tin inauguration of the Wel- —Scudder Middleton. Breakdown which always follow. Finally, our day, when it has been marshalled into the great and complex field of social service in the whirl of a confused economic world, where, in the midst of plenty, want, suffering, frustration, and discouragement stalk the land. From the beginning the Relief Society has been committed to a twophased mission, representing the loftiest heights of Christian idealism —a mission first of relief to the poor, the orphan, the sick and the needy; second, and of great importance, a mission of spiritual support and uplift to the discouraged, the wavering and the tempted. Never failing, never flinching, this great Organization of women has kept aloft its noble banners through the colorful vicissitudes of nearly one hundred eventful years. In the days that are ahead, as this great Church Welfare Program unfolds and vastly greater opportunities and like responsibilities appear, the women of the Church of our day should ever keep in mind the glory of that background and, sustained by its power and stimulation, meet the new challenge. In order to combat effectively the 604 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE complicated and serious economic and social conditions existing today, the Church Authorities called into the field of social service, or social welfare, all the great forces of the Church organization for an attack upon all fronts. Without a fundamental change in organic form, this undertaking has been launched with closely coordinated organization between the various Priesthood quorums, the man power of the Church, and the Relief Society, the woman power of the Church. This has extended from the head down through the stakes and wards. The Regional Unit IN order to group the stakes of the Church into units, in so far as possible, of economic self-sufficiency, Regions were created, the Salt Lake Region being typical. This Region comprises sixteen stakes located in Salt Lake, Davis, and Tooele Counties and contains 143 wards and branches and approximately 120,000 Church members. Presiding over this large unit is a Regional Council, consisting of stake representatives from each of the following groups: Stake Presidency Bishop's Council, Chairman of Relief Society Presidency Male and female Work Directors Agricultural Committee A Regional Co-ordinator acts as executive officer. For efficient correlation and stimulation of activity, monthly Regional meetings are held at which, after a short general session, intensive, well planned departmental sessions are conducted by the five groups above named. Important plans and programs, requiring time and special study, such as various agricultural, fruit and vegetable canning projects, group hospitalization, general housing and temple apartment-housing plans, the production of meat, dairy, poultry, cereal, soap, and wood products, and other project activities are assigned to quorum, ward, stake and Regional committees. Serving on these are men and women especially trained in each field to make thorough investigations and reports. The important policies and programs adopted by the Regional Council are carried by spoken word as well as by written proceedings back to stake and ward welfare units for placing into actual operation. Economic SELF-SUFFICIENCY IT is fundamental that in order to efficiently realize the objectives announced by the Presiding Authorities of furnishing life's vital necessities to the needy faithful members of the Church and employment to those otherwise unemployed but able to work that, up to the very limit of the natural resources of our land, we must produce within the Program those elements of food, clothing, fuel, and shelter which are needed. Projects are, and must continue to be, put into operation that will produce these things. "Program Produced Commodities" must be the slogan. The Program Produced Commodity index must be raised higher and higher in order to accomplish the twin vital aims of furnishing employment and achieving, as nearly as possible, economic selfsufficiency within the Program. It is readily seen that in order to carry on a complete program as out- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 605 lined, in our present-day world of economic confusion and uncertainty, there must be brought into action all those elements of production, distribution and consumption of the necessities of life which characterize our complex social and industrial life. In order successfully to do this all the quorums and organizational power of the Priesthood of the Church must be called upon. THE MISSION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY WITHIN this complex social welfare program, the work, the mission, of the Relief Society is undiminished. It is enlarged in scope and effectiveness. Its work, intelligently co-ordinated with the Priesthood agencies of the Church, places in its hands new tools, new aids, new powers. It is responsible for searching out and investigating all cases of need and correlating this work with other existing agencies; for the preparation of carefully and intelligently considered family budgets adapted to each case at hand; for planning food and clothing projects 'as required; for the important mussion of teaching mothers in their homes thrift and the conservation of family resources, and the thousand other large and small things which make up the art of true Christian homemaking and which only a woman's hand and a woman's heart can accomplish. All these are just the temporal services to which must also be added the larger service, that of looking after the spiritual welfare of the women of Zion. And so the Relief Society, as a most important agency in the Welfare Plan, arm in arm with the Priesthood of the Church, will go on and on to greater destiny. "Some there be that sow the seed and reap the golden grain; And some there be that buy and sell, and find therein their gain; And some do build with skillful craft; and some with curious art Do paint or carve; and some do sing. So each doth do his part. And some there be—most blessed these— to deeds of mercy given; And some do heal the sick, and some do lead the way to heaven." —Sarah Louise Arnold. THE BURNING BUSH By Olive C. Welir God spoke to Moses In the burning bush long ago, And now each autumn I think each flaming bush aglow A memorial stands; And in it God's whisper low The waiting heart commands. Good Taste in Home Decoration By I. A. Fisher SINCE the beginning of time, man has been the victim of his environment. His limited knowledge left him helpless against the overwhelming forces of his surroundings—forces over which he had no control. For his first shelter, man utilized caves formed by Nature or those made by wild animals. Later, bamboo, grass, or skins (whichever was easiest to obtain) served as his protection against his enemies. With man's gradually widening vision came the use of clay, cloth, and stone; following these came lumber, glass, and paint, bringing with them the first degree of individuality and the first semblance of civilization. But always limited materials, slow transportation, climatic and social conditions controlled him. If his social life was warlike, his home became a fort. When it was restricted to frontier isolation, his home became a storage and manufacturing center and, at times, a shelter for his livestock. With the advent of the industrial age, his home often became a crowded hovel in a near-by tenement. Within the last few years, man's emancipation has been phenomenal. Fast and inexpensive transportation has brought the products of all the world within his reach. Chemistry and science have provided innumerable new materials for him to choose from, as well as hundreds of wonderful conveniences for his enjoyment, so that today he stands ready to build alinost as he pleases, the only force controlling him being his own good or bad taste. For ten years following the World War, 1919-29, there was a comparatively fast growth of ideas and technique among the world's leading designers, particularly in America, Sweden, and Germany. Through experimentation and exchange of ideas and information, they developed an entirely different approach to designing. They were unanimously convinced that copied designs were inadequate for our times, since earlier designers not only. Lacked the technical knowledge, materials, and tools of today, but their creations were always the result of some personal like or fad, rather than that of applied fundamental rules of art. They definitely felt that almost all decorative objects then in use were in reality historic pieces that belonged in museums rather than in the homes they were in. So they began what will be, no doubt, the most beautiful and important period of design in history. This new modern designing was so drastically different that it was impossible to imagine it receiving general public approval. Since it would not mix with existing designs, and large scale changing being impossible, it received only mediocre acceptance. To make matters worse, many inexperienced, insufficiently trained designers flooded the market with poorly designed articles, which were accepted by most people as fads. And although designers, manufacturers, and distributors were wholeheartedly enthusiastic, sales were slow and tremendous losses were incurred. In their fevered attempt to find what the public wanted, period in- Simplicity, harmonious lines and balance are represented in the above picture. While most of us cannot build new homes or completely refurnish our present ones, this picture suggests the beauty that is achieved through unadornment and proper arrangement. The plain mirror above the fireplace, reflecting the opposite side of the room, gives an impression of spaciousness. Fluences were again resorted to, and we had another series of bad designs taken from the Directoire, Renaissance, early American, and Swedish periods. While these were modified and much better looking than their earlier appearances, and while they partially fit into the existing decorative schemes, they still were and are revolting to the artistic mind. MODERN design has such power and value that it will continue to grow. Each day new streamlining will be applied to modern living. A greater appreciation of art, beauty, and simplicity will grow until finally everyone will be frecd from these age-old atrocities. The basis of modern design is simplicity—in fact, it is the basis of almost everything we do. For years, men have preached that simplicity is the secret of all success in life, but only recently have they applied it in any degree to their daily life. One of the fundamental rules of modern design is that of Variety, achieved through contrast. The rectangle is more interesting than the square. The uneven sides of a rectangle produce contrast, while the even sides of the square give it a monotonous appearance. The probJem of variety in design is to obtain the proper balance: A house can be too tall or too squatty for its width, windows too large or too small for a room, colors too numerous for a pleasing effect, and so on to the very smallest detail. In planning a house, it is important that wall spaces are not broken with too many recesses, too few or too many small or even areas, wall niches, small windows. Fora simple illustration: If one wall is to be broken up into three areas, the center one for a fireplace or bookcase, it should take approximately so per cent of the space, with each side 608 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE space about 25 per cent. If it is to be broken into two areas, one should be 60-70 per cent and the other 30- 40 per cent, according to the spacing on the other three walls. Countless homes could be improved immensely by enlarging one window, filling in a window, wall niche, transoms over doors, or removing wall lighting fixtures so that proper contrast of wall spaces would result. The good taste or ability to determine the proper amount of contrast is inherent in most people. Those who do not have it can easily acquire it by a little observation and study. Multiplication of this rule of contrast gives "Variety", which is the relationship of groups and series of groups to each other. The second principle of design is Marmony of Line. Just as a rectangle is more interesting than a square, so a circle is more beautiful than a square. The lines of a square meet in direct opposition at the corners, while the circle flows in one continuous and harmonious sequence. It is this principle that accounts for the sweeping lines of modern streamlining, for the popularity of round mirrors, for cornerless modern furniture. In the function of these two factors of design—Variety and Harmony of Line—we encounter a third principle called Balance. Balance determines the relationship and proportion of mass to space and can be achieved in four ways. First and simplest is a symmetrical balance. This is the use of equal mass or masses on each side of the center. The second is an informal balance, achieved by two small masses balancing a large mass, such as a small window and door on one side balancing a large window on the other. Third is the balancing of a large light mass by a small heavy mass, such as a spot of bright color balancing a large pastel area. The fourth is offcenter balancing, or the moving of the fulcrum. 'This makes possible the balancing of a small light mass with a small heavy mass. For instance, the roof of a house may be equally important with the walls; but inside, the upper two thirds of a room is less important than the bottom third. Under this rule, three times as much mass can be crowded in on the lower third of a room because of the optical off-center. In approaching the problem of decorating a room, the total area, called "volume", should be considered in its relationship to the "mass" (furniture) and "space" (where there is no furniture). The different shapes that the mass takes are called "forms". Where form, mass, and space have the proper relationship to each other and to the volume, then a pleasing appearance results that conforms to the principles of art. Things to be avoided in planning a room are: A vacant appearance (too little mass), a crowded appearance (too much mass), a spotty or monotonous appearance caused by too many pieces the same size, too many horizontal lines, bad groupings of pieces too near the same size, or contrasted too much in size. If these problems are eliminated, then one has only to choose the forms, textures, and tone values to express his own taste or personality and to have a perfect modern home. Grand Lady By Elinor B. Allen MARTHA MEIKLE pushed her heavy body through the shoppers on Second Avenue, droning "Chronicle —-Evening Chronicle". Her strident voice cut through the street noises like a fog horn. "All about—'" What was that about the eye doctor now? She stopped short to read the story, the crowds veering sharply from her bulk to the right and the left. The wind tore at her straggling hair, flattening the graying curls against the scars on her cheek. Then her keen eyes softened into concern as she tried to span the two blocks that separated her from blind Johnny Carter. She plunged crossways through the traffic, not stopping till she stood by the rough box that held his papers. "Are you calling your headlines, like I said, or just mooning about that girl again?" she scolded, to hide her worry. Her hand rested on his shoulder for a moment. "And don't forget, you'll be having dinner with me tonight. It'll be mulligan stew and served hot, as it should be." Later in the evening, when the stew had been eaten and the pair of them were resting comfortably, Martha told her big news. "Tm going into the magazine business, Johnny," she said. "I've spoken for the Hole-in-the-Wall, that bit of a place down on Post Street, with the sliding windows. I'll have candy and gum, too. It's $800 I have in the savings, to begin with." "I’ve no doubt it will be a success," he answered heartily. "Martha," he asked suddenly, "what do you look like?" Martha's hand flew to cover the dark scar on her cheek. Even yet, she could not bear the memory of what that scar had cost her. A chilly evening, and two lovers sitting together. She had jumped up to prepare a bit of lunch and in her confusion had poured gasoline into an oil stove. There had been an explosion and wicked flames had licked her face and hands with disfiguring tongues. Never would she forget that the sweetheart who had loved her beauty so much had later been driven from her by the sight of the scars he could not look at. "Oh," she said, "I'm just a wind-roughened woman with the strength of a man." "But your eyes must have some "Eyes, 'blue like the flax' ''—the phrase came unbidden out of the past. "Hair, brown, and fuzzy sometimes," she humored him. "Too modest," he scolded. "I'll finish: Cheeks like roses, skin like flower petals, hands capable and kind." She closed her fingers to hide the scars. Why was it that men must always have beauty? "I would paint your picture if could." There was bleak longing in his tone. "Yes, and it would end up in being a cartoon, I judge." Her voice changed. "Talking about eyes, I was reading about some famous eye doctor right here in the city. Maybe he could help you. Johnny, you must ask him to try." But Johnny shook his head, his 610 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE face drawn with discouragement. "I did try, from one end of the land to the other, till my money was all gone. It's no use." "But this one might be different," pleaded Martha. ""And—and, what about that girl?" "She stopped caring long ago. We broke off entirely." "And what did you do that for?" demanded Martha indignantly. "Because it was the only thing to do. There's quite a difference' between being a successful artist and a —blind beggar," answered Johnny. Martha nodded. Scars for him, too. But all she said was, "So I suppose she married someone else and lived happily ever after, worse luck to her." "I don't know," dully. "She went traveling with her aunt. That was three years ago. Well, good night." He arose abruptly. "I don't know how I would fare if it were not for you, Martha." "Wait a minute, Johnny. I still think it was your fault about that girl. And you didn't answer me about the doctor." "It was not," he retorted, "and I'm through with doctors." "But I'm not," said Martha to the empty room. WHEN it came to doctors, there was only one Martha knew. She poured out her story to Dr. Davis as he bought his paper, and he scribbled something on a card for her, with an address. She lost no time in her search for the famous specialist, but it was after five when her solid feet took their way across the soft carpet of Dr. Tolman's office. She held Dr. Davis' card before her like a charm, but she hesitated as she saw Dr. Tolman talking to a very lovely girl. "The doctor's sweet on her," Martha decided. "And I don't blame him, though he seems a bit oldish for her." As the girl smiled and left the room, the doctor swung around, and the atmosphere grew icy as he tapped the desk with Martha's card. "Your errand?" he asked crisply. Martha gulped and told her story. He was utterly bored. Sorry, but his calendar was too full now. Her heart sank, but she must make one more effort. She planted her broad hands on the smooth desk. He saw the scars and winced. Immediately she folded them in her lap. "I didn't mean to do that," she said. "I hate them, too. They lost me a lover. And Johnny's eyes lost him his girl. I was hoping you'd help him. I know about your skill. And it wouldn't be charity. Will you, please?" He shook his head. Then Martha saw the girl beside him again, curious and interested. "T heard you. Why don't you see this man, Chandler? I know you could bring back his sight. And think, if you could give back that girl to him!" Martha held her breath while he considered her indulgently. "Well, we have to encounter a certain amount of this. At any rate, I'll make an examination. Bring the young man to the General Hospital at nine tomorrow morning." JOHNNY scoffed at the idea. "So his girl thinks he can bring back my sight, But did he promise RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 611 that?" he pinned her down. "How could anyone promise that?" Then she flared, "but you're going to be there tomorrow, if I have to call the police to get you up." Things happened so fast the next morning that Martha felt helpless. For the first time in her life. They bundled her into a small waiting room while the examination was being made. Then came the doctor's decision to operate immediately. Then more waiting, while she twisted her hands in an agony of suspense. Suppose the doctor failed! Then suddenly her spine prickled as she saw. Them wheeling Johnny, blanket-covered, back down the hall to histoom. What had happened in that small, ether-filled room? Utter, stark fear took possession of her. In the days that followed she hurtied from paper selling to the hospital and back again. Dr. Tolman was cheerful but promised nothing. Johnny was tense and silent under the growing strain. Once Martha blurted out nervously, "I know what—it's that girl. If we could find her." "Never mind about that girl," said Johnny peevishly. "If I see again, that will be time enough to look for her." Martha wiped her eyes with trembling hands. Why, oh why couldn't they know now whether or not he would have his sight again? "A miracle, a miracle," she whispered prayerfully. The doctor hurried in, and Martha moved back to make room for him. She noticed with pleasure that the girl she had seen in the office was with him. Maybe she could cheer Johnny up. "Either Dr. Tolman is highly pleased with what the examination shows, or else," thought Martha, "it's the girl." "Tomorrow they'll come off, Carter," he said. "Then we'll know for sure." As an afterthought, "I've brought you a visitor—Miss Kennedy." As the girl took Johnny's hand impulsively, Martha saw him quiver and straighten up in his chair. "I asked Dr. Tolman if I might come," her lovely voice was filled with friendliness. "He is so proud of this case that I believe he thinks as much of his own success as of what it will mean to you." Martha smiled at the doctor's pretended indifference. But what was the matter with Johnny? "What is your first name?" he was asking. "Nona—Nona Kennedy." She studied his bandaged features. A petrified silence followed, then a cry of amazement, "Johnny! Johnny! Blind! Oh, how long has it been this way?" A kind of bewildered glory spread over Martha's broad face. Johnny's girl, at last! Breathlessly she listened. "A year and a half, Nona, since I went into the dark completely.... I didn't want you to know." "Not know? Why?" she demanded. A warm flush was spreading over Johnny's face. "It wouldn't have been fair to hold you to a blind beggar," he said simply. "Everything I had went with my eyes—my work, my money, my future." Martha leaned forward tensely. "So that," said Nona, "was why you quarrelled with me!" 612 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "I thought your Aunt Laura would explain it to you. I — I couldn't hold you to a promise that would have made you miserable for life." His voice was low.
Nona laughed hysterically. "So that explains Aunt Laura's generosity. A whole year of travel—to make me forget! And when I came home you had disappeared completely; traveling, too, someone said—and never a letter."
"Traveling, yes, from one doctor to another, until there was no more money and no more hope, and so, no more traveling."
"I'm glad I've found you again," she clung to him. "Especially if I stay blind."
He pushed her away. "Do you know what I've been doing this winter, Nona? Selling papers on a street corner."
Her lips quivered. "But after this you won't. He is going to see again, isn't he, Dr. Tolman?"
HER voice and manner changed suddenly. There was a strange troubled look in her golden brown eyes. It was then that Martha saw how the doctor was staring at Nona, as if ready to burst. And at the same moment she saw the big diamond Nona was wearing on her left hand. Poor Johnny!
The doctor picked up his case. "Another twenty-four hours will tell the story," he said with reserve.
"You see, Nona," came Johnny's voice. "He promises nothing. But I would like to know—just in case... Are you engaged to someone else now?"
There was no answer. Martha came a step closer. She could see the doctor's hard eyes and Nona's flushing helplessness.
"Nona?" pleaded Johnny. Then, "Nona, Nona!" His voice rose frantically. "Are you there? Martha, has she gone?"
Suddenly Johnny sprang to his feet, jerking at the bandages. "I'll find out for myself," he shouted.
The doctor jumped toward him, pinning his arms down until the fit of rage subsided. "It's no use," babbled Johnny incoherently, "and you know it, Nona. That's why you don't speak."
Battle light raged in Martha's eyes, but before she could open her mouth, Nona said timidly, "Could I help you, Doctor?"
Dr. Tolman turned on her in fury. "Haven't you stirred up enough mischief already?" he rasped. "Do you know—or care—that if a strong light should strike his eyes, the vision might be destroyed entirely? After all I've done, then you must tear down my work like this! What about me? Nona, are you listening to me? What are you looking at?"
Nona was sitting on the window ledge, her head bent, studying something intently. For an instant she met the doctor's furious eyes, tiny barbs of anger darting from her own. Then she wet the tip of her finger in her mouth and began rubbing it slowly up and down the side of her leg.
"A run in my stocking," she said calmly. "I snagged it on this." Martha tiptoed closer. Nona drew the diamond ring off, slipped it into the doctor's hand, closing it firmly. "There. You keep it. I'm a little afraid of it."
Then, head up, she went to Johnny. "No, Johnny," she said clearly, "I'm not engaged to anyone, unless it might be you." Her hand was holding his, tightly.
Martha's face wrinkled into tenderness.
"Doctor," Johnny's voice thrilled strangely, "if it's only a matter of hours, would a small trial now hurt so much?"
"I would not advise it," Dr. Tolman began formally. Then his tone changed, "but I'm going to risk it. You might as well see the proposition you are letting yourself in for." He glared at Nona, "and I wish you happiness."
He darkened the room carefully, and as he lifted the lower edge of the gauze slowly, complete stillness fell. Johnny moved his head, searching, stopped.
"Nona," his voice broke, "you're beautiful!"
Martha let her breath go in a huge sigh of satisfaction.
"So may I be judged by my face. Triumph lit the doctor's face. He was suddenly generous. "A perfect success." He was replacing the bandages. Johnny stopped his hand.
"Martha?" he asked.
Like a flash, Martha turned her head. This was no time for scars.
The bandages descended. "It's going to be a side view, Martha, when I paint your portrait," said Johnny. "The profile of a grand lady!"
Martha scrambled toward the door in confusion. Dr. Tolman followed, laughing. By now, Nona's hands were back of Johnny's head, drawing him close. And as Martha took one backward look, she saw his arms go tightly about his girl, as he felt the radiance within her.
Out in the hall, Martha stopped for one dazed moment. "Glory be," she whispered in awed tones. "A profile portrait of me! And the way he said it, it's going to be good!"
SEPTEMBER By Vesta P. Crawford
Now she shall be alone The morning through— For all the eager feet are gone, Pattered off to school.
The mother shall see the morning Beam across the sky— She shall stand listening, And wonder why.
As a Woman Eateth By Ellen Day
MAY dropped a penny in the slot, heard it tinkle like an impish laugh, and watched the wavering indicator until it stopped.
"Seventeen pounds in a year! You hit it exactly," the voice of the laughing Imp seemed to say in her ear. "Just as the magazine article said— a few extra calories each day not used for repairs or growth or energy, and you get seventeen pounds in a year!"
"I don't eat much!" May thought defensively.
"No?" queried the Imp. "Now think. Three meals every day. Fine. Remember Sunday afternoon when you sat alone reading? Remember that salad and cake left from dinner? And the candy bar? You stopped eating it as you read about the seventeen pounds—but you didn't stop long."
"I don't like good food to waste!"
"Oh, yeah? A couple of romping, growing, hungry children would surely have let it waste! And with them it wouldn't be three seconds in the mouth, three hours in the stomach, and forever on the hips!"
"Can I help it if I take after my father's people?"
"Can't you help it if you eat salads and cake and candy after dinner, and oranges and apples and milk after supper? Remember the Sunday School boy's talk on the Word of Wisdom about eating sparingly?"
"He twisted it! It's only meat the Word of Wisdom says to eat sparingly."
"So you want seventeen extra pounds a year!" the Imp jibed. "Your Patriarchal blessing says you'll live to a good old age. Won't it be nice to come up on the resurrection morning looking like Aunt Patty? Remember how she dripped over the edges of a chair when she sat down? And she was always sitting down. You're getting that way, too. Tired all the time, when your weight is on your feet!"
"Sarah told me after Relief Society that she'd never seen me look so well."
"Yes, and asked if you hadn't been putting on weight! She didn't mean well. That was just her tactful way of saying fat."
"Sunday night Eva raved about how slim I looked."
"Sure! In that black dress you made with lines of white all down the front. And why did she rave? Because you look slim so seldom! Do you want to wear nothing but black with long white lines forever? There's one way to look slim in any style or color!"
"But I can't exercise it off! Exercise makes me hungrier!"
"Bears don't exercise their fat off. Hibernate. Live on yours a while."
"Starve? Go on some crazy diet and ruin my health?"
"No. Go on, will power," the Imp advised. "Remember the girl's two-and-a-half-minute talk about people conquering the tobacco habit by faith and prayer and will power? A convert who has done that sat next to you in church. She conquered the nicotine habit. The only habit
(Continued on page 652)
HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon
SEPTEMBER — Vacation over, one takes up the tools of labor with renewed vigor. "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread" are the magic words to happiness.
RUTH ST. DENIS, famous interpretive dancer, is one of the "new renaissance" group working for an age of moral rearmament. "All the arts must be mobilized for the interpretation of the wisdom of God instead of the follies of men" is her message, urging with her group a return to the "age of faith".
CAROLYN WELLS takes up the challenge in her story "Crime Tears On". A shocked public might help in the crusade by stopping beauty contests; frequently, the first wayward step is when lovely maidens parade their beauty along the promenades of summer resorts and world fairs, with modesty thrown to the wind and vanity riding high.
MAUD MAY BABCOCK, correct speech expert, is now publishing a new book, "Public Speaking".
CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT, veteran feminist, in a recent impassioned broadcast urged women to maintain all the privileges gained after a century of struggle and to "Keep the banners of Women's Rights flying until every vestige of the old tradition ordering subjection has been chased from the earth".
CORDELIA THURSTON SMITH, 93, pioneer of 1847, died last July. She had written the story of her life so full of pioneer experiences that it will be a valuable contribution to Utah's history.
THOMAS GIBSON ANDRUS, 97, and Mary Park Brockbank, 96, the only survivors of Utah's 1847 pioneers at the time of the state celebration this year, received honored attentions.
LILY PONS, little French soprano, said she had the thrill of her life when she sang at Chicago's lake front this summer before a crowd of 200,000 people.
IRA BAILEY HARDING of Price, Utah, who died last summer, was a young woman of unusual musical ability who gave liberally of her talents to church and state.
CROWN PRINCESS JULIANA has a new daughter, born August. Feminine rule seems to be the order for the Netherlands.
ALICE MARBLE, America's champion tennis star, now towers over the game internationally, having won in all the finals at Wimbledon.
DR. D. E. BEEMAN of Los Angeles suggests less work for women to avoid varicose veins caused through standing too much. Lord Beaverbrook of London suggests conscription of women for more work, especially useless society women "who eat and drink too much".
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
LOUISE YATES ROBISON President AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor KATE M. BARKER Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Rosannah C. Irvine Emeline Y. Nebeker Nettie D. Bradford Janet M. Thompson Ida P. Beal Beatrice F. Stevens Marcia K. Howells Belle S. Spafford Jennie B. Knight Rae B. Barker Emma A. Empey Donna Durrant Sorensen Annie Wells Cannon Nellie O. Parker Lalene H. Hart Vivian R. McConkie Cora L. Bennion Anna S. Barlow Leda T. Jensen
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XXVI SEPTEMBER, 1939 No. 9
EDITORIAL
Frances E. Willard
AS we view the past, we see a panorama of far-reaching movements, which have held aloft Christian ideals and advanced civilization, born and directed by exceptional women—women who have made a mark on their generation by the good work they have done. This issue of the Magazine contains a brief sketch of the life and works of Grace Abbott, a great leader in the field of public welfare and the special friend of children. A retrospective view of her life brings an appreciation of her accomplishments and a realization that she has left with us a great legacy in the goals she set.
Another gifted and versatile woman who has left the imprint of her life on the sands of time is Frances E. Willard. Born one hundred years ago this month, September 28, 1839, in Churchville, New York, her service to humanity entitles her to recognition as one of the greatest women of her age. A sketch of her life says: "The life of Frances Willard was so broad in its sympathy and purpose that all humanity was touched by it. From her beautiful life the church learned the power of consecrated womanhood; nobler aspirations grew in men because of her uplifting thought; self-distrusting women were inspired by courageous deeds; youth found in her an ideal, and children loved her as their friend."
Her interests and activities extended in many directions. She worked ceaselessly for the cause of womanhood, first speaking in favor of woman's suffrage in 1877. Some one has said that Frances Willard created a new order for women. Under her leadership the women of her own country, and world women as well, were brought out into active work for the common welfare and were enabled to take their place among the best and noblest of the world's workers. In 1890 she was elected president of the Woman's National Council which represented nearly all of the women's societies of America.
Great as were her activities in the woman's movement, she is probably best known for her activities in the temperance movement. She ceaselessly fought the inroads of the liquor traffic, hanging the banner of "total abstinence" wherever she set her foot or wherever her pen wrote its message. Visioning a liquorless world, the major portion of her life was devoted to organizing women for prohibition of alcohol as a beverage. From 1879 until her death in 1898 she was president of the Women's Christian Temperance Union. In 1887 she was elected president of the International Women's Christian Temperance Union. She was one of the founders of Our Union, a temperance publication, and also The Signal. These were later combined as the Union Signal, which periodical she edited from 1892 until her death.
Memorials without number are erected to Frances Willard—schoolhouses, fountains, halls, hospitals, even a beautiful marble portrait in Statuary Hall of the Nation's Capitol. A Willard Memorial Organization Fund has been established for the extension of the work to which this great reformer gave her life.
But there is no greater way in which honor could be bestowed upon Frances Willard than for women everywhere to continue to wage war on alcoholic beverages. Intemperance still exists; liquor is on sale everywhere; drunkenness on the highway takes its annual toll; cocktail parties have become a mark of social acceptability; the bootlegger still plies his nefarious traffic. We must not forget that the fight for morality and decency must be constant and progressive. We must not allow the moral fiber of our young people to be sapped by surrender to an appetite for liquor. Organized women can do much to control the alcohol evil. Mothers in the home must develop in their children the moral fiber to say "No" to temptation. Children must be taught to master their own appetites. The world today needs its Frances Willards.
SHUT IN By Beatrice Knowlton Ekman
A wind from the western prairie Swept into the town today, Strained at the doors and the windows, Ran over the roofs and away.
It stirred my heart with yearning As it tossed and swayed the trees, For a lonely stretch of sky-bound plain Where beard grass blows in the breeze,
For scarred and lifted mountains Where the eagles soar and dip, For the churning foam of the ocean In the wake of an outbound ship.
I wanted to rise and follow, But only my winged thoughts soar; Cloistered I watch and remember I will run with the wind no more.
The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHAPTER EIGHT
THE actions of Fred Nagle were becoming decidedly peculiar. He would stay away for days at a time, then burst suddenly upon the scene in clean slacks and sweater, aglow with a terrifically scrubbed look about him. Sometimes he came armed with a pound bag of candy, much to the amazement of Nell, who was well used to his thrifty habits. He would sit moodily in the big shabby kitchen of the gray house and stare at Nell as she moved about her work.
"Beauty and the poultry man," Rob murmured to himself as he left the Carey house one day in late summer. Fred was there. He had scarcely noticed Lathrop who had spent his time exchanging lively thrusts with Miss Brilliant. The invalid was feeling very much up to form now that she could push her way about the house in her wheel chair.
Rob was excited. In his pocket was a small package Miss Brill had just given him. In his mind were several things he intended to say very plainly to Ward Meacham, Sally Delavan's attorney. He wouldn't trust his precious find with Sally herself. He drove the twenty mile stretch to Seattle erratically, wondering just why he was doing this.
"If I could have stayed put in my steamer chair, like any other nervous-breakdownee!" he thought morosely, then chuckled. His "nerves" had gone, disappeared completely, the day he had forgotten to be concerned about them. "That's one thing I have to thank the Careys for," he told himself, then shut his mind to thought. That other thing he must forget. He had been mad to even think that Nell would look his way.
The Meacham office overlooked the Sound from wide windows in a high floor of the Smith Building. Old Ward must have plenty of fat fees to afford the thick soft rugs, the good paintings that made this large room so very pleasant to be in. That painting over the magazine table, for instance, the gray-blue marine! It was like Nell's picture, not a whit better.
From behind the door of the inner office came the hum of voices. The door opened and a woman came out, followed by the cadaverous Meacham.
Rob was on his feet. "How are you, Sally?" he said politely.
Miss Delavan looked at him coldly. She was lovely as a princess in her violet tweeds, with a silver fox fur framing the pale skin of her throat and face, her somber eyes shadowed by a smart black hat.
"We can settle that nonsense at once, Ward," she announced, and swept back into the office, followed by the two men.
"Where do I start?" Robert asked amiably. The sight of Sally in her expensive clothes selfishly rushing to secure her money against the vague threat he had suggested put spirit into Rob. He was ready to do battle.
"I've already told him that high tale you concocted about mother's taking the baby and putting her in some strange car," Sally said impatiently, "so we won't go into that."
"That's fine," Rob said, "and perhaps Mr. Meacham can tell us to whom the income from Frank's property has been paid all these years?"
"I can," Ward Meacham said, looking at Sally. "It has been paid to Sally since her mother's death. There was no Frances Delavan mentioned in Mrs. Delavan's will. Of course, if there is one, she would inherit her father's share."
"But there certainly was such a child," Rob said.
"Yes," said Sally, "and in spite of your silly accusations, Frances was sent to Martha."
ROB opened his little package. In it were several articles of baby clothing and two letters. One of these he handed to Mr. Meacham.
"This arrived yesterday from Los Angeles. Martha Lane has been dead five years. Nobody ever heard of a girl called Frances Delavan living with her."
Sally whispered fiercely, "You meddling, interfering—"
Ward Meacham's deep eyes came alive. "What on earth is this? Are you actually convinced there is such a child—that I've paid Frank's money out for these seventeen years when it should have gone to a daughter?"
"There is," Rob shouted, "and Sally's been spending her money. You'll tell everything, or I'll spread it all over every paper in the country."
Sally was dead white, but her face was calm. "There isn't anything to tell," she said stubbornly. "I was in New York at the time. When I got home the baby was gone. Mother was much too ill to be questioned, but I understood she had been sent to Martha. I never asked after her. I hated her," she cried, "that French girl's child."
"She is also Frank's child," Rob said sternly. "Look at these, Mr. Meacham, look at these clothes. All of them new, cheap, untraceable. All," he paused dramatically, "but this little shirt. Aunt Sarah forgot about this."
He held them out, a little yellowed baby shirt smelling of camphor balls, and also the other clothes. He pointed out a laundry mark on the shirt, distinct and clear.
"FXDQ," he read, "Francis X. Delavan, Queen Anne Hill, is what it means. The Palace Laundry did Aunt Sarah's wash with that mark on it for years."
Ward Meacham took the little shirt in his hands. He turned it over, studying it; his green eyes narrowed, but he said nothing. Strangely, Sally relaxed. A smile enlivened her face.
"I recall," she said negligently, "that as Frances grew out of her things, mother had them sent to the charity maternity hospital. There must be dozens of things about with that mark on them."
Sally was slipping out of his hands, quite gracefully. Furiously, Rob knew this, and there wasn't a thing he could do about it. Ward Meacham tapped his desk thoughtfully.
"That's right, Sally," he said, but his face had a curious look, as though he looked on at a robbery he was powerless to prevent.
"Would a court admit the shirt as evidence?" Rob demanded.
"Oh, surely, but it wouldn't prove anything," Ward said, "not even several pieces of clothing with the mark on them. You see, they've been scattered all over the country. And Sally's word that she was away, and the well-known mental collapse of Mrs. Delavan—crowned with the fact that Martha Lane is dead—I don't see that anything is to be gained by opening up the affair now, Lathrop? Do you?"
"Only," cried Rob angrily, "that I can produce Frances Delavan. Only that she is a dear sweet girl who ought to have the money her father left for her. Only that—"
"Only that Robby here has fallen in love with a pretty girl and thinks he can foist her off on us as the heiress to the Delavan fortune, which isn't so large as you might think," Sally taunted, and stood up. "Now I really must go. If it won't bore you to death, do let Rob tell you all the sad tale. I'm sure he'll dote on it. And you," she turned with something of fear to Rob, "better decide to forget this nonsense. I've had enough of it."
She slammed the door behind her perfumed person.
"WELL, young man," Ward Meacham sighed, "you can begin your story now."
So Robert told it, from start to finish, fact and fancy combined. How the striking resemblance of Nell Carey's hair to the special Delavan type of red hair had started him off, how Miss Brill's story and the baby clothes had rounded out the tale; even of Sally's hysterics at mention of the affair—all this he told.
Ward Meacham was silent for some time. "I guess that's Frank's girl, all right, but your proof won't stand up in court. Now if Sally wanted to find her—but she doesn't, and in a way, you can't blame her. Imagine the hue and cry in the papers! Then Sarah Delavan's failing mind at the end would be known, and that's been kept a secret from all but her closest friends. And finally, Sally has accustomed herself to a large income. She'd hate to give up a single penny of it."
"But think of it, man! A child disappears, goes completely. Doesn't the law want to know where?" the exasperated Rob cried.
"Not at all. Plenty of people disappear. Nobody's asked the law to help find Frances Delavan. And I'm convinced that Sally herself had nothing at all to do with it, and at the time she couldn't have recovered the child without screaming publicity. You know Sally would never do that—for a child she admits she resented."
The gaunt lawyer stood up and yawned. "If you find anything conclusive, Lathrop, let me know. I'll be glad to work with you if you find anything."
Rob gathered up his exhibits and went out moodily. He found his car and drove back to Pine Point without even stopping in to see his mother. The feeble sunshine that had lighted the landscape earlier was gone, and the sky was filled with the flying scud of black clouds. The wind was whipping the gray water of the Sound to a foam-flecked beach, and leaves of trees were showing white against the drive of the coming storm as Rob turned in at the Carey place.
(To be continued)
Builders in Action By Bessie E. Redding (April Conference Address, Officers' Meeting)
THE Los Angeles Stake Relief Society made plans for their work just as soon as they were apprised of the fact that there would be a Membership Drive. As early as June they had perfected their plans and had their machinery put in motion. On the opening day in September, all the wards had unified programs constructed around the theme, "Building Latter-day Saint Womanhood." At these socials inspirational talks were given and the Membership Drive explained. There were so many fine features connected with these stimulating programs that it would not be possible to mention all of them. We feel, however, that they furnished a good start—a splendid impetus.
At an early date our membership department was organized. All wards sent representatives to Union meeting to get instructions from the stake coordinator. We made outlines for Union meetings from material found in the Handbook, from valuable suggestions in the Relief Society Magazine and by gathering here a little and there a little. Salient points beneficial for the Drive were emphasized.
There were five things especially featured as valuable for ward coordinators:
1. To keep a sense of humor.
2. To be tolerant of ignorance.
3. To be sympathetic and smiling.
4. To be enthusiastic and friendly.
5. To be well informed, gracious and humble—radiating the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
Naturally, we encountered some handicaps, but these were soon surmounted. During this period I think I am safe in saying that I became a very proficient saleslady for the Relief Society Handbook. With my mind's eye I now see page 180, and in fancy hear myself saying, "Turn to page 182."
We are happy to report that there has been no "let down" in our stake since we obtained our quota. The follow-up work is progressing splendidly. The wards are keeping a record of the attendance of all new members since September. The stake has offered a prize to the ward coordinator who scores the highest percentage of attendance of new members by the close of the season's work. There is harmony existing between the presidents and their ward coordinators.
We must be cognizant of the scope and magnitude of Relief Society, knowing that its power and strength are measured by the number of women it serves. Relief Society improves the standards of any community in which it is found. Relief Society improves the whole life of the individual, making her a distinctly outstanding personality and giving her more power for better service to humanity. Relief Society in building for permanency holds high her ensign of lofty ideals and elevated standards. It brings together thousands of women inspired with a desire for greater intellectual growth, for spiritual uplift, imbued with high moral purposes and full of the love of God and His children.
Facts Speak
FOLLOWING is a copy of a letter reporting the results of tests for alcoholic content in beer made by two different brewing companies:
"Utah Women's Christian Temperance Union Hotel Utah Salt Lake City, Utah
Mesdames:
Complying with your request of recent date, I respectfully submit herewith Test Report No. 1 and No. 2, covering Chemical Analysis of two samples of Beer for Alcohol, as received at my laboratory, No. 35 State Capitol, Salt Lake City, Utah, from Mrs. D. W. Jenkins, President, on June 10, 1939, at 11:10 A. M., as follows:
TEST REPORT NO. 1
Sample marked: Beer, 3.2% Alcohol by Wt. Quantity: 12 fl. Oz. In original bottle
ANALYSIS
Alcohol: 3.57% by Volume 2.86% by Weight
One 12 oz. Bottle contains: 12.67 cc. 200 Proof Alcohol
TEST REPORT NO. 2
Sample marked: Beer, 3.2% Alcohol by Wt. Quantity: 12. Fl. Oz. In original bottle
ANALYSIS
Alcohol: 3.91% by Volume 3.13% by Weight
One 12 oz. Bottle contains: 13.89 cc. 200 Proof Alcohol
Respectfully, (Signed) M. Elmer Christensen, State Chemist."
Note: The names of the brewers have been omitted. Note: See illustration on next page.
The following excerpts indicate the effects of alcoholic beverages on individuals even when the alcoholic content is as low as that found in light wines and beers:
Vial, reproduced actual size, showing the amount of alcohol contained in a 12 oz. Bottle of beer.
MARCUS ACH. "Ach showed that perception, the faculty used in seeing and recognizing signals, was weakened by very moderate quantities of alcohol. Doses even of ten cubic centimeters, equivalent to the amount of alcohol in one large (ten ounce) glass of beer caused impairment of perception under some conditions. Twenty or thirty cubic centimeters caused distinct impairment."
WALTER R. MILES, in his book Alcohol and Human Efficiency, states that "Amounts of alcohol corresponding to that found in three-fourths to one pint of wine, or to about four eight-ounce glasses of 3.5% (by volume) beer, increased typewriting errors from 14 to 50%."
From a review of The Effect of Alcoholic Drinks, by Transeau: In the experiments of Dr. Miles the pursuit meter showed that ability to give close and steady attention was poorer by an average of 14% after alcohol was taken. Effect did not reach its worst stage for about one hour and a half.
BENEFICENT REPROBATE. "In the one-fifth of a second one of our subjects took to make up his mind, his car traveling at sixty miles an hour would traverse over eighteen feet; but when, after drinking forty-five cubic centimeters of alcohol, he took one-third of a second, the car would have covered over twenty-eight feet, or ten feet further. In a world where split seconds count, ten feet is frequently the wavering margin between life and death."
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Notice to Writers of Plays and Pageants
THE committee on Plays and Pageants regret to announce that there is an over supply of this type of material in the Relief Society office. We therefore suggest that no more manuscripts be submitted for publication except by request. In spite of our inability to accept more contributions for publication, owing to lack of space in the Magazine, we still urge our members to continue to write. We are deeply interested in the development of literary talent, especially along this particular line. Many of the manuscripts which we have received have merit but are sometimes lacking in general appeal. These can perhaps be used locally with good effect. We earnestly desire that this be done.
Latter-day Saints have a spiritual heritage possessed by few other people. There is also much dramatic and literary ability among our Relief Society members. Our Mormon history is full of stirring, soul-inspiring incidents that may be dramatized so effectively that any Latter-day Saint woman possessing literary ability can make, if she will, a valuable contribution to our very limited group of worth while plays and pageants. There is a constant and growing demand in our Organization for dramatic productions. There is hope that in the not too distant future a genius will be born who will make use of the wondrous events in our Church history and present to the world a dramatic masterpiece.
Literary Books
THE books used in connection with the 1938-39 Literary course were handled for the Relief Society by the Deseret Book Company. Through their cooperation special editions were secured and offered for sale at the following nominal prices:
The Advance of the English Novel, William Lyon Phelps......$1.25 Robinson Crusoe, Daniel Defoe.........................................1.00 The Talisman, Sir Walter Scott......................................1.00 Lorna Doone, Richard Dodridge Blackmore.............................1.00 City of Bells, Elizabeth Goudge....................................2.00
The Book Store still have a number of these on hand, no doubt due to the fact that being older titles a great many of the sisters had them in their libraries. Each of these novels holds an important position in literature. They are delightful and profitable reading and a valuable addition to the home library. We suggest that those who do not already own these books avail themselves of the opportunity to purchase them at these low prices before the limited supply is exhausted.
The Advance of the English Novel is again recommended for use in connection with the 1939-40 Literary course.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
Franklin Stake
IT is with feelings of profound sorrow that we note the death of Sister Bertha P. Larson on May 26, 1939. For many years as president of the Franklin Stake Relief Society her accomplishments were magnificent. Under her capable leadership the organization operated for the advancement of the women of her stake along every line—material, social, spiritual. The general office always found whole-hearted cooperation from this progressive stake. Such women as Sister Larson are the strength and the glory of the Relief Society. The Presidency and General Board extend to Brother Larson and his family sincerest sympathy in their great bereavement.
On the 18th of June the stake Relief Society was reorganized with Alice S. Merrill as president, Louie M. Cole first counselor, Marie M. Merrill second counselor, and Bertha M. George secretary-treasurer, with all necessary board members and special workers. We welcome them into the group of stake officers. True to the traditions of the past and the high standard set, the future of Franklin Stake Relief Society is full of promise.
Yellowstone Stake
THE picture below is of the Relief Society sisters of the stake in conference and also shows the beautiful handwork on display. The Membership Drive has been an outstanding activity of this stake. A stirring membership song has been composed and a membership chart designed—a thermometer showing the present membership of each ward, each year's quota, and the number to be enrolled by 1942 in order to achieve keystone success. A membership arch, divided into as many parts as there are wards in the stake, with old members designated by a blue star, new ones by a gold star, and prospective members by a red star, is also effective. An award of merit will be presented by the stake to the ward reaching its quota in the Membership Campaign.
The accompanying picture is of a pageant presented by the St. Anthony First Ward as a part of the ward conference and the 17th of March celebration.
Cottonwood Stake
ERRATUM: A report of the Cottonwood Stake Maternity Hospital published in the July issue stated that 422 patients had been admitted to the hospital. This should have read 4,222.
Oneida Stake
THE enthusiasm with which the stakes have conducted the Membership Campaign is again called to our attention by a report from the Oneida Stake, where the efforts of the sisters have been very successful. A prize was offered by the stake board to the ward making the greatest membership increase. This prize was won by the Preston Fourth Ward. The coordinators of this ward are shown in the accompanying photograph, Sisters Annie McQueen and May Larson. These sisters have made a visit to every family in the ward and brought many members who have been inactive for years back into the Relief Society. They were also successful in enrolling thirty new members, which was their quota for three years. They also made the arch shown in the picture. This arch has a flower with the name of each member of the Fourth Ward Relief Society, both old and new, inscribed upon it. This is only one example of the very excellent leadership always found in the Oneida Stake under the capable direction of Sister Ellen B. Larson, whose splendid accomplishments in all branches of the work have been outstanding for many years.
On June 25, 1939, the stake was reorganized with Sister Ora W. Packer president, Harriet J. Greaves first counselor, Ida E. Evans second counselor, and Alida Necley secretary-treasurer. The General Board congratulates these sisters and expresses the hope that the fine cooperation always found in the Oneida Stake Relief Society will continue.
San Francisco Stake
ON Saturday, April 29, a spring exhibit, food sale and fashion show was held at the social hall of the San Francisco Ward. The sisters brought a wide assortment of foods prepared at home—quantities of homemade bread of many varieties, home-baked rolls, cakes, etc. Two large tables were loaded with these contributions. The quantity, variety and quality of handwork exhibited was the finest ever shown in this stake.
The purpose of the fashion show was to demonstrate that labor, skill and thoughtfulness in the remodeling of wearing apparel which might otherwise be discarded can produce attractive clothing. This was a definite encouragement to thrift and industry and afforded the women stimulation in providing family needs in this way. Models were grouped according to age and type, and posters were used to introduce each group. Clothing suitable for all seasons and occasions, including a bridal costume, was demonstrated. The Literary teacher, Lila Barstow, added interest to the occasion by describing each garment—the materials, their source and total cost. In some cases the expenditure was a few cents, in others it was nothing more than labor.
In the exhibits and the food donations the women of the stake responded generously. A spirit of love, harmony and loyalty, which brought success and happiness, characterized the entire affair. Sister Josephine Thatcher Danford, to whom we are indebted for this report, says, "There was an attendance of approximately 350 or 400 members to whom refreshments were served. A worth while sum was realized from the sale of the foods and the admission charges." Juab Stake ON the 17th of March a very interesting program was presented by the Juab Stake. A typical Magazine cover was reproduced and each of the educational courses personified and appropriately presented. "The Key of Promise", a beautiful anniversary pageant, was the medium of expression through which the story of the Relief Society organization, its objectives and accomplishments were graphically related. The picture below shows the cast. Bonneville Stake THE favor with which the arch as a symbol of the Membership Drive has been accepted by the stakes is borne out by reports coming from all over the Church. The campaign was enthusiastically conducted in every ward of the Bonneville Stake. The above picture is of the Yalecrest Ward arch and Sister Mable Olsen, the coordinator. With each new member a flower is added to the arch. ANNIVERSARY PAGEANT, JUAB STAKE MORMON ANDICRAFT Highlights By Nellie O. Parker The charm of the party is not in the display Of elaborate or costly things, Or the formal serving of sumptuous viands; It's in the quality of friendliness offered, in the opportunity set For the joyous interchange of word and of spint, When the soul is fed as well as the body, And the warmth of the heart is in it. EARLY every woman would like to be a charming hostess and entertain friends graciously and easily, but many feel that their things aren't nice enough or that they can't afford to give parties. But if they only knew it, friends love to come where there is a warm, cordial hospitality and an informal atmosphere that's conducive to conversation and friendly interchange of ideas. Material things are of secondary importance. The homely "old honesties" with simple food attractively served are as effective as elegant, expensive things. Get friends talking about their interests and hobbies and they'll never noticc whether they are eating an hors d'ouvre or a ham sandwich. And they'll have a wonderful time. Using common things in an uncommon way is often a means of adding interest and charm to a party. Daintily tinted popcorn baskets made effective motives for a lunchcon that honored Sister Amy W. Evans recently. They repeated the color scheme of the centerpiece and served as placecard favors; for a little take-off on Sister Evans' work in welfare, each basket was filled with candied corn, beans, etc., typifying a food basket sent out at 'Thanksgiving and Christmas. These baskets were obtained from Mormon Handicraft. 'They can be made any size or in any combination of colors. They are especially suitable for children's parties. From Mormon Handicraft also came the beautiful crocheted, fillet table cover that was presented Sister Evans as a token of the love and esteem in which she is held by the General Board. It was an exquisitc piece of handwork. Come and see if Mormon Handicraft hasn't just the right gift for that birthday or wedding that's coming up. I saw two lovely new sweaters at the shop. One was turquoise blue, knit of Hama-down yarn, buttoned in front withbuttons of the same color. The other was of white angel crepe with coral-colored buttons. They are ideal for early fall wear and very desirable for daughter's wardrobe for school. Order now to insure having one when needed. She Conductor and the Organist By Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff THE conductor's problem is first to interpret the music to be sung and then by means of her conducting technique to convey to the chorus her ideas so definitely that the singers are compelled to sing as she wishes. It is obvious that a conductor must have certain musical and personal characteristics. Most important among these is a knowledge of music. Without this she cannot secure a tasteful and effective interpretation of a piece, nor can she hope to command the respect necessary for the implicit obedience in all musical matters that must be required of the chorus. A conductor must have the technique in conducting that is necessary for projecting to the singers the mood of the composition and the small changes in the specd and loudness of the music that make up an artistic performance. A conductor must know very definitely what she wants and be willing to work to obtain it. This firmness of character should appear in the assignment of parts, as well as in rehearsal and performance. But if firmness is necessary, tact is equally so. 'Tactfulness does not imply weakness. THE organist's problem is first to ~~ learn the accompaniments and then to play them as the conductor wishes. She must be able to follow closely the movements of the baton, the left hand, the face and body, which show what the conductor wishes. A good accompanist falls not far short of being a mind-reader. It is as an accompanist that we will think of the organist in this series of articles. We will assume a knowledge of music and technique sufficient to play the accompaniments required, and attempt to teach the organist the movements she must interpret when used by the conductor. A good accompanist follows the conductor even when she is wrong. The articles you will read during the following months are for both conductor and organist. They will teach the conductor what to do, the accompanist how to interpret and follow. It is suggested that the chorister and organist meet together once a week outside meeting and rehearsal for the purpose of working together on these lessons. 'The organist will be able to tell the chorister when her movements are unreadable, and the conductor can tell the accompanist when she has not interpreted aright. It is only by such cooperation that we can hope to attain the best possible in singing, whether by congregation or chorus. And only the best possible can satisfy us, for we believe that "The Glory of God is Intelligence". LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Lesson 3 Matthew The Publican Helpful REFERENCES James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 193-195, 222. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, consult index under heading of "Matthew". E. F. Scott, The Literature of the New Testament, pp. 65-75, 18-52. Because of the many references listed in this lesson, it would be well to read the entire Gospel of Matthew. AN UNUSUAL CALL. — Our Lord's call to Matthew was one of the most unusual and noteworthy acts of his ministry. His choice of a publican, one of a detested class in Jewish society, to be one of His disciples and apostles indicates that it is not always best to follow the usual maxims of worldly wisdom. An executive in a business or church would never pick men to fill responsible positions whose social status and reputation were such as to prove embarrassing or dangerous. In respect to the Savior's choice of Matthew, Professor A. B. Bruce wrote: "A publican disciple, much more a publican apostle, could not fail to be a stumbling-block to Jewish prejudice, and therefore to be, for the time at least, a source of weakness rather than of strength. Yet, while perfectly aware of this fact, Jesus invited to the intimate fellowship of disciplehood one who had pursued the occupation of a tax-gatherer, and at a later period selected him to be one of the Twelve. His procedure in this case is all the more remarkable when contrasted with the manner in which He treated others having outward advantages to recommend them to favorable notice, and who showed their readiness to follow by volunteering to become disciples; of whom we have a sample in the scribe who came and said, 'Master, I will follow Thee whithersoever thou goest.' (Matt. 8:18-20) This man, whose social position and professional attainments seemed to point him out as a very desirable acquisition, the Master deliberately scared away by a gloomy picture of his own destitute condition...." Matthew's formal call to discipleship is very interestingly told by Luke who applies to him his more strictly Jewish name Levi. "And after these things he went forth, and saw a publican, named Levi, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he said unto him, Follow me. And he left all, rose up, and followed him. And Levi made him a great feast in his own house: and there was a great company of publicans and of others that sat down with them. But their scribes and Pharisees murmuted against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners? And Jesus answering said unto them, They that'are whole 632 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE need not a physician; but they that are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance." (Luke 5:27-32) This quotation reveals the bitterness and hatred of the Jews for the publicans as a social group. The above scripture is interesting in two other respects. One is that Matthew had a generous and hospitable soul. The other is the use of veiled sarcasm in the Savior's rejoinder to the scribes and Pharisees. "A hated publican may be better material for an apostle than a self-righteous hypocrite," we may justly believe Him to be thinking. "Confident in the power of truth, He chose the base things of the world in preference to things held in esteem, assured that they would conquer at the last." (Bruce) FARMING OUT TAXES. — In the time of Christ the country of Judea was nominally under the surveillance of the governor of Syria, and received a procurator. The latter lived at Caesarea, though at special times he took up his residence in Jerusalem in order to give the large number of people there his personal attention. The procurator had three main functions: To collect taxes levied by the Romans; to act as a judge on important cases; and to command the military forces in the country. The taxes collected in Judea went directly to Caesar, because Palestine was an imperial and not a senatorial province. (See Matt. 22:17 ff.) Many Jews were hired to collect the taxes. Each one of these individuals secured the privilege of collecting the customs in a certain district, for which he paid a stipulated sum each year. All revenue beyond that amount would be his own profit. While the law was supposed to determine a maximum, it was so irregular in practice that room was left open for extortion. The collectors or "publicans" (from the Latin publicani) were much hated by the Jews, both as extortioners and as Roman agents. Now Matthew was one of this hated class to whom the disliked foreign power farmed out taxes. It would, of course, be unfair to suppose that all publicans were extortioners and unfair in their exaction of taxes. Matthew made his home in Capernaum and for aught we know that city may have been his special district for tax collection. It is possible, of course, that he had charge of some other district but kept his office in the city for convenience. The very nature of his business would make him widely known in Galilee. There is little reason to suppose that Matthew, in his office of tax collector, was not well acquainted with the preaching of our Lord before the latter formally told him to "follow me". It is even possible that he had met the Master personally. MATTHEW BECOMES AN APOSTLE.—After the Savior's first call to Matthew, he found ample opportunity to study the new disciple. The latter's qualities of mind and heart satisfied the Christ that he should hold one of the highest offices that, can be conferred on man in the flesh—the Holy Apostleship. | Matthew was therefore a member of that famous little band of twelve whom Christ ordained and set apart for the ministry. (See Matt. 10:3) Aside from the facts already mentioned, we know little or nothing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 633 of Matthew's career. There is an old tradition to the effect that he carried the Gospel to distant lands and later met a martyr's death. Common tradition credits him with writing the Gospel of Matthew. We shall now consider that book. HE AUTHORSHIP OF THE GOSPEL OF MATTHEW — The authorship of the Gospel of Matthew, like that of John, has been debated. Among Latter-day Saint theologians it is claimed that Matthew wrote the Gospel for the following reasons: (1) The internal evidence in the Gospel shows throughout that the author was a Palestinian Jew as is evident from his knowledge of the Old Testament, the geography of Palestine, Jewish history, manners and customs, etc. (2) The cosmopolitan and universal points of view exhibited by the Gospel. This would be expected from a true apostle. Most of the views held to be narrowly Jewish can be readily explained. THE TEACHING OF THE BOOK OF MATTHEW.—Assuming Matthew was the author of the Gospel by that name we may point out its importance and teaching. Matthew may not be the most beautiful of the Gospels—perhaps we can accord John that honor— but it is by common consent the most important. From the first this Gospel has been placed at the very beginning of collections of New Testament books. As Professor Scott remarks, "It has been accepted in all times as the authoritative account of the life of Christ, the fundamental document of the Christian religion." As he further points out, Matthew's primacy is due to the following causes: (1) It has an arrangement excellently adapted for teaching purposes—much better in fact than the other Gospels. (2) It has the fullest and most concise account of Christ's teaching. "Not only have a great number of the Sayings been preserved, but they are grouped with remarkable skill, so as to reinforce and illustrate one another. Of this, the most notable example is the socalled Sermon on the Mount.... As arranged by Matthew, the discourse has always been regarded as the classical exposition of the Christian ethic." (3) It is by all odds the most comprehensive of the Gospels. The presentation of Christ's teaching and activities is many-sided. Its universal outlook has commended it to all interests. (4) Church interests are constantly before the author. He is the only writer of the Gospels who mentions the church. (See 16:18; 18:17) Matthew "records a number of parables in such a way as to make them apply to the needs and conditions of the church.... As the church Gospel, it has taken its place in all ages as the standard presentation of the faith." One of Matthew's outstanding teachings is that Christ is the longlooked-for Messiah. He constantly refers to prophecies in the Old Testament that foretell His life and mission. (See 1:23; 2:6, 18; 3:3; 4:6; 12:18-21; 13:14, 15) In certain instances it would even appear that his use of the Scriptures is somewhat strained. Matthew furthermore emphasizes the contrast between the teachings of our Lord and the re- 634 quirements of the ancient Law. (Sec 5:17ff.) We have already considered the Sermon on the Mount im an earlier series of lessons. Certainly Matthew should be thanked for giving to us this matchless exposition of the good life. In his teaching Matthew constantly relates the instruction of Christ to the practical needs of the people in the church. Note the direction on (1) marriage and divorce (5:27-32), (2) fasting and prayer (6:1-18), (3) rules for conduct toward children and brethren (18:10-14; 5:25-26; 7:12, 18:15- 22), (4) being steadfast under persecution (10:17-36; 16:24-28). Matthew's discussion of Christ's promise to Peter (16:18, 19), the Transfiguration (17:1-13), Christ's mission "to the lost sheep of the house of Israel" (15:24), of the events pertaining to the Lord's Advent in glory (24), and the parable of the Ten Virgins are all of great interest and doctrinal worth. Our limited space precludes mention of other important teachings. Our Western world owes much to Matthew, the despised publican.  SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit. ) 1. Comment on the principle of democracy that should exist in the Church in the light of Chnist's choice of Matthew, the publican, = an apostle. 2. Explain as best you can diy Matthew was willing to suddenly leave his business at Christ's call. (Show that he could have been well acquainted with Christ's teachings. At that time.) 3. Have some sister contrast and compare the attitude of Matthew and Simon the Zealot toward the Romans. Which of these two men would be better liked by the Jews so far as their foreign views were concerned? (Hint: Compare a Publican and a Zealot. See encyclopedia) 4. How would you answer a person who asserts that Matt. 15:24 is "narrowly Jewish" in outlook and anything but unselfish? (Consult 3 Nephi 15:15-16) 5. What is the practical value of Matthew's Gospel for today? CY> (siting Seacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 3 Befitting Speech "Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ."—Phil. 1:27. "Boys flying kites, haul in their white winged birds; You can't do that when you are flying words. "Thoughts unexpressed may sometimes fall back dead, But God himself can't kill them when they're said." —Will Carleton. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 635 SPEECH is the verbal communication between man and man. It may be common and degrading; it may be commonplace; it may be lofty and sublime. It lays bare the contents of the mind, the desires of the heart, the inner urges, the pettiness or bigness of the human soul. When refined and seasoned with grace, it proclaims the lady or gentleman; when vulgar and profane, it indicates low taste and ill breeding. Speech is a power in every department of human relations. When the wrath and bitterness of the human heart are moulded into words and thrown with violence, speech has the power to break the spirit of a person, while words directed by love and understanding cause one to feel almost God-like in strength to overcome evil and in power to go forward. Conversation which becometh the gospel of Christ elminates all that is coarse or unrefined. Profanity, faultfinding, backbiting, gossip, slander, are unbefitting the Latter-day Saint. Our leaders, constantly caution us to guard our tongues. Brigham Young counseled, "Let not thy tongue give utterance to the evil that is in thine heart, but command thy tongue to be silent until good shall prevail." Francis M. Lyman considered decorous speech one of the important standards by which Latter-day Saints are expected to live. He advised them to "speak ill of no man, not even in a matter of truth, but rather excuse the faults charged against others, and upon proper occasion, speak all the good they know of everybody." Joseph F. Smith admonished, "Look for good in men; build up the good; sustain the good; 'and speak as little evil as you possibly can. It does no good to magnify evil, to publish evil, or to promulgate it by tongue or pen." In every one of us there are powerful drives or appetites, which motivate our behavior, color our judgment, and which insist upon being satisfied. We too often seek satisfaction through an unbridled tongue, not considering the destructiveness of such a course to both self and others. In dealing with an unbridled tongue we must recognize that our unrestrained verbal expressions are a form of emotional release. Behind them is usually found petty jealousies, wounded vanity, a sense of injustice, blocked behavior, or an inferiority complex. If our speech is to be as it becometh the gospel of Christ, we must be sure our fundamental attitudes are right. We must approach our relations with our fellowmen with a broad sense of right and wrong. We must focus our view, not upon that which is wrong and evil, but upon that which is right and good. We must practice the Master's doctrine of love. 'Then, cognizant of our own shortcomings, we must strive to live so that our own lives may bear the closest inspection. "The measure of a man is the size of a thing it takes to make him say a mean or little thing." Discussion 1. Analyze your own attitudes. Discover which ones prompt you to evil speech. 2. What would be the spirit of your home if speech were always befitting the Gospel? Of your Relief 636 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Society organization? Church? 3. Why is it unwise to retaliate when some one speaks ill of us? Of the 4. How may the habit of coarse or unrefined speech be overcome? 5. Read James, Chap. 3. Ae a tterature THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL _ Lesson 3 © "Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc" THE details of the life of Joan ot Arc form a biography which is unique among the world's biographies in one respect: It is the only story of a human life which comes to us under oath, the only one which comes to us from the witness stand. The official records of the Great Trial of 1431, and of the Process of Rehabilitation of a quarter of a century later are still preserved in the National Archives of France, and they furnish with remarkable fulness the facts of her life. The history of no other life of that remote time is known with either the certainty or the comprehensiveness that attaches to hers," says our author. It is well to bear this in mind; otherwise we might be inclined to doubt the amazing, the startling and the unspeakably tragic life of Joan of Arc. BOOK II. TRIAL AND MARTYRDOM. Joan had often foretold that her mission would last but a year, and with the last chapter of Book JI that year was fast drawing toaclose. She begged to be allowed to go home: "Ah, if it might but please God to let me put off this steel raiment and go back to my father and my mother, and tend my sheep again with my sister and my brothers who would be so glad to see me!" She was forced against her will to remain to make marches and to fight. She fought English, Bur- - gundian and French conspiracy, and it was French treachery which betrayed her. Her "voices" had spoken to her of this time and warned her that she would be taken prisoner. She prayed that she might die before she was captured, for her enemies had threatened that they would burn her as a witch if they caught her. She fought on bravely, however, and did not allow her fear to overcome her courage. In March, 1430, she was captured by Jean de Luxembourg of the Burgundian forces, who hoped to get a large ransom for her. It might be supposed that the King and the people of France would have been glad to pay any sum for her safe return because of her marvelous service to her native land. But the King was weak and indolent, and his selfish advisors, who were jealous of Joan, counseled him not to ransom her. Therefore, he made no effort to save her, nor did he show at this time any interest in her fate. She was sold to the English for 1,600 francs. Book III goes very much into detail RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 637 in the recital of the year's imprisonment and the trials to which she was subjected. She was first brought before the Tribunal of the Bishop of Beauvis on the charge of being a witch and a heretic. This defenseless girl was not allowed even an advisor, while her judges were _ of the highest clerical authorities in the land, both English and French, including the Vicar of the Inquisition. Her case was reviewed by the University of Paris, which decided against her. Her last trial began in February and lasted until May, 1431. The author consistently stresses Joan's piety and great devotion to the church and her constant contact with the clergy, who could find no evil in her. In these trials, her judges, who were all churchmen, completely reversed the findings of all the others who had known her intimately and heard her even in the sacred confessional. Joan of Arc's Trial is one of the outstanding mistrials of history; injustice, inhumanity, intolerance and bigotry sat in the judgment seat. On the 30th of May 1431 Joan of Arc was burned at the stake in the market place of Rouen, with every detail of indignity and cruelty. She was just nineteen years old—one year given to saving France, one in barbarous imprisonment. HE Personal Recollection of Joan of Arc, purported to have been written in 1492, when DeConte, her secretary, was 82 years old, verify fully what was said of Mark Twain in relation to the book: "I was reared in the same village with her. I played with her every day when we were little children together, just as you play with your mates.... I fought at her side in the wars; to this day I carry in my mind, fine and clear, the picture of that dear little figure, with breast bent to the flying horses charging at the head of the armies of France, her hair streaming back, her silver mail plowing steadily deeper and deeper into the thick of the battle, sometimes nearly drowned from sight by tossing heads of horses, uplifted swords, arms, wind-blown. Plumes, and intercepting shields. I was with her to the end, and when the black day came whose accusing shadow will lie always upon the mitted French slaves of England who were her assassins, and upon France who stood idle and essayed no rescue; my hand was the last she touched in life. As the year and the decades drifted by, and the spectacle of the marvelous child's meteor flight across the war firmament of France and its extinction in the smoke-clouds of the stake receded deeper and deeper into the past and grew ever more strange, and wonderful, and divine, and pathetic, I came to comprehend and to recognize her at last for what she was, the most noble life that was ever born into this world—save only One." Joan's father died shortly after her martyrdom, but her mother and her brothers, Jean and Piere, lived to take part in the Process of Rehabilitation, which took place in 1456. Joan of Arc had crowned the King, and he had permitted her to be burned as a sorceress and heretic, without making an effort to save her. No nation could be proud of such a king, so he appealed to the Pope who appointed a commission of churchmen to examine the facts of 638 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her life and award judgment. Her case from first to last was minutely retried, and everyone from her own family to the great generals of France was interviewed. In this process every stigma of heresy or sorcery was removed from her name, and those directly responsible for her death were punished. Her family was ennobled, and the effort to have Joan of Arc recognized by the Catholic Church continued for centuries; but it was not until February, 1903, that the formal proposal for canonization was entered. Pope Pius X gave her the title of Venerable in 1904. The decree of beatification was made in 1909, and she was canonized by Pope Benedict XV in 1920. Her name was added to the list of Saints. ADEN OF ARC has been a subject for the learned and the wise for centuries. They have tried to account for her achievements and explain the source of her power. She has been the theme of numberless literary efforts. 'The English essayist, DeQuincy, and the poet Southey wrote of her. One of the greatest works of Frederick Schiller, the eminent German author, is his Jungfrau von Orleans, a noble tribute from one of the world's greatest geniuses. In our own day we have Albert Biglow Paine and George Bernard Shaw who have been attracted by this most unique character in human history. The last biography of her to appear was in 1936. It is V. Sackville West's Saint Joan of Arc. It received the Literary Guild award and is considered by some critics to be the most accurate record of her life yet written. Joan of Arc's biography is a dramatic portrayal of the never-ending struggle between right and might. Her service to her country was not so much in the battles she won as in the fact that she challenged the manhood of France to action. Her power was the inspirational faith and belief in her own country and her own people and her ability to impart this to others. This is the genius of real leadership. In the words of the author: "With Joan of Arc love of country was more than a sentiment, it was a passion.. Love, mercy, charity, fortitude, war, peace, poetry, music—these may be symbolized as any shall prefer: by figures of either sex and of any age; but a slender girl in her first young bloom, with the martyr's crown upon her head, and in her hand the sword that severed her country's bonds—shall not this, and no other, stand for Patriotism through all the ages until time shall end?" Suggestions for Discussion 1. Do you think the book accomplishes what Albert Bigelow Paine says that it will do, "make you love Joan of Arc as Mark Twain loved her'? 2. Select some of the most dramatic episodes of the 'Trials and have them read, pointing out the inconsistencies. 3. Have someone briefly report on some of the other works on Joan of Arc—Schiller's Jungfrau, Paine's Maid in White Armor. 4. What is there in the life of Joan that is vital today? 5. Stress the spiritual guidance which was undoubtedly hers. Social Service Lesson 3 How Does Propaganda Affect Me? I. HOW DOES PROPAGANDA DIFFER FROM EDUCATION? The method of science is to let facts lead where they will. The "method of propaganda, one method of creating public opinion, is to emphasize only one side of the question, to ignore or disparage all other ways of thinking, and to appeal more to emotion than to reason. Education is different from propaganda in that it is designed to disseminate knowledge and skills as well as to develop attitudes, whereas propaganda has to do only with affecting people's attitudes and feelings. If any information is given through propaganda it is for the purpose of changing attitudes. Education usually has no "ax to grind"; propaganda always has one. Education and propaganda are natural enemies; but some methods of education are similar to those of propaganda, because education is also interested in determining attitudes as well as in giving information. When the motive back of education becomes the same as that back of propaganda, the distinction between them vanishes, as is the case in the Russian school system today where only the facts which serve the present government are taught and the desired attitudes developed. Il. EVERYONE IS AFFECTED TO SOME EXTENT BY PROPAGANDA. Try as we will to resist propaganda, we are all vitally affected by it at times. The agencies of propaganda are particularly active during political campaigns and dutring war. Mobilization of public opinion by both sides during the World War was as important as furnishing armaments. Probably words are as important in war as bullets. Every defeat of the enemy and every victory of one's own side are widely publicized in order to build up the fighting morale of the armies as well as the moral courage of those back of the lines. Since the average person cannot learn the facts first hand during wars and political campaigns, he must rely largely upon the newspapers, radio, and public speakers for his information. These organs, to a greater or less extent, become dominated by the interested governments or parties during periods of crisis. Public opinion is, therefore, determined through these organs to suit the purposes of those in control. Only facts favorable to the parties in control of the publicity are circulated. The average person cannot fully escape these propaganda influences, because he cannot gather facts for himself concerning events occurring far away or concerning the inside workings of governments or political parties. Now, all we say here does not mean that propaganda works only to evil purposes. Strong public opinion is imperative in times of crisis, and public opinion cannot often be aroused to effectiveness without the use of propaganda. People must feel strongly about a great cause before they will lay down their lives for it. In time of war or threat of war, 640 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE public opinion is aroused by developing strong emotions toward the mother country and against the enemy. The propaganda at such a time is usually directed toward arousing three particularly strong emotions: Fear and hate of the enemy, hope of victory, and love of country. We should learn to detect efforts to arouse these emotions, and we should learn to see to what a great extent our thinking during critical times, such as the present, is influenced by our feelings rather than by our knowledge of the facts. We dislike to admit that we act more from feeling than from reason. Propagandists realize this fact and furnish us good "reasons" for feeling the way we do. Often they are not the real reasons, but they satisfy us and give us some justification when anyone attacks our attitude on a controversial question. The American people are immediately affected by the incidents of each day, whereas a generation ago news traveled so slowly that public opinion was not aroused by world happenings until weeks or months after their occurrence. The organs of public opinion which are used by modern propagandists are: (1) The radio, long wave systems for local broadcasts and short wave for distant influence, such as European broadcasts to South America; (2) the newspapers, which utilize the radio, telegraph and cablephoto; (3) moving pictures, particularly news reels; (4) the platform, in conjunction with the radio, so effectively used by politicians; (5) face-to-face gossip. Gossip becomes particularly important when the people learn that the other organs are being censored. Ill. WHAT ARE SOME OF THE TECHNIQUES USED IN PROPAGANDA? An understanding of the "tricks" of propaganda should help us better to resist its influence, or perhaps suggest some methods that can be legitimately used in a truly educational campaign. 1. An appeal is made to the emotions, first and foremost, by various methods. A good politician has his picture taken while holding children in his arms. He takes time to shake hands with the children who meet him at the platform. He will also take pains to speak respectfully of motherhood, virtue, fair play, patriotism and other emotionally colored ideals. Glittering generalities are used to appeal to the feelings rather than to the intellect. Such words as "liberty", "social justice", "national honor', and "'democracy"' are symbols which arouse strong feelings, but the meanings of which are vague enough to cover anything the person cares to think. These are simply descriptive words recalling certain kinds of experience, and they are used because they reduce the amount of thinking required to revive those experiences again. The feelings then spread to the speaker, and he leaves us with pleasant feelings toward him, although he may have left us scarcely any information. 2. Name Calling is another technique for arousing public opinion. Names become symbols for negative feelings just as the glittering generalities mentioned before symbolize pleasant emotions. Thus, we call anyone who is un-American a "red", "communist", or "Fascist". These names are symbols for certain feelings already organized within us A RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 641 recent careful study revealed that most Americans react to these names with strong feelings of rejection. When Mr. Hugo Black was being discussed in Congress, before his appointment to the Supreme Court had been approved, his enemies waged an unsuccessful propaganda war against him. A newspaper reporter dug up the fact that he had once held a membership card in the Ku Klux Klan, which influenced some people against him. As another example, the fact that Al Smith was a Catholic was used against him by all who were prejudiced against Catholics. Propagandists use these words freely in their campaigns, knowing that people will not stop to think what they mean but will permit the words to uncritically arouse prejudices which spread to the person in question. Other words widely used because of their power to arouse prejudices are: ''Alien", "foreigner", "Bolshevik", and "anarchist". 3. Misrepresentation is one of the most vicious techniques used in propaganda. The promoters of a propaganda campaign may believe so sincerely in the rightness of their cause that they consider any method, foul or fair, of promoting the cause to be justified. This method is calculated to prevent the opposition from finding the true facts. Atrocity stories are manufactured in war time to inflame public opinion, and, of course, there is no way the average person can verify these stories. Outright deception of one nation by another is not uncommon in time of crisis. 'Thus, Italy pledged not to intervene in the recent Spanish war, which pledge was intended to placate British public opinion; but the Spanish rebels were given almost continual assistance, in spite of denials and repeated pledges. This has all become very clear since the close of the war, and Mussolini publicly boasts of his successful campaign in Spain. 4. Exaggeration of half-truths is a common propaganda technique. In a political campaign, some minor flaw in the arguments of the opposition is picked out and magnified into something basic. It is built into a "straw man" which can easily be knocked down, and the enemy be made to appear defeated; whereas, frequently the point so magnified is of no real importance. The psychological principle underlying the technique of exaggeration is the fact that people tend to generalize our feelings toward a person or doctrine and to wholly accept or wholly reject on the basis of a few points of judgment—not by a careful examination of all aspects. 5. The illusion of universality is the tendency most people have to think that what nearly everybody does must be right. The impression that "everybody's doing it" leads us to accept many courses of action without stopping to ask the question as to whether "everybody" knows what he is doing. Parades, mass meetings, Army and Navy games, popular petitions, and censuses of public opinion give us the impression that "everybody" is on the move and that if we do not fall in line we might lose out on something. We should remember that these impressions are carefully planned by organized groups behind the scenes and that they may not represent the 642 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE spontaneous action of most of the people at all. The source of these mass demonstrations is: sometimes concealed, and the motives are almost always somewhat obscure to the masses. "Spontaneous" applause and "boos" in political audiences are often planned by political organizers to start mass acceptance or rejection without critical examination of the issues involved. If the source of these outbursts were known, of course, they would have little effect. The thoughtful reader will observe that in most of these propaganda techniques the basic psychological principle is the transferring of a feeling from one symbol or aspect of a situation to other parts only remotely related. Be on your guard against all devices which are likely to short-cut your thinking processes and which make you form attitudes without proper consideration of the facts. Beware of "catch words" and slogans. Guard against your class and race hatreds: There is where propaganda works most effectively because our thinking is so emotional on these issues. IV. ANTIDOTES FOR PROPAGANDA. 1. Broad education is the safest protection against propaganda. This means broad reading, training in accurate thinking, and acquaintance with many points of view. Very few Americans cast their vote as a result of informing themselves upon the issues of an election and logically deciding which is the best course to follow. Most voting is a response to the emotional appeals of the radio, newspapers, and community gossip. The same could be said of most opinions on international questions. There is a great need for more thorough general education of the masses of the people. Education alone can discount the effects of propaganda. In a democracy where all of the organs of public opinion are permitted to play upon the ignorance of the people without restriction, there is only one hope— 'democratic educational opportunities, which is also one of the great guarantees we have under our form of government. To be able to resist propaganda we must have habits of looking for emotional as contrasted with intellectual appeals. The demagogue knows the wants of the people better than he knows how properly to satisfy those wants. Platform promises are appealing to us because they are aimed at giving us the impression that our wants are to be satisfied. When our personal benefit is in question, it is almost impossible to think straight. We should not wonder, then, why we cannot see how unlikely it will be for all such promises to be kept. All of the economically unsound schemes for getting rich quickly, such as radical old age pension ($30 every Thursday") plans, touch upon a personal want so directly that clear thinking is very difficult. Many radical politicians ride to victory on the basis of this kind of demagoguery. Our national capital is full of various kinds of pressure groups attempting to get special benefits for interested groups who are looking to their personal welfare ahead of the national good. Until we can detect the difference between facts and wishes we cannot be free from propaganda. Education should bend every effort to train RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 643 the people in the art of straight thinking, as well as to furnish the information with which to fight propaganda. Problems For Discussion 1. Distinguish between propagan-, da and education. 2. Discuss the question as to whether all propaganda should be condemned. 3: Name and give examples of three "tricks" of propaganda.. Show how transfer of feeling is utilized by the propagandists. 5. Show what an important part propaganda plays in present-day international struggles. Give examples. References i. LaPiere, Richard T., Collective Behavior, New York: McGraw-Hill, &ducation fo 1938, pp. 265-303. A more technical reference, thorough and well documented. 2. Starch, D., et al, Controlling Human Behavior, New York: Macmillan, 1936, pp. 557-574. An excellent general source, up to date, semi-technical but elementary and readable. 3. Strong, E. K., Psychological Aspects of Business, New York: McGraw-Hill, 1938, pp. 265-286. Best single semi-technical reference, well documented. 4. Propaganda Analysis, a monthly letter to help the intelligent citizen detect and analyze propaganda. 132 Morningside Drive, New York, N. Y. Has some excellent brief articles on the techniques of propaganda and special analyses of methods and campaigns of the present time. Subscription $2 per annum. Education for Family Life Family Relationships Lesson 3 My Responsibility to My Mate HOW often it is that each of us turns his thoughts, casually or otherwise, to the subject of my mate's responsibility to me, and in his thinking multiplies and magnifies incidents of failure on the part of his mate to measure up to expectations. But how seldom it is that we pause to contemplate the subject of my responsibility to my mate and to attempt to determine to what extent I am failing to make the grade. Responsibilities in any relationship are determined by the purpose and aim for which that relationship exists. Therefore, in order to determine my responsibility to my mate, I must be conscious of the common purpose toward which we are working. Students of family relations today have accepted the fulfillment or development of personality as the most valuable value that comes from family living. Striving toward such a value constitutes a worthy aim for all family groups. 644 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The richest realization of the fulfillment of personality is possible only through the unselfish cooperation of a man and a woman united in marriage for the purpose of carrying on normal family life in which the group consists of husband, wife and children. We use the phrase unselfish cooperation in the true and full sense of its meaning, for only as we can develop unselfishness in our character can we be instrumental in facilitating the fulfillment of the personality of our mate. Unselfish behavior does not mean that I shall be a passive person, always ready and willing to relinquish my own wishes for the momentary satisfaction of the wishes of my mate, but rather that I shall preserve my own identity as a person and be willing to sacrifice the lesser value of the present for the more permanent and richer value of the future as it relates to our relationship. It implies further that I enter marriage with a conscious determination to do all in my power to make possible the fullest realization of the purposes and possibilities of my mate. On the other hand, it does not mean that I shall decide what is good for my mate and devote every effort toward making him or her over, justifying my action on the basis that it is for his or her good, while in reality | am thinking of myself. It means that I shall take a careful inventory of all of our internal resources and try to use them most advantageously for the fulfillment of the personalities of both of us according to our wishes, desires, and the standard of values to which we have agreed. My next obligation is to know my mate. I must try to understand his personality. This, undoubtedly, will require knowledge concerning his earlier life in the parental home. Many of his behavior patterns would not appear as stumbling blocks in our path of happiness if I knew the background concerning their formation. In order to understand personality I must seek causes of behavior. If I know the reason for certain actions, I shall not be so prone to take a fatalistic attitude toward the faults of my mate and will try to tactfully and slowly bring about a change rather than to use up my energy in criticism and complaints. Merely because two people live under the same roof year after year as husband and wife does not necessarily assure either one that he knows the other, and yet such knowledge is taken for granted by the majority of mates. "Guess I might just as well give up trying to make Mable happy," said Bill, in a discouraged tone of voice. "I give her everything I possibly can, clothes, spending money, trips, the use of the car, and a maid so that she will be free to go whenever she wishes; but somehow she does not seem to be happy — at times I even think she hates me." And about the same time Mable said to her friend in an equally discouraged tone of voice, "I wish I knew what I might do in order to please Bill. I feel certain that he is disappointed in me, but I simply cannot discover why. He is so different from what I thought he would be. Before we were married I thought that he would want me to be what we call the 'old-fashioned' type of wife, to spend most of my RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 645 time with the children and making the home attractive; but instead of that, he seems to think that all I should do is dress up and go to parties. I truly dislike to live the way I do, but if it pleases Bill I'll do it. If he would just make me feel that I am a part of his life and - would take me into his confidence rather than to treat me as if I am merely someone to whom he can give things, I am sure we both would be much happier." One reason why there is so much unhappiness and disappointment in marriage is because there are so many Bills and Mables—not necessarily persons in the same financial situation, but in the same situation as far as knowing each other is concerned. We do not know a person unless we know his needs, his wishes, his goals, his unsatisfied longings, and his capacities. Such an insight into the personality of another can be gained only through concentrating attention and focusing interest upon the problem, together with an earnest desire to know. OTHER things being equal, my ability to measure up to the responsibility of being a real mate is determined largely by the condition of my health. To build up and preserve one's health is a duty that every person should accept as being basic to happiness. To give a reasonable amount of attention to the care and protection of health is one of the earmarks of an intelligent person. The true husband or the true wife is never a better friend and helpmate than when illness is in the home, or when any other crisis arises; however, prolonged illness in the home constitutes a powerful challenge to family unity. It is difficult to believe, but true, that a presumedly intelligent wife made the following remark while present at a midnight party: "I know if I eat another piece of cake I shall have a headache when I wake up in the morning, but what's the difference. If I am ill, dear old Dave will get up early enough to give the kiddies their breakfast and get them off to school. You know, I have the grandest husband in the whole world." Probably she will find out all too late that there is a limit to which even the grandest husband will tolerate being imposed upon. Lack of space prevents our giving similar cases in which the situation is reversed, the husband being guilty of selfish indulgences that result in the wife taking on double duties. A group of young husbands were discussing, in a more or less serious mood, the one characteristic each possessed that had seemed to make the strongest appeal to the woman whom he married. The most outstanding member of the group said: "The answer that Genevieve gave me when I asked her to marry me is my contribution to this discussion, and I should like to say that her answer has been the most powerful force in whatever success I have achieved. Naturally, when I proposed to her, I had to explain that I had nothing to offer her in addition to myself and my love. I half expected her to turn me down or at least suggest that we wait a few years until I had accumulated something in the line of worldly goods—but not Gene. I can see her now as she looked straight into my eyes and said, 'Ruddy, you are 646 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE all that I could ask my husband to be at twenty-two years of age. You have my love and my respect, and I have confidence and faith that you will make the most of your capacity to grow and develop into a man equally as fine as my father is. Now the important question is, do you have faith in me that I will develop along with you so that when we are sixty-five years old we can experience the same sort of companionship that Mother and Dad are enjoying now?" To grow is another responsibility I owe my mate—to keep up in development spiritually, intellectually, emotionally, and esthetically—so that I shall always hold first place in the life of my mate, in love and in interest. If we as mates are to realize fulfillment of personality we must have the opportunity to function as parents. Therefore, it is my responsibility to prepare myself for parenthood. The tendency is for physically sound parents to beget physically sound offspring. This stresses again the need for giving health first consideration. At the present time it is a reflection on the intelligence and wisdom of any parent who remains ignorant concerning child care and guidance, because this information is available to all without monetary cost. It is not sufficient to prepare myself mentally and physically; I am not worthy of the blessing of parenthood unless I am living an exemplary life so that my behavior may serve as a pattern for the behavior of my children. If I am a wife, it is my duty to so live that my husband can truthfully say, "T want my daughters to grow up to be like their mother." If I am a husband, I owe it to my mate to so live that my wife can say with pride to our sons, "Follow in the footsteps of your father, make his habits your habits." True, I must be the partner of my mate, but I must be so much more than that term implies: I must be husband or wife, sweetheart, mother or father of our children, and a pal. When we face failures, great or small, I shall look first for the cause within myself, and without self-pity and with ample courage I shall assume my part of the responsibility. I shall be liberal in my forgiveness, remembering always that true forgiveness requires a consistent willingness to help the forgiven one so that the same offense will not be repeated. As a mate, it is my responsibility to serve as a constant inspiration, fairest and severest critic, strongest and most dependable backer, and trusted confidante. I must complement my mate's weakness with my strength; I must be the co-pilot, and when the way becomes dark and we are lost in fog I shall suggest that we kneel together in prayer, and in the presence of my mate I shall speak frankly concerning our difficulties to our Heavenly Father, plead for light and guidance and for His spirit to be with us. If I am unselfish, if I know my mate, if I exercise wisdom in matters of health, if I keep up with my mate in growth, if I am a worthy parent, and if I have faith in God and have His spirit with me I need have no fear that I shall fail in my responsibility to my mate. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 647 Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. In your opinion which mate is more responsible for creating the atmosphere of the home? Give reasons and examples of cases that justify your answer. 2. Which mate should assume the "initiative in promoting active participation of the family group in each of the following fields of activity: Religion, social contacts, education, recreation, economics. 3. Mrs. Rice complains and nags at Mr. Rice because she says he has changed from being the most courteous and gallant fiance to the most discourteous and ungallant husband. What would you do if Mr. Rice were your husband? Suppose that it was Mrs. Rice who had changed in a similar manner, what would you do? 4. Mr. Lee owned and operated a grocery store in a small rural community. At the time of his death Mrs. Lee had no knowledge of her husband's business or of his financial condition. 'There were three children ranging in ages from nine years to sixteen years. At the time of marriage, Mrs. Lee had had one year of college training. In what way, if any, does this case represent failure on the part of each mate? Mission Lessons L. D. S. CHURCH HISTORY Lesson 3 The Ancient Plates (To be used in place of Literary Lesson) a what did that golden book look like which Joseph Smith took out of that stone box in the Hill Cumorah on the morning of September 22, 1827? To answer this question, let us use Our imagination a little. Suppose, for one thing, that you take a piece of common tin, cut it into a sheet seven by eight inches, and color it so as to make it look like gold. Suppose, further, that you take enough sheets like that to make a book about six inches in thickness, put on them, if you can, lines of beautiful engravings, and then bind them all together by three rings at the side. Suppose, now, that you somehow seal a part of this book, so that the leaves cannot be turned by anyone. Having done all this, you will have as good a likeness as is possible of the book that had lain hidden in Cumorah for fourteen hundred years. One other thing, however, must be taken into consideration: If you wanted to read that book, and could do so, it would be necessary for you to turn to what we now call the last page and read gradually toward what we know as the beginning. That is not all. On the page you would have to read from right to left, not from left to right as we do 648 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE nowadays in English. That is because it would be a sort of Hebrew, or "reformed Egyptian", that you would be reading. Now do you have a picture of the Nephite Record as it was when the Prophet received it from Moroni? We may be sure that, when Joseph received the golden book from its heavenly keeper, his heart beat faster than it had ever done before. It was a priceless treasure. What would not the world have given for it! It was of gold, for one thing, and, for another, it was a message from an unknown people. What a trust to be given! It must have frightened the young man when he thought about the matter. He must not fail, come what might! Besides, had not the angel told him that, if he would do all in his power to carry on, God would do the rest? The work expected of Joseph had not been kept a secret. Who could keep such a secret under the circumstances? It was known, therefore, that he was to receive the plates from an angel, that they were of gold, and that they contained the history of the ancient Americans. All this was talked about in Manchester and Palmyra and other places near by in Wayne county. So some curious, designing neighbors lay in wait. Or were they only curious neighbors, after all? It mattered not. They made it necessary for Joseph to be ever on guard. "No sooner," says the Prophet, 'was it known that I had the plates than the most strenuous exertions were used to get them from me." On the way home he was attacked by some men. He got away, however, with no more hurt than a dislocated thumb. The plates were safe. After that, other attempts were made to find them in the house and in an old cooper shop across the road. Joseph decided that he must leave Manchester so as to obtain the necessary peace and quiet to translate the record. So he went to another State—Pennsylvania. On_ leaving Manchester he hid the golden book in a keg of beans. At length he arrived at Harmony, about one hundred and twenty-five miles away. Meantime, he had married. His wife was Emma Hale, the daughter of Isaac Hale, and her home, before her marriage, was in Harmony, now Oakland. This is why the Prophet went to that place. He had met her, two years before, when he went there to work and boarded at the home of her father. They were martied January 18, 1827. It was now December. Meantime, too, Joseph had worked to help the family and tu keep himself, for the Smiths were poor. There was a mortgage on the farm, and Alvin, the eldest son, on whom the family depended, had died when he was most needed. Sometimes Joseph worked on the farm, clearing the land of trees and brush, planting and reaping, and doing other things. Sometimes he did odd jobs for other farmers in the neighborhood—hauling firewood to Palmyra and digging wells. He was laboring for a man named Josiah Stoal at the time he first met Emma, in Harmony. But what with work, anxiety over the safety of the golden book, and the need of someone to write for him, he had been unable to do any translating, to speak of. Indeed, up to the end of the year, he had only copied some of the characters on the record and turned them into English. In Harmony he waited. First he had to get settled. He bought some land from his father-in-law and a yoke of oxen from his friend Stoal —all on time. And then he waited for someone who could act as his secretary. In April, 1829, after he had been in possession of the plates for eighteen months, Oliver Cowdery came along. Oliver had taught school in Manchester. Having some of the Smith children in his school, he thus became acquainted with the parents and learned from them the story of the golden book. - It was such a strange story that he prayed to know whether or not it was true. His prayer was answered to his satisfaction. So, in the spring when his school was out, he went to Harmony to act as scribe for the Prophet. In April, 1829, then, the translation of the Book of Mormon as we now have it was begun. Part of the translation was done in Harmony, but part of it was done in Fayette, New York State. For Joseph and Oliver had found it necessary to move from the first place to the second. As in Manchester, so in Harmony, people were curious and suspicious, to say the least. What were these young men doing behind closed doors? That is what their neighbors wanted to know. And they were so determined to find out that they made life uncomfortable for Joseph and his friend. Even Mr. Hale, Joseph's father-in-law, was at last won over to the side of those meddling neighbors. He had defended the young men at first. When matters became too disagreeable for them, they left Harmony. Fayette was the home of the Whitmer family. David, one of the sons, knew Oliver Cowdery very well. The two had met in Palmyra, a town not far away. When, therefore, Oliver decided to go to Harmony, it was agreed that the two should write to each other, and that is what they did. David became convinced that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet. And so it was only natural that, when a change of residence became necessary, Joseph and Oliver should be invited to the Whitmer home. While the translation was going on in Harmony, a Mr. Joseph Knight, who lived in Colesville, New York State, often took provisions to the sacred workers. Thus God moved in a mysterious way his wonders to perform! The work was finished during the early summer of 1829. As soon as the gold plates were translated, the Prophet began to look about for a publisher. After some difficulty it was decided to have the work done in Palmyra, on the Grandin press. But first a copy of the writing was made by Oliver Cowdery. It was this copy that the printer had. For Joseph had learned to be careful. The book appeared in March, 1830. It bore the title The Book of Mormon, by which name it has always been known. The printing of the new book was paid for by Martin Harris, who sold his farm to do so. He was paid back from the proceeds brought by the sale of the book. The price for each copy was $2.50.
650 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Questions
1. Describe, as nearly as you can, the appearance of the gold plates.
2. What was Joseph Smith to do with the ancient Record? What did Moroni tell him about the care of it? What steps did he take to preserve the book from the hands of others? Why did he leave Manchester? Where did he go? Why there?
3. Who was Oliver Cowdery? How did he become interested in Joseph's work? When was the translation begun? Where was it finished? How did Joseph and Oliver come to move to Fayette? About David Whitmer. Joseph Knight?
4. Where was the book published? Why was a copy of the manuscript made and by whom? When was the new book published? How was the printing paid for?
5. Trace the hand of God in this work from the time Joseph received the plates till the appearance of the book.
Note: Map printed in July magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons.
SHADES By Courtney Elizabeth Cottam
My neighbor Brown is stern and proud, And always airs her views aloud; She loathes the weak and erring way, "Right's easier than wrong," she'll say.
My neighbor Green is calm and mild, Her manners charming as a child; She props the weak and erring soul; "Not all are strong," she will extol.
My neighbor Brown is sure she's right, For black is black and white is white! My neighbor Green will smile and say, "Black mixed with white will make pearl-grey."
Beating Old Age
Is "getting old" an inevitable process which cannot be delayed? No, say modern scientists, whose research has shown that a good diet containing an abundance of milk and its products not only prolongs life itself, but also prolongs the prime of life— the period of healthy, enjoyable living. People who are before the American public frequently, and who must watch their diet to keep youthful, are daily users of fresh milk, because they have found that it contains the qualities necessary to keep them vigorous, youthful and healthy. What is there in milk that gives it such miraculous powers? Chiefly its calcium, say the scientists. This mineral is essential to health at all ages, and doctors are beginning to realize that many ailments commonly associated with old age are really due to a shortage of calcium and other minerals in the diet. Lack of vigor—brittle, easily fractured bones —premature old age—often may be traced to a poor diet. The best diet is one which is based on milk and its products, says the National Dairy Council, and moreover it is the only diet which is rich in calcium. One pint of milk contains as much of this valuable mineral as 15 to 20 ordinary servings of fruits and vegetables. Build your diet around milk and other dairy products and you will be rewarded by more years of health and youthful vigor.
Cloverlea IRRADIATED VITAMIN D MILK
"L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!" Start YOUR Business Career NOW
All the Year—Low Rates of Tuition. Ask for our 'Bulletin of Information." L. D. S. Business College 70 North Main St.—Salt Lake City, Utah
SAVE 10% ON A NEW GAS FURNACE Special Discount in Effect until November 1 Convenient Terms
Automatic Gas Heat need cost you no more than any other method. But how much more it gives you in ease and comfort! Take advantage of this special discount. Come in for complete information.
MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY Salt Lake—Ogden—Provo
As A Woman Eateth (Continued from page 614)
you'd have to fight is eating too much."
"Remember that story in Mutual," the Imp continued, "about the boy who had taken up bad habits after his brother was killed in a drunken wreck, hearing that brother's voice begging for just one puff of his cigarette? He woke up and quit. He didn't want to go through eternity craving tobacco. Do you want to be resurrected with seventy-five or more pounds of surplus fat cells craving food?"
"Maybe I won't be fat when I'm resurrected. Some one said in Sunday School that we'd look our very best, and people who are crippled and deformed may, through righteousness, receive perfected bodies then. If God can perform the miracle of resurrecting us at all, He can surely perfect our bodies as He does it."
"Christ was resurrected with the scars of His wounds. Why should He slenderize your body if you have willfully fattened it, when you know better? If they who are filthy shall be filthy still, why should not they who are fat be fat still? If you had defective glands, like poor Bertha,— but you only have defective will power."
"Oh, shut up! I have other things to think about."
May was at the big department store now, where she was to see the repair man about her electric ironer, and the Imp was hushed for a few moments. The repair man was out for an hour, so she went to the ready-to-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 653
wear department, where the Imp returned to his heckling again.
"Think you'd better try on a thirty-six like you used to?" he quizzed. "Even last year a thirty-six was too tight where you store your fat. And you've put seventeen pounds more between your waistline and your knees since then. Better try forties!"
She ignored his jibes and selected three thirty-eights that were marvelous bargains. The saleslady looked dubious as May took them to try on, but said nothing. The first one would not pull down below the waist. The next was cut fuller in the skirt, but fitted so tightly every curve bulged. May did not try the third. How the Imp chortled as she took them back and selected forty-twos!
"Have another bar of candy!" he sneered. "Little bites of candy, tastes of this and that, make a slender lady grow so nice and fat! Get a forty-eight!"
The forty-twos were fine from the waist down, slightly large at the waist, too long in the skirt, and positively sloppy in the upper regions. But May would take in the sleeves, shorten the shoulders and skirt, and cut out the extra cloth under the arms. She loved that saleslady for her tact in not smiling. Her smitten vanity lulled, by thinking how nice she could make the dresses look, May went to see if the repair man had returned. He hadn't. Where could she rest her feet while she waited? The furniture department! She tried out this chair, watched a young couple choose rugs, moved to that davenport. Soon the feet were rested, but the man was not in yet. It was so hot! Wandering here and there, she discovered the breeze from the artificial cooling system and stopped. There was no chair in the path of the breeze, but she could stand a while for the sake of coolness. Directly in front of her was a bedroom vanity with a full length mirror. She was far enough back from it to get a good perspective of herself, and others were passing by to afford vivid comparisons. This dress, with its bias-cut skirt and its large print bouquets on a light turquoise background, was perfectly chosen to throw into full value every ounce that shouldn't have been there. Looking, she listened to the Imp now without a word of argument, but with a hot flame of anger burning within her heart. Anger against herself!
"Not drugs! Not glands! Just plain greediness! From the waist up and from the knees down, lovely; but from the waist to the hips! Aren't you a fine figger-of-a-woman! Don't you look young and slender? Not nicotine, nor alcohol, nor caffeine, nor tannin! Just food! Common, ordinary, delicious food! That is what has you whipped! When you get up from the table you feel as stuffy as you look. Greedy-gut!" he taunted inelegantly.
"Why don't you do something about it? Can't you?"
"I can!" May resolved. "I'll figure out how much I eat for an average meal and spread it over three meals. I won't talk about it, I'll just do it. I have as much self-control as a new convert! I'll get myself down to 130 pounds and stay there. I'll show you!"
The repair man came at last, and May finished her shopping and went home to set about showing her Imp. Five pounds a month she consumed off her own storage. When she felt her anger cooling, she sought a full-length mirror and stared at herself until it blazed hot again. It was a triumphant day when the scales finally stopped at 130. That stuffy feeling was gone. She felt young and energetic. Exercise didn't seem so formidable. So she toiled to harden the flabby remainder on her hips, twisted to tighten up the muscles about her waist, and practiced the windmill toe-touch for back and abdomen. A year later, she stood before the same mirror in the same department store wearing a new thirty-six dress which fitted a trifle more loosely than fashion decreed, and whispered to the Imp.
"Well, did I show you?"
And the Imp said, "You showed the world, lady! You licked the old appetite! And if you keep it licked, you'll be looking like this on the resurrection morn. So long! I'll be seein' you then!"
QUALITY FABRICS FOR BURIAL CLOTHING ZCMI specializes in fine quality materials for Temple Robes and for Burial Clothing of distinctive beauty. The final tribute to a loved one should be of supreme quality in every detail. You can rely on materials such as these to help make it so. Write Margot Manners at ZCMI for samples and prices of these fine quality materials.
ZCMI America's First Dept. Store
Our New, Convenient, Inexpensive ready-made Binder for keeping your Relief Society Magazines readily accessible with a minimum of trouble. These binders are durable, attractive, and so made that a whole year's issues can be conveniently kept, issue by issue, ready for immediate reference. And the price is only $1.00 per binder!
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah Prompt Attention Given to Mail Orders and Inquiries When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Fine Quality Linenette.................. Yd. 35c Fine Quality Gabardine................ Yd. 39c Fine Quality Broadcloth.............. Yd. 35c Fine Quality Cotton Voile............ Yd. 39c Fine Quality Batiste....................... Yd. 59c Non-crushable Celanese Voile.. Yd. 65c
A TRUSTED GUARDIAN Life Insurance can't be more devoted to its beneficiary than this guardian of his master's family, but it provides just as faithful a protection, in a less spectacular, but more practical way
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah
Who ever thought the Relief Society Magazine would be on trial? Well it is, and the advertisers listed below are the judges. They want some real evidence that their ads are seen and read—some of them are in for the first time and if they are convinced that the ads in the Relief Society Magazine influence your buying the Magazine will be acquitted and the advertisers will be happy to continue a profitable association.
Index to Advertisers Beneficial Life Insurance Company............ Back Cover Deseret Book Store.......................... Inside Back Cover Deseret News Press.......................... Inside Back Cover Ex-cel-sis Beauty School............................ 728 Fisher Master Bakers.............................. 653 Moffatt Bible....................................... 658 L. D. S. Business College.......................... 653 Utah Power & Light Co........................... 728
THE MOFFATT BIBLE A New Translation of the Scriptures By JAMES MOFFATT
PRESENTING the Scriptures in matchless modern prose and poetry, THE MOFFATT BIBLE has come to be considered a necessity in the home by all types of readers throughout the English-speaking world. Enjoy it, as millions already are doing, for its clearness, literary beauty and inspiration. Ask your bookseller to show you the many handsome editions of THE MOFFATT BIBLE, or write for Free descriptive circular.
Harper & Brothers, 49 East 33rd Street, New York City.
Many Editions: THE MOFFATT BIBLE is available in a variety of editions for all purposes. The extremely popular cloth edition with a striking gold jacket is priced at $3.50. Leather bound editions are priced from $5.00. THE MOFFATT NEW TESTAMENT is printed in two type sizes and bound in paper, cloth, imitation leather and leather, priced from 60 cents.
"The greatest translation of the Bible made by the man most ably prepared to translate it."—JOHN HENRY JOWETT
BIBLE Unanimous Praise
HARRY EMERSON FOSDICK "This translation is bound to win its way into the general reading of the people."
H. V. MORTON "There is no other book like it. Every scholar knows it and every reader of the Scriptures should possess it. I would not be without it."
ROBERT M. HOPKINS "In my judgment, the most satisfying presentation of The Word of God in the English language."
LESLIE A. WEATHERHEAD "It has done more than any other influence to make people begin again to read the Bible."
Special Item: THE PARALLEL TESTAMENT contains the Moffatt Translation and the King James Version in parallel columns. Unsurpassed for study purposes and as an introduction to the Moffatt Translation. $1.00.
"L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!" Start YOUR Business Career NOW 70 North Main St.—Salt Lake City, Utah
Fisher's Vitamin D Bread is pure, wholesome, delicious. It helps build good teeth and strong bones. Look for it at your grocers!
Product of the FISHER MASTER BAKERS
All the Year—Low Rates of Tuition. Ask for our 'Bulletin of Information." L. D. S. Business College
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XXVI OCTOBER, 1939 No. 10
Contents
Special Features Frontispiece—An Autumn Sonnet........................Olive C. Wehr 656 The Life-Centered Approach To Religion.................Dr. M. Lynn Bennion 657 Woman As An Interpreter of the Faith....................Maude B. Jacob 661 European Mission Presidents' Conference.......................... 666 On The Way To Persia................................Estelle S. Harris 670 Good Taste in Home Decoration........................I. A. Fisher 683 The Relief Society and The Welfare Plan................Roscoe W. Eardley 687
Fiction A Rest For Rose Ellen..............................Mabel S. Harmer 674 The Shining Heart (Concluded)........................Sibyl S. Bowen 694
General Features Just A Bundle Of Nerves...........................Alice Morrey Bailey 680 Happenings.....................................Annie Wells Cannon 690 Editorials: Judging Values; "Muddling Through"................691, 692 Membership Top-Notchers...........................Rae B. Barker 693 Notes from the Field..............................Julia A. F. Lund 698 Mormon Handicraft................................Nellie O. Parker 703 Music Department—Uses of the Baton..................Wade N. Stephens 704
Lessons Theology—Saul the Pharisee and Persecutor......................... 705 Messages to the Home—Gifts................................... 708 Literature—Les Miserables.................................... 709 Social Service—Psychology of Resisting Sales Pressure................ 713 Family Relations—The Place of the Father In The Home................ 719 Mission—Our Book of Mormon.................................. 724
Poetry An Autumn Sonnet..............................Olive C. Wehr 656 Grace.......................................Celia A. Van Cott 665 Melody......................................Mabel Jones 669 Trust.......................................Lydia Hall 679 Cheer.......................................Kathleen B. Nelson 682 My Memory...................................LaVina Dodge Moeller 686 Autumn......................................Beatrice Rordame Parsons 689 Rain........................................Claire S. Boyer 702 Autumn In The Southwest.........................Sadie Ollorton Clark 673
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once. Giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
"When yellow hue the garnered gems of gold; With feast and song and shout Is nature's boldest triumph told." —Whittier, "Harvest Hymn."
AN AUTUMN SONNET
The scattered leaves, wind-drifted, flutter by— Dead whispers from a recent, living past; Their red-gold beauty spent too soon, too fast, Now paupers, scorned and brushed aside they lie. 'Tis autumn—all things must fade and die, Till stripped all naked, leaf by leaf, at last The trembling earth, aware, shivers aghast; The only answer is the wild bird's cry. 'Tis autumn—aloud my heavy heart cries out A protest that beauty and life must go, And knows again the age-old fears, the doubt; The only answer is a whisper low: When spring shall come again and buds new sprout, Can you deny what love would have you know?
—Olive C. Wehr.
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVI OCTOBER, 1939 No. 10
The Life-Centered Approach to Religious Education By Dr. M. Lynn Bennion (Supervisor of Seminaries, Church Department of Education)
THE paramount concern of we who teach the Gospel is that our instruction be reflected positively in the lives and conduct of our students. We seek a definite correlation between our teaching and growth toward higher moral and spiritual levels of behavior. We cannot be contented with religious instruction resulting in the acquisition of information and knowledge but minus any improvement in character and conduct. We recognize, of course, the limitations of the Church or any other single agency as an influence in character development. The time devoted to the Church program by children and youth is an insignificant part of their total time; and, furthermore, highly potent forces affecting character are at work the rest of the time. Further, the character-forming process is so complex that we must, if we are to be effective, utilize for constructive purposes all the educational agencies. The school, the church, and the community should not only find their own particular distinctive functions in the light of the needs of youth, but they should seek in genuinely cooperative fashion to strengthen and support the great primary force for character development; namely, the home. The teaching of our Church auxiliaries and our seminaries and institutes, if properly done, should be reflected in the home, school, and leisure-time experiences of youth. A discussion on prayer in the classroom should culminate in the evaluation of present prayer practices and plans for their future improvement. A discussion on keeping the Sabbath Day holy should be counted unfruitful unless it eventuates in heightening and enriching the spiritual activities of the Sabbath Day. In other words, there must be the right combination of discussion and doing to be effective. Our task, therefore, is not limited to instruction in the Bible, theology, or the history of the Church. Students may score well on the content of these courses and still not be materially enriched in their lives. In fact, recent research has revealed a lack of correlation between religious teaching and conduct which should give every re-
658 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ligious educator cause for serious consideration.* Students, furthermore, often lack interest in our lessons simply because they see no relationship between them and their own ongoing lives. One test, therefore, for deciding the inclusion or exclusion of a given subject in the course of study must be its significance for living the religious life today. We must constantly seek ways and means of integrating teaching and living. To enlist the interests and purposes of youth we must center our lessons in the realities of life. We must also stimulate thinking about life's serious problems. Christ habitually provoked men to think for themselves, sometimes by calling on the questioner to answer his own question: "Who thinkest thou was neighbor to him that fell among the thieves?" Sometimes he put questions to his audience and invited their answer: "What think ye of Christ? Whose Son is He?" We must, furthermore, relate thinking to doing. In the words of the Scripture, our students, if they are to develop a living religion within themselves, must: "Be doers of the Word, and not hearers only." Our problem is not the lesson primarily but the student, the immortal spirit who must grow and develop from within through self-impelled activity. His total life and environment is our great concern—a life and living—both of which are dynamic. We must seek to guide growing persons toward great ideals and only by the "mustard seed plan" can healthy change occur. We must be content patiently to motivate students toward a consciousness of God as a reality in their lives and an appreciation of their personal relationship to Him as children. Religious education seeks to bring the achieving powers of man, his capacity to think, discover values, erect ends and form judgments, into cooperation with the spiritual resources of God. Man so energized has within him "the power of God unto salvation". This, then, is the life-centered, functional approach to religious education. Blessed is the teacher who can, through his insight, knowledge, and love, awaken and stimulate these divine forces in his students.
THE test of our teaching from this point of view is not what an individual has learned or the theories he has evolved for himself, but what he has become through
*Hartshorne and May, Studies in Deceit; Studies in Service and Self Control; Studies in the Organization of Character. For a brief report see, "A Summary of the Work of the Character Education Inquiry," Religious Education, September-October 1930. Thrasher, Frederic M., "The Boys' Club and Juvenile Delinquency," American Journal of Sociology, July, 1936 Hartshorne and Lotz, Case Studies of Present-day Religious Teaching; Hartshorne, Stearns, and Uphaus, Standards and Trends in Religious Education; Hartshorne and Ehrhart, Church Schools of Today; Hartshorne and Miller, Community Organization in Religious Education. Jones, Vernon, Character and Citizenship Training in the Public Schools. Shaw, Clifford R., Delinquency Areas; Shaw and McKay, Social Factors in Juvenile Delinquency. Published by the National Commission on Law Observance and Enforcement. Dimock, Hedley S., Rediscovering the Adolescent.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 659
the application of truth. The truly religious person is recognized less by what he believes than by the way he dedicates his life to fulfilling his beliefs. Only when we have found values that evoke our total capacity for devotion have we truly found our religion. To find such values calls for constant growth and reconstruction of life as higher and nobler insights are discovered and adopted. Great is the joy that comes when out of hard study and right living are evolved convictions which give life meaning and direction. The Apostle was undoubtedly speaking of this inward spiritual growth toward godhood when he said, "Eye hath not seen nor ear heard, neither hath entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for those who love him." We live in an experimental age when people want to apply the pragmatic test to decide whether a thing is true and valid. Does it work? Christ invited that test. He said: "If any man will do my will he shall know of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." Thousands have done His will and know of a surety that His doctrine is of God. Our great challenge as teachers is to motivate young people to want to make this test. If we can so control their environment and guide their experiences as to lead them in the way of the Savior, they will soon begin to feel and know the concomitant joy and satisfaction that accompany this way of life and thus be stimulated to go on and on toward better things. To help them profit by the disastrous effects of sin and to be guided and stimulated by those who have traveled the ways of righteousness and joy, we must guide them to the Bible and other great resources of spiritual direction. But why go to a book as ancient as the Bible to solve the problems of present-day living? Simply, because the Bible touches the heartstrings of life. It records faithfully the experiences of men and women in their search for happiness and in their strivings for God. These experiences touch the good and the evil; they reach from the depths of the most sordid crime to a glimpse of the eternal. The Bible is a great laboratory of life where the details of the experiments with life are not stinted or the results camouflaged. Neither have the experiments of men with lies, hypocrisy, cheating, stealing, adultery, murder, truth, goodness, mercy, kindness, forgiveness, prayer, and all the tendencies of humanity been so faithfully chronicled or so graphically portrayed as in the Bible. Out of those experiences truths of God stand forth in stark reality, signposts to all subsequent civilizations. Out of the strivings of these people to find and serve God has come, finally pieced together bit by bit, a picture so wholesome, so loving, so intimate, as to turn the hearts of men to their Father in understanding worship. It is an ancient saying: "Experience is a dear school, but fools will learn in no other." It would be utter foolishness to disregard the experiences of other men and women. The boy who would learn all his knowledge of mathematics from his own experience would perhaps get little further than the multiplication tables in a life-time. In all scien-
660 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tific fields we accept the truth which past experiments have revealed, and we progress from there. The young man or woman who insists upon learning the sweetness of virtue and the bitterness of immorality through his or her own experience and who turns deaf ears to the experiences of the past has indeed entered a school of fools. It is the high privilege and responsibility of Church teachers to use the great moral and spiritual experiences of the race to stimulate youth to enter into wholesome spiritual experiences whereby they may sense the joy of fellowship with God without passing through the bitterness which inevitably accompanies the unaided search for happiness. In this function the Bible proves a veritable storehouse of experimentation. It is like the carefully written chemistry manual which aids the students to learn the laws of gases and chemicals without the bitterness of blinded eyes and acid-burned hands.
BY way of summary, then, teachers in all of the educational activities of the Church should repeatedly ask themselves the questions: What is my objective in teaching this particular lesson? What is it that I would have my pupils do, or do differently than before? What information and what activities will best contribute toward the change I wish to make? These questions must be answered before the materials for the lesson can be wisely selected or properly used. Those who have attempted to teach astronomy, botany, zoology, or the history of nations through the Bible have either found it greatly lacking in material or have left a warped or stunted picture in the minds of students. The Bible is not adequate material for such objectives, for it does not purport to teach the secrets of the heavens or the earth but the secrets of the human heart. It is not a history of mankind upon the earth or even a history of the Hebrew people, although it contains useful material for both. It is primarily concerned with individuals and those problems of individual conduct which are as old as the race and as new as the toddling child. Present-day teaching also centers in these eternal problems. For example, the primary objective in teaching the story of Joseph must be not to increase the student's knowledge of Egyptian history but to impress upon the youthful mind through vicarious experience the eternal truth that cheerfulness, purity of thought, and faith in God bring the only lasting happiness, and the person who possesses these qualities in rich abundance can never be kept down. The story must be used only as a means to prepare students to face the problems which Joseph in Egypt faced. Subject matter enters the teaching process not as an end in itself but as a means of furthering and enriching present individual and social life. The first and last concern of religious teaching is the growing life of the boy or the girl.
Woman As An Interpreter Of The Faith By Maude B. Jacob
"Education is the power to think clearly, the power to act well in the world's work, and the power to appreciate life."—Brigham Young.
TO education has been given the credit for making the woman of today. Education has not only found new powers within woman, but it has found new uses for her powers. The achievements of woman in every age have been the product of her capacities and her opportunities. Her opportunities for education came with the last century. Freedom for self-realization has grown rapidly in this age. New powers, new opportunities, new freedom directed by her spiritual powers will fit woman for one of her greatest roles, "the refiner of civilization". Education is as old as the race, its task being that of patterning lives. In tribal tents, in igloos and boweries, in cabin homes and in million-dollar buildings lives have been patterned. Customs, beliefs, and ideals have played a significant part in the patterning, and still do. Thus, education has passed through many changes in its adjustments to the changing values of life. It is the ever-changing intellectual, social, and material needs of each age that have builded the formal pattern of today's education. During the past few decades, a never-ceasing process of evaluation has been in progress. Those individuals and organizations who are concerning themselves with individual progress and happiness are keenly alert to the challenges of the modern world. One of the most comprehensive statements of the general objectives of education today is the statement: "Education in the broad sense is the process whereby individuals develop in personality through interaction and relationship with their environment—material, human, and divine—and whereby society renews its life and brings about its refinement and progress." By the side of this statement, we place that of Brigham Young quoted above. It is the statement of a man whose days spent in formal education numbered less than a dozen, but which under divine guidance continued for well over half a century. According to the formal statement, lives are to be patterned for successful living and for the refinement of society. From the divinely inspired statement, we know that the appreciation of life includes the truth that man's eternal progress and happiness is predicated upon the experience and wisdom gained during earth-life. If, then, earth-life is God's school, what then is the supreme role of education? Today as never before the product of education is being scrutinized. The complexities of modern life are creating new challenges for young and old alike. It is natural, then, that the system developed to pattern life for successful living should discover its strengths and its weaknesses. Sat-
662 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
isfaction comes from the glorious opportunities given to modern youth to meet life more adequately equipped than any generation before. The alarm which exists in the minds of many is the failure of information to assist in the formation of wholesome attitudes, of high ideals and the control of appetites and passions, impulses and desires. A most significant statement of alarm has been made recently: "A large part of the youth of America at the present time are unaccustomed to discipline in thought and life. Their education is lacking in those activities which develop intellectual vigor, power of decision, restraint, and concentration with a view to finding successful solutions to the problems they are encountering in living in the world today." It would seem then that formal education is failing in helping young people in general to think clearly and to act wisely. How shall this challenge be met? Formal education has its responsibility. But to the home and the church comes the responsibility of bringing to education its spiritual values, "the power to appreciate life". PERHAPS the greatest immediate need of all lives, young as well as old, is direction for the control of human desires. For this task, information alone is inadequate; values must be designated and self-control must be motivated through attitudes and ideals. Today, an analysis of the paramount desires of mankind are health, security, success, and pleasure. The business of the world is organized to meet the needs and satisfaction of mankind. The greatest human need, security of living, is being met more adequately than ever before. Selling new desires by business, to use the products of industry, is utilizing all the available educational resources. Definitely planned campaigns suggest to us what to eat and what to wear, not in terms of need always but in terms of what industry has to sell. The lure of automobile advertising is _ evident on all sides. For several years the tobacco industry has employed every available means to increase the consumption of its products, musical programs and advertising being the chief vehicles. The subtlety of it all is revealed in the billboard advertising: First, it portrayed a beautiful girl admiring a young man smoking; next, the girl was being handed a cigarette; finally, the girl is smoking. What was happening in the interim of the development of this desire by industry? Science continued to publish the facts concerning the evil effects of tobacco. Parents and leaders pleaded and denounced in turn. What of formal education? Had the educational forces used the same skill as industry had used to promote the desire to smoke to direct understanding, to cultivate attitudes and to stimulate idealism for the control of behavior, the problem would not be as alarming as it is today. The challenge is obvious, new vision and new direction to meet this and many other desires that individuals must control if growth and happiness are to be attained. To pattern lives, lives must be touched. A professor of literature, from whose lectures students must be driven to attend the other classes for which they arescheduled, has this for his teaching guide: "Keep away RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 663 from young minds unless you have something inspiring to impart." To the hundreds of Wellesley young women who came under her care, Alice Freeman Palmer was a true inspirer. As she herself expressed it, "I am trying to make girls wiser and happier. It is people who count, you -want to put yourself into people; they touch other people, then others still, and so you go on working forever." Her greatest admirer, her husband, said of this great teacher, "She adopted the idea of Jesus that if you would remold the world, the wise way is to devote your time to friendly talks with a dozen young fishermen." The Alice Freeman Palmer Memorial at Wellesley has a message for all teachers as vital as methods of this great teacher. At one side of the altar with its flame representing knowledge stands a young girl who has just lighted her lamp. In the center of the monument is a beautiful feminine form with one hand resting on the girl's shoulder, directing her into the future—a fitting memorial to one who lovingly and earnestly in- ' spired the lives of those whom she touched as she pointed out to them a worthy pattern of living. The lovying tenderness of the Teacher of Galilee made of simple fishermen the greatest heroes of Christianity. THE natural conclusion — that comes from an analysis of the challenges of modern life is that life today demands a higher degree of sublimation than ever before. The Pioneers were not concerned with automobiles and movies. A wagon and team was to them the greatest of travel convenience; a rag or husking bee and an occasional dance on a dirt floor to the light of burning logs or tallow candles provided the finest in recreation. Life for them demanded courage and fortitude, but the greatest challenge was the physical environment to be conquered. Individual challenges and handicaps have been met heroically in all ages. John Milton, the poet, met his blindness nobly with verse of greater grandeur and to nobler purpose. Beethoven and Dvorak, the musicians, created greater harmonies because of their deafness; the heroic struggles of Helen Keller and Laura Dewey Bridgeman are known universally, while every day in every part of the world men and women in every station of life are becoming conquerors, subduing self and rising above their difficulties through their spiritual reinforcements. Again the question must be considered, is the apparent lack of the necessary sublimation for the challenges of today in reality a weakening of spirituality? Is the weakening of spirituality as George Meredith defined it, "For this reason man falls from God, that they cling to Him in their weakness rather than in their strength"? In other words, it is reasonable to assume that the spirituality needed to meet the challenges of this age is inadequate. To the women of today comes the challenge to direct all the educational forces available to the achievement of patterning lives more effectively for complete living. This can be woman's great adventure in education. Educating herself, of necessity, will be part of the task; training herself to think clearly, to understand the forces that build attitudes and ideals and those that create desires 664 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and direct inpulses; to appreciate life with all its facets. For her, understanding must follow on the heels of knowledge; poise and self-control must refine her own actions, and her recourse to divine guidance must be sincere and constant. Then, her life will be as a light set upon a hill for the women of her own generation. This task will fall to the ordinary woman. It is this woman, not the professional woman who busies herself with many specialized services, the average woman who makes or unmakes life for us. They are the women who carry the burdens of the world—the homemakers. Because the homemakers are realizing their responsibilities outside the home as well as inside the home, because they are availing themselves of the opportunities of education, and because with all the newness and opportunity that has come to them they still cling heroically to the highest ideals of living, they can become the servants of all. The teachings, activities, and experiences of the Church are inspired guidance to the women of the Church to become, in very deed, a beacon light in this great cause. The sublime truth given to the Prophet Joseph Smith "the glory of God is intelligence" was the initial motivation of education to the Latter-day Saints. Believing sincerely that earthlife was in reality God's school which would carry man along the eternal path of progress, education has been a sacred obligation to them. The history of the early settlements of the Church, Kirtland, Independence, Far West, Nauvoo, Winter Quarters, and all early settlements of Utah reveals that schools were planned as homes were being built. When Brigham Young commissioned that great teacher Karl G. Maeser to direct the general activities of the Church, he did not designate subjects or textbooks; his only command was, "Teach nothing, not even the multiplication table, without the Spirit of God." Today, the Sunday Schools, other auxiliary organizations and the seminaries and institutes carry on the religious education program of the Church for all its members that through their reactions and relationships to their environment, material, human, and divine, they are progressing toward eternal perfection and happiness. THINKING of the Relief Society and its part in the educational program of the Church, we appreciate more completely how sincerely and courageously it is attempting to meet the greatest of all objectives, to bring to all women a true appreciation of life. This great school for the women of the Church was divinely inspired. In this school again it is the average woman who, fills the role of teacher. Ever mindful that facts are only valuable as they are an aid in interpreting life, she prepares her lessons amidst the manifold duties of everyday life. Her sincere desire to touch the lives of the women of her association helps her to surmount any obstacles of academic experience. With recourse to divine guidance and the counsel of her leaders she carries the torch of a great cause, the cause of individual progress and happiness. There comes to all women a new opportunity, to become a motivating force to aid all the educational forces available to pattern young lives RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 665 for complete living. In this role, like Deborah of old, she can with moral energy and spiritual guidance become a crusader in a great cause. Other women and other organizations must be brought to a realization of the place of education in the welfare of mankind, the need of a 'more intelligent understanding of the conflicts of modern life, and the possibilities of a more vital and more inspired approach to the problems of human and social progress. In this way women may render aid in the great task of education—the trefinement of society and the happiness of mankind. The spiritual powers of women are most important for the future of civilization. Wisely directed the energies of the woman-power of the Church are a great force. Thus can the women of the Church turn all the powers of their womanhood to the interpretation of their Faith that all may come to a true appreciation of life. GH INTERIM By Celia A. Van Cott Last night the frost came pitiless and still, Grim winter spread his vengeance on the land; A crystal moon hung ice upon the hill And death defied all beauty with his hand. A rose hung lifeless in the garden row; A maple stood denuded of each leaf— Swift transition from summer's mellow glow This swath of death and poignant winter grief. I could not bear this lonely solitude, Nor winter's icy breath upon our hill, Nor could I bear the muted interlude Or feel content without the songbird's trill, Unless I knew that God healed earthly pain; That life will throb when springtime comes again. European Mission Presidents' Conference N_ interesting and revealing A glimpse of the spirit with which Relief Society work is carried forward in the European Missions, as well as the splendid leadership found there, comes to us in a letter from Sister Zina Y. C. Brown, President of the Relief Societies of the British Mission, in her report of the Mission Presidents' Conference, held recently in Lucerne, Switzerland. President and Sister Thomas McKay were the gracious hosts. Mission Presidents and their wives from all of the European Missions assembled in this picturesque location. Morning, afternoon, and evening sessions, characterized by genuine religious fervor, were held. Inspiring addresses, special instructions and reports were given. In addition to the Conference sessions, an afternoon spent on Lake Lucerne, a two-hour trip to Wagner's home, which is now an interesting museum containing one of his pianos, some original compositions and family portraits, a trip by cog-wheel train up the Alps where they gathered Alpine flowers and viewed the lofty peaks in all their glistening splendor, furnished delightful entertainment. Quoting from Sister Brown's letter: "Best of all, we felt close to our Creator and were stirred by emotions and thoughts that are difficult to voice but which put one in harmony with God's great plan for us, His children. The close and lasting friendships formed with our fellow workers in this part of the Lord's vineyard are so precious! I, for one, cannot be grateful enough for these experiences." Elder Joseph Fielding Smith and his wife were in attendance at the Conference. The wise counsel and blessing of Elder Smith, together with the beautiful singing of Sister Smith, brought joy to all assembled. Each Relief Society president reported her mission, bringing to the Conference her vision and also her own "brand" of enthusiasm. Each brought to the Conference something beyond price, and everyone present found her own personal store of blessings added to. THE quality of leadership and the outstanding accomplishments found among the Relief Society Presidents of the European Mission is revealed in comments made by Sister Brown: "Sister Toronto has borne two children since coming to the Czech Mission, the youngest arriving during the dark days of that land. When she arose to speak, she strove to hide the depth of her emotion. Her intense, almost passionate, loyalty to the Saints there could not be hidden. I have never been privileged to know a Latter-day Saint couple more unswerving in the discharge of appoint- Ida D. Rees, Norma S. Evans, Zina C. Brown, Margaret M. Peterson, Evelyn Wood, Jessie E. Smith, Claire T. Murdock, Virginia B. Larson, Martha S. Toronto, Gertrude R. Garff, ed responsibility than the Torontos. They have gone through so much and yet refuse to acknowledge that they have done anything unusual. Sister Toronto speaks the Czech language ably. Besides her other accomplishments in that mission, she has left the Relief Society there a fine handbook in their native tongue. "Sister Rees (East German) has worked untiringly. One of her innovations was the training of the elders in Relief Society work. When she was unable to contact the sisters in their meetings, Sister Rees sent the elders to make the visits and bring back reports. She and President Rees have labored under constant awn B. McKay strain and have been blessed with great wisdom. "The dear faithful Petersons (Norwegian), solid and dependable as the 'Rock of Gibralter'! Their reports showed a marked improvement of conditions in general. Sister Peterson has worked hard for all the auxiliaries and has brought about excellent cooperation in their work. The Relief Society will lose a noble leader when she returns home this summer. She radiates sunshine, her big heart and sense of humor endearing her to all. "The Evans (French) are another splendid family. We miss Brother and Sister Ursenbach. Sister Ursenbach had the love of all the Saints 668 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and the missionaries. It seems as if her mantle has fallen upon Sister Evans, for the fame of her sweetness and hospitality has already gone abroad. The Evanses are capable mission parents and are delving into every phase of that mission's needs. They are establishing a fine mission home in Paris. They have occupied it about three months but are still hard at work creating a home of elegance and refinement-—and on the smallest sum of money imaginable. The atmosphere is entirely French. The exquisite, crystal lighting fixtures, needle-point coverings for the drawing room, furniture, carpets and tugs are all 'finds' hunted out by Sister Evans and secured at auction. The furnishing of that house would make a story as interesting as fiction. The marble stairway leads onto a little balcony where one can look down into the beautiful drawing-room. All the other rooms show the same harmony in the selection of furniture and hangings as does the livingroom. Two lovely daughters add to the charm of the home. They are as practical as they are charming, too. They and their brother have played a big part in working the magic of that house. "Sister Murdock of the Netherlands Mission is accomplishing a great deal. Her big contribution this year is a hymn book translated into the Dutch language. She worked eighteen months preparing it, proof reading the music and words three times before sending it to press. Making the selection of hymns was a tedious part of this project. It took ingenuity to ascertain the favorite songs of the people. Another basis for her choice was suitability and beauty of the song itself. The Murdocks have translated The Way to Perfection and have also published a very fine yearbook. Sister Larson (Swedish) has done outstanding work with her chorus. She has organized, trained and directed choruses which have sung before important audiences. She and President Larson have given intelligent and abundant service. Their mission term, now ending, will ever be a record period for that mission. "Sister Gertrude Ryberg Garff (Danish), another of our young matrons, brings to her position all the poise and understanding of one twice her years, coupled with the energy of youth. She is literally building the people body and soul. She has prepared a four-page diet guide for the missionaries. This has been mimeographed and prepared to fit the missionaries' loose-leaf book. With her expert knowledge of foods, this should prove to be a priceless help. We shall adopt it in the British Mission. She is also giving food demonstrations to the women, who are enthusiastic about it. This naturally brings her into close contact with the women, and she has gained their confidence and love. "Sweet, brilliant Sister Wood holds one spellbound relating the things being accomplished in the West German Mission. Listening to her makes one feel as if he were emerging into pleasant meadows. She has dramatized many _ beautiful truths. Her story illustrating the beauty of purity of life, which she demonstrated with a fluff of white cotton and the perfect rose, is one of her methods of teaching a message. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 669 For one conference she wrote a play about a branch family, demonstrating the power of cooperation. Each of us thrilled to her gifts and felt proud of her and her accomplishments. The faith and works of the Woods is bringing results. "The welding of parts of missions into one big mission has been no 'easy task. Our beloved Sister Kelly would be very grateful to see her dreams coming true for those Saints. It is a great wrench when the various missions change leaders and our old friends return to Zion; but God raises up someone else, and the work goes forward. "Sister McKay, so genuine and truly fine, was the perfect hostess. One feels the refining and cultural influence of her presence, and recognizes her to be an ideal Latter-day Saint wife and mother. Her appreciation of the beautiful was reflected in the places she planned for us to see. One instinctively drew near to catch her understanding observations. Sister McKay has prepared a book outlining European travel that is filling a long-felt need. It is a perfect guide for returning missionaries and will facilitate matters greatly for both missionary and mission president. All of the most noted places are listed, prices of hotels and pensions given; there is even a wellmarked map within its pages. Sister McKay was assisted in this by her daughter Barbara. "WE are delighted with the present lesson set-up for the coming season's work. We have joined the ranks of the Magazine users. We are thankful to announce that we no longer have to print a lesson manual. The 1939-40 lessons have already been enthusiastically welcomed by the district supervisors to whom they were previewed at our Mission Conference by members of our Mission Relief Society Board. "Wonderful work is being done by all of the wives of the mission presidents. They are all concerned for the missionaries' welfare and are doing all in their power to strengthen both the character and _testimony of each one, that he may be trained for the ministry and for life itself. These women are meeting the challenge of their positions in a manner that leaves no room for criticism. "There is a spirit of unity and cooperation among all the mission heads. Our hearts are filled with grattude for the many blessings that are an accompaniment of this calling. SILENCE Christ sought the mountain's solitude And there His touch with God renewed. So I to meet each daily care Refresh my strength in silent prayer. —Mabel Jones. On The Way To Persia By Estelle S. Harris THE desire to go places seems to be almost universal. Knowing that only a few of the readers of this magazine will be able to go to far-off Persia in person, I am sending a few notes to help them make this interesting journey in imagination. From western America, Persia, or Iran as it is now officially known, is almost half way around the world and so situated in relation to travel routes that it is considered the most remote post to which our diplomatic representatives are sent. From the Bible and Ancient History we have read about the Medes and Persians; we know about Cyrus the Great and Darius. More recently, we have heard of Persian gardens and rugs, of dates and melons, but almost everything about this land has always seemed remote and uncertain. My husband* having been given a commission to serve as advisor to the government of Iran, we left Provo, Utah, on the evening of July 15, 1939, to journey to Teheran, the capital city. I can assure you it was not without conflicting emotions that we bade farewell to our family and friends, although keenly appreciative of the opportunity to visit this unknown land. At New York we took our second look at the World's Fair, which is a picture of the World of Tomorrow; we found it vastly different from the world we are seeing today. The S. S. Deutschland gave us a very pleasant crossing of the Atlantic. President Franklin S. Harris, Brigham Young University. Many interesting persons from all parts of the world were met, most of them being German-speaking. France was the first land seen; its green fields and red roofs were welcome after seven days of the deep blue of the ocean. The Deutschland did not go into the port at Cherbourg, but the passengers and luggage were taken aboard a tender. We also made a stop at Southampton where there was an exchange of passengers. The trip through the English Channel was delightful, with occasional glimpses of land on either side. The feeling of "aloneness'' disappeared as we saw the many ships of all types; especially pleasing were the small sailing boats with their sails full of wind. Some fog was encountered in the North Sea, but the morning we landed at Cuxhaven, Germany, at the mouth of the Elbe River, the sun shone in all its glory. After the usual customs formalities, we boarded a train for Hamburg and from there to Berlin. After completing our business with the Iran Legation and buying tickets from the S. S. S. R. Intourist office for Persia, we called at the mission headquarters where we met Apostle and Sister Joseph Fielding Smith and President and Sister A. C. Rees. We enjoyed a visit and luncheon with them and the missionaries who had come for a special meeting with Elder Smith. Sunday morning we were present at a large gathering of the Saints and felt their sincerity and devotion to the Cause. Three days in Berlin gave us an RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 671 opportunity to see the improvements which had been made since our last visit there several years ago. Some of these were: The stadium where the Olympics were held, the immense recreational field, the splendid new paved highway, and many new buildings. We left Berlin Tuesday morning, Dean Gerrit de Jong being at the station to see us off. I HAD not previously been east of Berlin, so it was with great interest that I watched this new territory. When we reached Poland, especially from Posen to Warsaw, we found a level country rich agriculturally. At Posen two Poles shared the same compartment with us and speaking German they were able to converse with my husband. One of them was born in the part that belonged to Germany before the war, so naturally he spoke German. They gave us a good idea of conditions and how the people felt. It was night when we reached Warsaw. We had several hours to wait for our train, so we walked around the main streets until we saw a sign, "Ice cream soda". The name had magic in it; we sat down at a table on the sidewalk watching the people go by as we slowly consumed our soda. As we passed several confectioners' windows, I noticed sunflower seeds side by side with candy and nuts. I learned they are quite a delicacy in Poland and Russia when roasted. They taste somewhat like our pine nuts. As you know, at the border of each country one has to go to the customs office and have all luggage opened and examined and money declared. At the last station in Poland I had the experience of being led by a woman attendant into another room and searched. This was a decidedly novel experience for me. We passed into Russia at Schepetowka. After the usual and rather rigorous customs examinations, we boarded the Russian train which was to be our home for three days and nights. It was made up of more than a dozen cars including one Wagons-Lits with four first-class and six second-class compartments. All the other cars were "hard," which means their seats were plain boards. Most of the seats could be made double deckers, which had the appearance of shelves, facing each other, with the same type along the aisle. These benches were crowded with peasants —men, women and children. They ate and slept on these hard boards; some had meager bedding or slept on a coat or other wearing apparel. All seemed fond of watermelon, the remains of which did not reduce the condition of general confusion. We had to pass through five such cars to reach the diner three times a day. In doing so we would frequently bump against a protruding bare foot or knock the sheet off some fat man who seemed to be sleeping practically naked. The odor in these cars did not increase our appetites. Russian diners are decidedly limited in menus and attractiveness. We had sliced tomatoes and cucumbers, both unpeeled, for every meal. A dressing composed mainly of vinegar was put over them. At breakfast we were served the ones left from the night before. There was an abundance of bread and potatoes with some kind of meat once a day and eggs twice a day. The 672 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE dessert was stewed prunes or apples. The Russians are fond of "chi," their weak tea, which they drink very hot and often. It was interesting to watch the people hurry off the train as it stopped at the station to get some hot water for "chi". At most of the stops there were small houses with tanks of boiling water, which was available to the passengers. From what we could see of Russia, its people seemed very serious and almost stolid. Laughter was rare. Only once did I hear a group of girls laugh outright. They seemed to be amused at my hat, which doubtless was a bit queer to them. Few wear hats; most women wear a kerchief around their heads or go bareheaded. I could not help being sad at seeing the lack of good clothes in Russia. Everyone seemed to wear any old thing, and one had the feeling that a number of attics had been raided for old clothes of a previous generation. The absence of fine silk hose for women was especially noticeable. My chiffon hose were under constant scrutiny. Even the porter who cared for our compartment pointed to my stockings and then to himself saying, "Madam". I presumed he wanted my hose for his wife. As we went through the country, we saw women doing all sorts of work. Some were repairing the track, others moving heavy rocks or doing the farm work. Women work in offices and as street car conductors. It is said Stalin selects a woman engineer when he travels. I saw one woman carrying a baby straddled across her back and hips, holding it with her hands and supporting a heavy load on her head. Another woman was carrying a baby in her arms and balancing a loaded basket on her head. This took fine coordination of muscles. Our last place in Russia was Baku, an important oil city on the Caspian Sea. Oil from here is piped to Batum on the Black Sea from which place it is sent all over the world. The city itself is old and has a decidedly mixed population. It is built on hillsides over the bay. There remains some of the old wall which once surrounded the city and many of the old huts. Our guide passed lightly over these to tell us of the unprecedented growth of schools, public buildings. And parks of culture and recreation that have been built by the Soviet regime. We left Baku by boat about nine o'clock in the evening after again passing the customs formalities. As we passed out of the harbor, the lights of the city were even more impressive than the buildings had been by day. As these became dim, our attention was turned to a full moon rising out of a calm sea. It was closely accompanied by Jupiter, while red Mars dominated the southern sky. Here we were leaving a European shore to land the next day at a port in Asia. It seemed appropriate, therefore, that the sky should have a sort of Oriental touch. The combination of sea and sky and the strange mixture of Slav, Tartar and Aryan passenger groups so enthralled us as we sat on deck during the warm evening that we were not sorry the serving of the evening meal was delayed till past eleven o'clock. Early the next afternoon we arrived at Pahlevi, Iran. At last we were in Persia, the land which had ; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 673 been reaching out to us for three weeks. It seemed so very strange, and we had difficulty in thinking of it as a home even for the limited time we planned to remain. From the first, however, it was hospitable. Several hours were required to attend to port regulations. We then had to get luncheon and hire an automobile to take us to Teheran. We drove through a delightful tropical country for several hours, stopping for the night at Ramsar. The beautiful new hotel here was built by the Shah. Our first introduction to Persian rugs had a splendid setting on these immense floors and halls. This hotel is spectacularly located on a hillside overlooking the Caspian Sea. Many wide steps lead up from the road and lovely formal gardens cover the terraced slopes. The flowers were familiar ones—petunias, golden glow, geraniums, salvia, canna and roses—nearly all the flowers we have at home. This first night in Iran was spent in a type of splendor that combined the age-old art of Persia with the modern conveniences of an up-to-date hotel. The next morning our progress toward Teheran was delayed by the fact that a portion of the road was closed because the Shah was passing over it. We did not mind the wait, however, as it enabled us to have luncheon and stay at another of the Shah's modern hotels at Tschalouse. While the location of this hotel was not so imposing as that at Ramsar, it was, nevertheless, in a beautiful location at the foot of the moun- (Continued on page 728)
AUTUMN IN THE SOUTHWEST By Sadie Ollorton Clark
This is the time, the season of the year When earth yields bounty from her treasure horn; As far as eye can see, distant or near, Is ripe red fruit, brown leaves and yellow corn.
Gone are the dusty, shrieking winds that tore Frail branches from the bowed and naked trees. Gone is the driving heat that summer bore, The withering, arid heat the desert sees.
The field is mellow, as the setting sun Pours out his golden rays on grain and flower; Trees, spreading out their leafy arms, have won First right to lavish beauty in this hour.
All is so calm. Afar the ancient hills Have clothed themselves in dignity and peace. Their quiet falls upon my head and fills My soul with gratitude that will not cease.
A Rest For Rose Ellen By Mabel Harmer
ELIZABETH turned off the electric iron, took young Walter firmly by the hand, so that he would not tamper with it in her absence, and went to answer the front door. "Oh, it's you, come on in," she said to her sister Margaret waiting outside. "Don't tell me that you've finished your ironing already?" she asked, leading the way back to the kitchen. It was an entirely superfluous question for she knew that Margaret, being like herself a daughter of Rose Ellen Foster, would never leave home until the Tuesday ironing was laid neatly away in drawers or hung in closets. "I did part of it yesterday after I finished washing," Margaret explained, as she settled herself in a rocker and drew forth some darning from the large bag she carried. "Mac was coming into town today, and I wanted to come in and have a talk with you." "Anything special?" asked Elizabeth, bearing down on the collar of the blue shirt she was ironing. "Yes, in a way. I wanted to talk to you about Mother. Isn't there something we can do to keep her from giving those enormous Thanksgiving dinners? It's too much work for anybody, let alone a woman of her age." "Oh, Mother isn't so old," said Elizabeth, surveying her finished work with justifiable pride. "Most women are still active at sixty-eight." "Active, yes,' Margaret agreed, "and I wouldn't object to anything in reason. But when it comes to cooking a dinner for all six of her children and all twenty-two of her grandchildren, as well as whatever spare uncles and aunts and cousins she can gather in, you know as well as I do that it's too much for her." "But isn't it fun?" asked Elizabeth, a look of happy reminiscence coming into her eyes. I am so glad that she didn't give the big house up after Father died. I just dote on going back there and sitting down to the long table filled with Mother's jellies and pickles. And when those turkeys are brought in— I guess there isn't a woman in the whole country that can roast a turkey like Mother can." "Of course there isn't," Margaret agreed, "but that still isn't a logical reason why she should wear herself out every Thanksgiving Day feeding a crowd like ours." "It is an awful lot of work," said Elizabeth, "but anyway, just how do you think you could talk her out of it? You know how Mother adores making all those pumpkin pies and how triumphant she is when she has filled all of her progeny to the danger mark. The last two years we have suggested that we all have our dinners at our own homes, but she just wouldn't hear of it." "I've thought it all out," said Margaret, plying her needle industriously. "We'll have Genevieve invite her up to spend a week in the city. Mother can't resist her youngest daughter, and all the cooking that can be done in that little apartment will never raise anybody's blood RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 675 pressure. I'll write to Genevieve tonight, before Mother starts laying in supplies." Less than a week had elapsed before Rose Ellen called her two eldest daughters into conference. "I'm just awfully disturbed," she said, handing each a paring knife so that they could help peel apples for mincemeat. "I had a letter from Genevieve this morning, and she says that Frank can't get more than one day off, so they won't be down for Thanksgiving; she wants me to come up there and spend the whole week with her. I just don't know what to make of it." "Why, I think it would be rather nice," said Elizabeth cautiously. "It would be terribly lonesome for Genevieve to have to spend Thanksgiving up there away from all the family." "Of course it would," Rose Ellen agreed vigorously. "But what about my Thanksgiving dinner? I haven't missed cooking a big Thanksgiving dinner for all the folks one single year since I moved into this house over thirty years ago. Why, just the other day Oscar was saying, 'I just look forward from one year to the next to them dinners of yours, Rose Ellen.' " "I don't doubt it," Margaret said dryly. "And it wouldn't hurt him to rustle one for himself once, just to sort of get the feel of it." "Of course, we'd miss coming home like everything," Elizabeth added, "but I really think you owe it to Genevieve to go up there when she's without any of her own folks." "I guess maybe you're right," Rose Ellen admitted reluctantly, "but I do wish that one of you would invite Henry up to your house— Althea is such a poor hand to cook a big dinner." "Surely. I'll take care of Henry and Althea," said Margaret, glad to remove the last obstacle that stood in the way, "and I just hope that you go up there and have a good rest for a week." ROSE ELLEN left home on the Monday before Thanksgiving, doubtful to the very last as to whether or not she was justified in leaving her family to the fruits of their own cooking on such a momentous occasion. Genevieve met her at the station and took her home to her tiny apartment where Rose Ellen sat around for the remainder of the day getting a "good rest" and feeling terribly cramped and stuffy after the freedom of her big nine-room house. "I never thought to see the day," she remarked ruefully, "when they'd make a kitchen so small that only one person at a time could get inside.". On Tuesday, they left right after lunch to see a movie and do a little shopping. At least, "a little shopping" was what Genevieve had said they would do; but she found that even after living with her for twenty years, she didn't know her mother, or at any rate, didn't know her capacity for going through store after store and walking down street after street. "But you remember we're going to see a movie," Genevieve interposed, when her mother started to make a bee line for a large department store that they had not as yet covered. "Oh, that can wait," Rose Ellen 676 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE answered. "I can see movies any time at Poplar Grove, the very same ones you have here, but I don't often get a chance to go through a store that has a whole counter with nothing but lace collars on it. And now that I've started to take something home to each of the grandchildren, I'll have to finish the list out. So far I've only bought eight presents, or is it nine?" From the ache in her feet, Genevieve thought that it must have been ninety, but she acquiesced helplessly and followed her mother into the store. On the third floor, in the toy department, Genevieve had a flash of inspiration, born no doubt of her rebellious feet. "Why don't you buy the same things for each of the little boys, so that there won't be any hard feelings?" she said. "That's a good idea," Rose Ellen agreed. "Now, if I can just find something that will suit all of them from Paul down to Mac, Jr. There's seven of them between the ages of six and twelve, if we count Rupert who will be six by Christmas." Before long, Genevieve began to regret her inspired thought, for it seemed that Paul didn't care for books, Benny was the only one interested in a chemistry set, and it would be foolish to buy seven footballs. They made the rounds time and time again in hopes of finding something that would please all seven. They finally agreed on games for varied tastes and ages, and Genevieve discovered, with deep and sincere thankfulness, that it was time to go home and get Frank's dinner; therefore, shopping for the half dozen presents still unbought would have to be held over until another day. "It's too bad we had to miss the movie," said Rose Ellen, as they dropped into seats on the crowded bus, "but maybe we could go tonight." "Maybe," said Genevieve, trying to stretch her tired toes inside the narrow confines of her shoes, "but I think perhaps we had better wait until tomorrow. You came up here partly for a rest, you know." ON the following day, Genevieve settled her mother in an easy chair with a supply of magazines before she ventured forth to do her shopping for tomorrow's dinner. She had a slight twinge of conscience on leaving, because she knew that Rose Ellen would thoroughly enjoy the activities of the big market; but she dared not take a chance on a repetition of yesterday's shopping melee. "Who knows," she thought, "but what Mother might decide to buy up a lot of fancy fruits to take home in addition to the toys." After Genevieve left, Rose Ellen settled herself down contentedly enough, but had turned only the second page of her magazine when a ring of the doorbell brought her out of the easy chair in a flurry of expectancy. Interest always attended a chance caller. The one that stood before her when the door was opened was a young woman, evidently a resident of one of the apartments in the same building, since she wore no wrap. She showed unmistakable signs of agitation, and Rose Ellen was immediately all sympathy. "Come right in," she urged. "My RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 677 daughter has gone shopping, but she'll be back soon. Isn't there something I could do for you?" "I am Mrs. Parker from across the hall," the young woman said. "I can't come in—I've just left my baby, and he's ill. I thought that maybe Mrs. Bradford could help me give him a vapor bath. I'm so nervous, I can't seem to manage it alone." "Shucks, no. Genevieve wouldn't know anything about that, but I'll be glad to come. I've brought more babies through colds and pneumonia than you could put in this apartment. I guess I don't even have to take off my apron, do I?" she finished, stepping out into the hall prepared to follow the mother without further invitation. In the apartment across the hall Rose Ellen found a nine-months-old baby suffering with what appeared to be a very bad case of bronchitis. He was breathing with difficulty and his temperature was running high. "He seems terribly hot," said Mrs. Parker, with a catch in her voice, "and all this vapor stuff seems so complicated. He's never been sick before, and I feel so helpless." "Of course you do," soothed Rose Ellen. "Every mother does with her first one, but don't you worry a mite. I know just what to do for him, and that vapor stuff, as you call it, isn't anything more than an old-fashioned croup kettle. Have you got camphorated oil? Let's give his chest a good rub first and loosen him up so as he can breathe easier." Rose Ellen set to work with all the assurance of an expert and in a few minutes was rubbing the tiny chest with the warm oil. "I guess you've given him a laxative and plenty of water?" she asked, looking up at the baby's mother, who apparently had become completely helpless with the advent of more practised hands. Mrs. Parker nodded, and Rose Ellen went on. "You could be bringing out the electric plate to put the solution on, and a blanket to put over the bed." The younger woman hurried off, grateful to have something definite to do, and before long the child was in his cot, breathing the healing vapors of the steaming croup kettle. "The Doctor says to leave him twenty minutes at a time," Mrs. Parker ventured. "Won't that be terribly long? And I can't remember whether I was to put these drops in his nose before or after." "After will do just as well," Rose Ellen answered. "And it won't seem so long. We'll just sit here and talk. Or maybe you'd better fix yourself a bite of lunch. I'm just sure you haven't had any. I'll sit here by the crib and call you if he lets out the least peep." For the rest of the afternoon she worked over the baby, alternating the croup kettle with the medicine and nose drops. By five o'clock he was sleeping peacefully, and his fever was almost entirely gone. "That's the nice thing about babies," said Rose Ellen. "They raise a temperature quickly, but it's easy to bring it down, too. I guess I'd better go back now. My land! What will Genevieve think? I didn't leave a note or anything. I'll come back later to see if he's all right for 678 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the night, and, in the meantime, don't hesitate to call me if you need me." "I can't thank you enough," the girl began, with more than a suspicion of tears in her voice. "I'm up here alone without my mother, and being Thanksgiving time and all—" The tears long held back became a reality, and Rose Ellen's motherly arms went around the weeping girl. "There, there," she said, "just have a good cry. Sometimes it's the best thing in the world for you. And don't you worry about the little fellow. He's going to be perfectly all right." THE young Bradfords were not planning upon eating their Thanksgiving dinner before six, because Frank wanted to attend the football game, so Rose Ellen filled in the early part of the morning telephoning to a few friends from Poplar Grove now living in the city. "Letty Evans is helping to put on Thanksgiving dinner for the Blind," she said to Genevieve, after finishing her last conversation, "and she's going to call for me in a few minutes and let me look on for a while. I guess you won't mind if I go, will you?" Instinct made Genevieve somewhat dubious, but there was no real reason for insisting that her mother stay at home, so Rose Ellen changed her dress and was all ready to accompany Letty to the Civic Center when she arrived a half hour later. In the spacious dining room and kitchen of the Center they found a dozen women scurrying around at a variety of jobs. Rose Ellen's head went up like an old-time fire horse at the scent of smoke. Here was a job worth doing. Maybe they would let her tackle part of it. "Could you give me an apron?" she beseeched Letty. "I'd just love to help for a time." "Well, there's plenty to do setting on a dinner for one hundred and fifty," Letty admitted. "Here's an extra you can take. What would you like to do? How about making pumpkin pies? I never have forgot those pies you used to make." "I'd love it. You'll need about twenty-five, won't you? I never made more than ten at one mixing before. It'll be a real treat." Rose Ellen assembled the materials for her mixing with a zest. For the first time now she felt recompensed about missing the pleasure of cooking a Thanksgiving dinner for her own family. At home there would have been only a mere thirty-five or forty at the most. And here she was in the midst of preparing a dinner for one hundred and fifty. She wished that she would have time to do the dressing, too. Everybody always said that no one could beat her turkey dressing. Maybe if she got through with the pies in time she could do it. Or, if not, there was the salads to make. They would be left until the last, anyway, and she was sure to get a chance to help with them. She glowed with pride when all of the women took time out to come and admire her pies as they were brought forth from the ovens, fluffy, golden and fragrant. "I'm sure glad you made a couple extra," said Letty. "I just couldn't have stood to be this close to your pies and not had a piece." With the pies all done and placed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 679 in opulent rows upon the tables waiting their final complement of whipped cream, Rose Ellen turned her attention to salad-making and finally to helping set the tables. Then, after the guests had arrived, there was turkey to be carved, plates to be filled and carried in and refilled until no one could be persuaded to eat any more. "I feel just terrible, keeping you all this time and letting you work like that," Letty apologized, as she and Rose Ellen finally climbed into the car to be driven home. "Whatever will your daughter say?" "I'll tell her that I've just spent one of the happiest days of my life, and she won't say a word," said Rose Ellen cheerfully, "if I don't go any further, of course." SHE left for home on Friday because it looked as if it might be sort of quiet in the city after the holiday, and, anyway, a whole week was much too long a time to stay away from home. She didn't bother to let the girls know that she was coming, because there was bound to be somebody at the station that would give her a lift. Sure enough, there was Millicent and Sam Hennefer, come down to see their daughter off for home after the holiday, and, of course, they were delighted to take Rose Ellen home, especially since it wasn't more than a mile or two out of their way. "And how did you like the city?" asked Millicent, as they settled themselves in the rear seat and Sam started the ancient car with a jerk. "It's just grand," Rose Ellen answered with a happy sigh. "There's so much to do."
OCTOBER By Lydia Hall
Earth dreamed a dream of loveliness Upon an April day, When lilacs exhaled ecstasy And hills were blossom gay.
Then, when October meadows burned And autumn skies were blue Beyond belief, she found her dreams Had ev'ry one come true.
Just A Bundle Of Nerves By Alice Morrey Bailey
"WORRY:" (according to Webster) "To tease; to trouble; to fatigue; to harass with importunity or with care and anxiety." In the complete definition he used the word "harass" four times. People say it differently: "I live on my nerve," a pet delusion. "I'm so worried, I'm nearly crazy," usually an exaggeration. "All I am is a bundle of nerves," an inaccuracy. "I have the jitters," which is the modern version. Streets, homes and businesses are full of people who are worried. The farmer is caught between the mortgage and the watershed; the businessman between the slump and the overhead; Mother and Dad can't choose between lack of funds and the immorals that menace growing children. Marital problems, problems of health and old age, money, social obligations, all are causes of worry. All of these may be legitimate causes, but people who have none of these worry about other things: The hats women wear, the way girls dress, new styles in love-making, crime in a remote city, war on another continent, or the weather. The Government budget in 1960 or the trials our forefathers had to bear are worried over by some—not because they are really interested in any of these things, but because they have an appetite for worry, and it must be appeased. Now, such a worry diet would be fine if it took the place of vitamins or exercise: if it could be substituted for a shampoo, finger-wave and facial; if it healed the sick, made the rain to fall, or swelled the bank account. But it does none of these things. It saps your pep, puts lines in your face, makes you ill and robs you of actual money. All sorts of calamities can be traced directly to its devastating action. Not the least of these is that it often attracts the very things which it fears most. For example, in war time a person may be worried over the fact that sugar may increase in cost. Worry is catching. Soon mass worry causes a rush on the market and sends the price to abnormal heights, heights not warranted by the laws of supply and demand. Worry crowds out efficiency, dominates the emotions, and hampers physiological activity. Years ago, I heard a doctor make the statement that worry, fear and anger pour a definite poison into the system. More recent study throws new light upon this statement. No definite poison has been isolated, but the human body is more and more appreciated as an extremely delicately-balanced mechanism. Nature measures for it exact proportions of certain elements: Electricity, positive and negative currents; gland secretions, etc. Nature counts the blood cells, red and white; it measures the liquids, the chemicals, takes the temperature. The yes and no are inflexible in the human body. Whenever this perfect balance is upset, there is trouble. Worry hits directly at the nervous system and upsets this perfect balance, because the nervous system controls all the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 681 bodily functions. Its intricate telephone system is connected with every minute part. Under normal operation everything goes smoothly —circulation, breathing, gland secretions, elimination, digestion, all the workings, large and small. But a worried person is like a factory. With a prankster at the controls —some operations are slowed down,. Some are speeded up; the nerves not only say when to stop but when to go. "I HAVE a terrific headache," "I can't sleep," "I can't eat," "I'm so upset," "I'm just a bundle of nerves," people say. They have nausea, and the doctor calls it a nervous stomach; they become mentally ill, and we speak of them as having a "nervous break-down"; they die, and we say, "She died of shock." Fear, worry, anger, strife, and destruction are the five generations. Fear is the father of worry who is the father of anger, whose son is strife. The first-born of strife is destruction. It is a chain that breaks civilization, nations, institutions, families and friendships. And of the chain, worry is the weak link. To worry is human. It is one of the things that distinguishes us from beasts and trees. But reason and self-control also distinguish us. As the nervous system controls the body, so reason and self-control can protect the nervous system. How shall we apply them to worry? "I bought a fur coat," one woman told me. "Then I laid awake nights and worried because it cost so much. Finally, I could hardly bear to wear the coat. Then I decided I was spoiling it with worry, and I took myself in hand. I argued to myself that I had no children who were being robbed of pleasure which that money could buy; my husband was pleased that I had the coat; the money I paid for it was prospering other people, furriers, artisans, trappers; I could well afford to buy it. I stopped worrying and enjoyed the beauty and warmth of my fur coat." This intelligent woman applied reason to worry. "I couldn't sleep one night because I had neglected so long visiting a woman who had lost her husband, so I made it a point to visit her the very next day. The result was a feeling of satisfaction and a good night's sleep." Thus, the good old gospel of removing the cause to correct the disease was applied. There are many recipes: "If you are worried about a decision, sleep on it." "If you are harried and jumpy, lean back and let your mind go blank for half an hour." These work for some. You may have your own recipe. "If you must worry," says Vash Young in his book, "do it only on Thursday." "I’ll not think of it today. I’ll think about it tomorrow," Scarlett O'Hara of Gone With The Wind promises herself. "Try substitution," the psychologists say. In Dark Victory, Bette Davis portrays a girl who cannot conquer death, so she transfers her fight to conquering fear, and succeeds. By so doing, she is relieved of strain and puts a lifetime of happiness into the short space allotted her. Is your grief for the one who has gone in death, or for yourself who is left behind? Answer to yourself 682 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the question, and then, if you still weep, work is the antidote say the psychologists. Work until you must sleep; rest and time will ease the burden. Many worries can be prevented. "I never make a promise I can't keep," an excellent guaranty for serenity. If you can't stand disappointment, don't allow yourself to anticipate too much. Give yourself whole-heartedly to every job, and there will be no regrets that you didn't do it better. "T can't stand remorse and' worry about not doing right," says one man, "so I live my religion." If you have worry or sorrow, skirt it, shun it, go out to meet and conquer it, argue yourself out of it, relax and forget it, prevent it, substitute work and other interests for it. Do anything—but don't worry. "OUR LITTLE PRAYERS Our little prayers, dear God, remember, pray, A woman cries them out so, night and day. Let Baby sleep awhile—he needs his rest. Please help our Danny Joe to do his best. Don't let old Mrs. Peele have too much pain, And bring the thirsty grass 'Thy tender rain. I thank Thee, Lord—I count my blessings o'er— Keep me from blaming John, when feet are sore, And take the fever from the child next door. Help me to hold Thy peace and keep the morning song All the way long— And hold Thou safely all I love today. Our little prayers, dear God, remember, pray. —Kathleen B. Nelson. Good Taste In Home Decoration By I. A. Fisher THERE are many reasons why I modern design is far superior to traditional or period design. Of these, probably the most important are: A greater variety of materials to choose from, tremendously better tools to work with, and— most important of all—a greater degree of understanding of the principles of art and design. In traditional design, appearance was the end. All Duncan Phyfe, Sheraton, Chippendale, or Colonial furniture had identical characteristics. If ladder-back chairs were the fad, every home had them, no matter how inappropriate they were in the different decoration schemes. In modern design, appearance is a result—not an end. Its evaluation is a problem to most people because the approach is entirely different. To understand period design, a study of classic principles is necessary; to understand and appreciate modern design, all that is needed is plain common sense. There are three easy ways to judge modern design. The first is by its form. Considered from the standpoint of use, form must be practical, comfortable, and efficient. Its lines, bulk, and proportions must be adequate for its particular function. The second way is by its material. Does it serve its utility? Do its surface, weight, and strength meet the demands that will be made of it? The third is by its construction. Is it balanced, durable, and secure? Is it economically efficient? Is its fabrication sound as to form and materials? Since the sole purpose of its creation isusefulness, and since form, material, and construction constitute the framework of usefulness, the test of everything you buy should be on these three points. Ask of every piece: Does it do, perfectly, what it is supposed to do? Is there anything about it that does not contribute to its usefulness? A chair, for instance, must fit the human figure. It must be strong, light and have a minimum of bulk. There are many materials from which such a form can be made; but as their flexibilities, weights, and textures vary, the perfect choice depends on the particular function the chair is to fill... Such as writing, dining, or lounging. If the materials are expertly put together in a strong, simple way, if the chair is comfortable, light, and steady, if the materials fill the requirements of strength and durability, then, it is a chair of perfect modern design. Its place in your home should ther be determined by the ability of its form, texture, and color to harmonize with its surroundings. Any piece of modern design will possess beauty to the degree that form, material, and construction serve usefulness. A composite of elements reach perfection of beauty, and this is possible only when design and function blend so perfectly that there is no dividing line. To be able to apply this reasoning to each part and object of your home would be to achieve lasting beauty. The function of ccilings is to close what would otherwise be an ugly opening. Walls are to support roofs and keep out the elements. Windows are to let in sunlight, 684 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Floors are to hold furniture and to walk on. Yet in most cases ceilings are too obtrusive, walls too oppressive, windows too small and heavily draped, and floors dark, gloomy, and too broken up. Most living rooms— particularly in older homes—are either too dark, crowded and cluttered, or too dismal, bare and uninteresting. Either type, if complete modernization is out of the question, could be made morte livable by a little effort and imagination. It is impossible to think that the average person is sufficiently well trained to judge thoroughly the materials, construction, and functions of all designs. Nor could the average person possess infallible taste in colors and textures. Some people can, however; those who cannot, have access to sufficient professional help in the well-equipped Home Furnishing centers. OR those who, through necessity or desire, wish to build or modernize their own homes and do all the work themselves, the following easy-to-follow suggestions are offered: Almost all kitchens and bathrooms are functional—partly because their purpose is thoroughly understood, and partly because very few furnishings are involved. The ones which are not functional can be traced to antiquated equipment, bad color, or poor lighting. As the problems of color and lighting will be discussed later, we will concern ourselves at present with the living and dining rooms only. These rooms should fit your own mode of living and eating, and these individual problems can be solved in the main by no one but you. Less drastic changes are possible in remodeling than in building, so the suggestions have been made sufficiently general and flexible to allow for both. It is hoped that the reader realizes there are exceptions to every tule. The better informed a person is, the greater are the possibilities to achieve good taste through any one of a million variations. These rules, if studied and followed, will result in the expression of good taste and individuality in your home. Floors Keep floors plain, simple, and unbroken. Small rugs catch the feet and eyes, breaking up floor areas into uninteresting and unbalanced spaces. If re-carpeting, do so from wall to wall. This is very important. Do not buy rugs or carpets smaller than the floor space if you want simplicity and beauty. Be sure your rugs and carpets have underpads for economy, and that they are a trifle smaller than the area covered. If dining rooms, living rooms, halls, or stairways open up into each other, completely cover all floor surfaces the same. If you are building your home, have the floors made of cement or inexpensive wood, and then carpet them completely. Hardwood floors are hard to keep up, not harmonious with médst rugs and too expensive. Not being functional, they are not beautiful. If vou are already using rugs and plan to leave them, paint the surrounding space to match the rugs or harmonize as closely as possible. Dark rugs show lint and footprints and have a gloomy and. Depressing effect. If you want a cheerful, sunny atmosphere in your home, avoid them. However, dark Tugs are at RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 685 times very desirable and effective for use in certain rooms, according to general impression created and color schemes used. Usually plain gray, beige, or natural shades are best. Self-patterned, self-textured, high pile, shaggy, hand-carved, or handtufted rugs always look best in any room. Avoid contrasting patterns of any type. The more neutral your floor coverings, the greater are your possibilities for different color schemes in your decorations. Walls Walls, to be functional, should be as neutral as possible. Remove all baseboards; they spoil the beauty of a room, catch dirt, and harbor insects. Remove all mouldings from walls. Avoid patterned wallpapers for they press in on you, and the corners give one the impression of being inside a box. If patterned paper is used, contrast one wall with a heavy, draped curtain, paint, or plain paper. This eliminates the box effect and gives the impression that the walls continue on indefinitely. Eliminate all door and window frames. If this is not possible, cut them down to narrow, plain frames. Cover all panelled doors with plylox or other veneered woods and paint. Paint all woodwork to match walls, or in very close harmony with them. If in doubt, remember that off-white is always right. Most woods are not only dull and unattractive but need continual refinishing at tremendous cost, over the years. The new modern, bleached woods are beautiful and attractive and recommended wherever wood is to be used. Otherwise, complete elimination of wood for walls and frames within the home is desirable. Windows Windows should be as large as possible. If building, the problem is simple, for with the use ot structural steel, windows can be as large as one whole wall. If remodeling, enlarge windows as much as possible in relation to outside and inside arcas. Treat double and triple windows as one where possible. Hand blinds are scarcely ever completely up; thicy keep out light and add ugly lines to a room. Replace them with Vencetian blinds. 'There are several prices, but if the cost is prohibitive, bamboo roll screens with draw draperies are smart and practical. If Venetian blinds are used, they should be the same color as the window frames, or if there are no window frames, then they should match the walls. Draperies are optional but not necessary. Draperies Draperies look best when they match or harmonize closely with wall or woodwork. Plain, dull fabrics are best. Small patterns, figures, or fine horizontal stripes are next best; if these patterns are in contrasting colors, the color should be carried out elsewhere in the room. For example, with bone-white woodwork, white and canary yellow wallpaper, and white ceiling, use canary yellow draperies with small rust horizontal line, one rust chair, gray rug, etc. Avoid crisscross draping of windows or gaudy patterns. Simplicity is always best. Pictures should be few and well spaced, with never more than two or three at the most to a room, unless they are placed by an expert. Discard cheap pictures of the Lone Wolf type; confine 686 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE family portraits to bedrooms or cedar chests and replace with prints of masterpieces. 'They can be purchased for as little as seventy-five cents and: up to three dollars, and are the next best things to original paintings. Frames should match the wall or woodwork as nearly as possible.. Ceilings Ceilings should be as unobtrusive as possible—either white or in faint pastel shades. Never bring ceiling paper down on the walls to make the ceiling look lower. This not only spoils the beauty of the walls, but attracts too much attention to the ceiling. Avoid wallpaper borders. Paper the walls flush to the ceiling and leave plain. Remove all paneling or other ceiling decorations and see that lighting. Fixtures are not too low, too high, or inefficient. If all these parts of your home are functional, doing what they are supposed to do perfectly, then it is a place of charm, graciousness and enduring beauty. A MY MEMORY By LaVina Dodge Moeller There's a memory deep in the heart of me, Beautiful, silent and tender, Making me humble and grateful to Him— The Master of Life, her sender. Here it lies deep in my heart all the while, Keeping me happy and cheerful, Keeping me in the straight, narrow way; Sometimes inclined to be tearful. Wonderful memory, pure as the dew, Clear as the sunlight I see her; Guiding me constantly, keeping me true; Never to lie or deceive her. Never to go against what she has taught; God never gives us another— So deep in my heart and sacred I keep My wonderful mem'ry of Mother! The Relief Society and the Welfare Plan By Roscoe W. Eardley, Church Storehouse Supervisor SHE is one of the modest mothers of Israel. She sacrifices patiently for husband and children. Her home is humble but well kept. Yet, in some almost miraculous way, she is able to help her neighbors. When they are sick, she visits them. When they sorrow, she comforts them. When they hunger, she sees that food is provided, and when they are cold fuel is sent. When discouragement and despair depress them, her cheerful spirit fills them with faith and hope to try again—to carry on. Humble and plain in her bearing, she graces her calling with the spirit of a true aristocrat—an aristocrat of service. Her name? Shall we call her Legion? For she typifies the hundreds of women, officers and members of the Relief Society, who Have served their people, their Church and _ their Maker for almost a century. Elder Brigham H. Roberts has written beautifully about this "Aristocracy of Service" in the Church. Changing his words slightly to meet the ideas of today, he expresses the following inspiring thoughts: Men and women blessed with divine insight and power are giving their services practically without remuneration for the welfare of their people. They are laboring in season and out of season foi them. They are giving not only a teaching service, tending to make the truth clear and the inspiration which has come to our present leaders easily understood, but they are giving freely of their business, professional, executive and judicial abilities and craftsmanship. Men and women of the. Highest intelligence and _ spiritual qualities are devoting their lives to their people, practically without earthly reward, and are rich only in the consciousness that their services to their fellowmen are being well performed. As you read these words, you will think instantly of men and women in your own communities, as well as of men and women in presiding positions in the Church, who are numbered today among the Aristocracy of Service. You, too, may become such an aristocrat. The great Church Welfare Plan, as well as other opportunities for unselfish service in the Church, makes this possible. What is the Welfare Plan? Briefly stated, it is a union of all the forces of the Priesthood and the women of the Church to assist our people to help themselves to solve their economic and spiritual problems. In this inspired undertaking the Relief Society represents, largely, the women in the Plan. One of the pressing problems is to care for the temporal needs of the unemployed and needy. To teach this objective four things seem essential. 'They are: 1. To produce the food, clothing and other necessities that are required. 2. To distribute these necessities to all who are in need. 3. To provide work in regular industry or by work projects, so that all who are physically able may labor for what they receive, thus relieving them of the "curse of idleness and the evils of the dole". 4. To meet the social problems that have grown out of the depression and its attendant evils. What is the Relief Society Doing? To solve any problem it is necessary to ascertain the facts and then face them bravely. To know what has to be done gives one power to begin to do it. It is the work of the Ward Welfare Committee, which is composed of the Bishop or his representative, The Ward Relief Society President, The Ward Work Director, The Relief Society Work Director and representatives of the High Priests, Seventies, Elders and Adult Aaronic Priesthood to ascertain what economic and other problems confront our people. To assist the Ward Welfare Committees to gather the facts easily and accurately, the Presiding Bishopric, the General Church Welfare Committee and the General Board of Relief Society have cooperated to prepare a survey card, which is usually spoken of as "the green card." This card properly filled out is one of the principal tools in the hands of the Ward Committee. Without this tool the Committee is almost as helpless as a mason would be without a trowel or a carpenter without a hammer and saw. The gathering of the information is the responsibility of the entire committee, but experience has proven that many of the most successful surveys have been made by experienced Relief Society workers who have tactfully and gently secured the facts required. Special surveys were recently required in a number of stakes, and it was remarkable how thoroughly and quickly our sisters secured them. In one ward where the "green cards" had been kept up to date the information was available in two hours. How the Relief Society Functions in Supplying Food and Clothing for Bishops' Storehouses. The food, clothing, and other commodities supplied by the Bishops' Storehouses are largely the fruits of the labor of our people and of individual donations to the Welfare Plan. The projects to produce the raw materials needed are carried on principally, but not entirely, by Priesthood Quorums and _ other groups of men; the preparing and preservation of the food, the canning and the drying is done mainly by the women under the direction of the Relief Society. The work has been organized so that the following four classes of workers are recognized: 1. Those who are the direct recipients of the Program—those whose needs have been and will be provided for and who are physically able to work. 2. Women from the "borderline" cases—those whose incomes are scarcely adequate to meet their needs and who, through work projects, are given the opportunity to increase their incomes. 3. Volunteer workers who desire to donate their time. 4. Relief Society members and their friends who respond to the call when an emergency arises. 688 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 689 As for clothing and bedding, it is provided almost entirely by our women under the direction of the Relief Society. In wards and stakes this important phase of the work is being carried on and in the larger communities sewing centers have been organized. The Relief Society is a most vital force in the production program of the Welfare Plan. The Relief Society's Important Duty in Distribution. What does the individual family need in food, clothing, fuel? The president of the ward Relief Society, or her representative, ascertains the facts by visiting the home and talking with the mother in the home. Having learned the family's needs, she presents the list to the bishop for his approval or suggestions, and it is then sent to the Bishops' Storehouse. The Storehouse promptly fills the order. The enlarged facilities of the Welfare Plan—the green survey cards, the information supplied by other members of the committee, the canning and sewing centers, the Budget-assigned projects and the Bishops' Storehouses—place facilities at the disposal of the Relief Society organizations which enable them to meet promptly the new and larger demands of presentday economic and social conditions. That the present-day challenge is being successfully met is attested by the thousands to whom help has been given during the past three years. 'The necessities of life have been provided and distributed. Work has been found for hundreds of our women and girls. Many of the social problems growing out of the depression have been solved and a system of record keeping has been set up to assure down-to-the-minute information and prompt assistance in cases of need. It is not thinkable, but suppose the Relief Society should stop, what would happen to the Welfare Plan? SUMMER IDYLL I’ll give you half my heart, For if I give it all Pll have no heart to say that this must end— This summer's romance, destined ere begun To die with winter's snow. I’ll give you half my heart Then say goodby, and smile at summer's romance— Dead, like fallen leaves. And only half my heart will bear a scar With winter's snow. —Beatrice Rordame Parsons HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon OCTOBER—Such sweet contentment does October bring With garnered fruits and golden grain— - Rich promise for grim winter's reign. THE renewal of the work of the women's clubs and organizations and the fall opening of the schools has started a rush for books from the libraries and book shops. Numerous new books on a variety of subjects as well as the old favorites are ready for the eager reader. MAY ROBSON, grand old lady of the films, has purchased lots in Culver City, near Hollywood, on which she has built fourteen houses of five rooms each and rented them to "only large growing families" at a nominal rental. A film studio adjoining the lots has tried vainly to buy them. ARLENE DAVIS, the only woman in the United States holding a license to fly transport planes over land and sea, with another redhaired aviatrix, Jacqueline Cochran, famed operator of cosmetic salons, entered the transcontinental speed dash of the national air races last month. ALICE MARBLE, queen of the world's tennis courts, won the Essex Bowl championship for the third time. Helen Wills Moody is the only other tennis star to retire an Essex Bowl in fifteen years of history. Incidentally, Miss Marble has ambitions to become a famous singer and has been taking lessons from John MacCormack. IVY J. ENSIGN of Utah, director of the Lund Chaminade Ladies Chorus, is very proud that her chorus won first place at the Golden Gate International Exposition Eisteddfod. The prize was $250. MABEL SWARTZ WITHOFT of Georgia, past national president of Service Star Legion, died last month. She was a poetess and the author of a number of books. Her poem Seeded Ground was published in numerous leading magazines. ANNE VINCENT of Tremonton, Utah, 99 last month, was said to have been the "liveliest member of the party" at a recent celebration. NAOMI LANE BABSON. Has written a Chinese family story called All The Tomorrows, and Vicki Baum, Shanghai 37, both good books claiming some of the laurels from Pearl Buck. GRACE M. CANDLAND of Provo has issued a choice booklet for the Christmas time containing three pioneer poems, Glorinda, Onward, and A Deserted Village. CLARISSA YOUNG SPENCER, daughter of Brigham Young, a talented, versatile and beautiful woman dearly beloved for her fine qualities of friendship died last summer. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN - KATE M. BARKER - JULIA A. F. LUND - Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion THE GENERAL BOARD President First Counselor - - - Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Beatrice F. Stevens Belle S. Spafford Rae B. Barker Donna Durrant Sorensen Nellie O. Parker Vivian R. McConkie Anna S. Barlow Leda T. Jensen
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - Manager - - - Assistant Manager - - - Belle S. Spafford Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XXVI OCTOBER, 1939 No. 10
EDITORIAL
Judging Values
THE great difficulty with humankind is that it knows so poorly how to pursue its own best interests. People generally are genuinely anxious to better their own conditions, but all to often strive to do so through satisfying their immediate selfish desires. This isn't a thing for which we should be too severely criticised, for after all, we are still but children; the fine qualities of God-like judgment are in us as yet undeveloped. We use money as a standard of value. Yet, to one unschooled in the use of money as a standard of value, something of far less intrinsic worth, fulfilling a desire resulting from past experience, would be valued more highly. A small child allowed the choice between an ice cream cone and a ten dollar bill would not hesitate in choosing the ice cream cone. We who are more sophisticated, counting ourselves mature in our judgments, smile indulgently at such a choice. But we may well look to ourselves and see if we, like the child, are not seeking present gain rather than future good. Given a choice between such things as worldly pleasure, association which brings excitement, power, or material gain on the one hand and on the other the opportunity for service in the kingdom of God, which brings incitement to do good and results in development of spiritual strength enabling us to achieve eternal life, we too frequently show the immature judgment of a child and like him choose the thing of lesser value which satisfies our immediate selfish desire—we choose the ice cream cone. The Lord recognized this tendency in man when He said: "Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye are little children, and ye have not as yet understood how great blessings the Father hath in his own hands and prepared for you."
692 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Muddling Through"
WOULD you have stoned the prophets? A ridiculous question to ask, perhaps, because the Latter-day Saints believe in revelation and look back upon the holy men of God as prophets and instruments in the Lord's hands to guide His chosen people. Joseph Smith and those who have succeeded him in the Presidency of our Church are instruments in the Lord's hands to guide us, His chosen people, of the latter days. What do you think of their revelations? Do you pay your tithing? Do you keep the Word of Wisdom? Do you prepare your children for baptism? Do you keep the Sabbath day holy? Do you have family prayers? Do you love the Lord with all your heart, mind, might and strength? Do you love your neighbor as yourself? There are many members of record in our Church who are figuratively stoning the prophets, both old and new, with indifference and disobedience. Are you one of them? There are too many of our people just "muddling through". They have a passive love for the Church and the heritage the Pioneers have left for us but are a bit lax when it comes to paying tithing, living the Word of Wisdom, observing the Sabbath day, and generally are a bit indefinite about placing themselves on the Lord's side. There is no doubt in the minds and hearts of thousands of us but that we have had and do have prophets in these last days, and we know them and respect them for what they are. Referring to these last days the Lord revealed through Joseph Smith: "And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people;" and further, "I have sworn in my wrath and decreed wars upon the face of the earth and the wicked shall slay the wicked, and fear shall come upon every man. And the Saints also shall hardly escape." It is not only death we wish to escape; it is a death of wickedness which we all desire to avoid. Paul said near the close of his life: "For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith: Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not me alone but unto all them also that love his appearing." Paul had a full portion of the sustaining influence of the Gospel within him, and death held no horrors. If we wish to have peace in our hearts and minds in these troublesome times, we must honor the prophets and serve the Lord. If we want to be ready to die as Paul was ready, we must fight a good fight, finish the course, and keep the faith. "Muddling through" will bring nothing but disappointment, heartaches and regrets.
Membership Drive Attention Top-Notchers By Rae B. Barker
DECEMBER 15 of this year (1939) will find us midway in our four-year Membership Drive. Some stakes and wards are traveling in high gear. The rest must earnestly try to "step up" their efforts if half the desired increase is to be accomplished with the passing of half the time. Interesting accounts of the best things done in the interest of the Membership Drive by stakes and wards who have shown unusual initiative, originality and consistency is of great benefit to others. To stimulate interest and activity in membership, the General Board is offering not awards but RECOGNITION for superior achievement in the following directions: Relief Society grows because it offers practical opportunity for individual growth to its members. Ward units gather new strength through the ability and talent of new members. In membership increase it is, in some instances, necessary to overcome definite obstacles or handicaps, such as transportation, care of little children, conflicts with other social or study groups. Besides the steady, consistent week to week work of coordinators, committees and individual members, there is a place in every campaign for high-grade publicity or showmanship features.
THESE four things will be the basis of four articles to be published in the Relief Society Magazine in recognition of exceptional accomplishment. The articles will be submitted to the General Office through the stakes and will deal with the following:
1. Benefits derived by a new member in Relief Society. To be submitted by a new member. Title, "Treasures I Have Found."
2. Outstanding contribution by a new member to her organization. Not to be written by a new member. Select own title.
3. Most effective showmanship work by a ward group.
4. Handicaps solved by an organization.
Regulations:
1. Articles will be limited to 800 words.
2. Sifting of articles must be done in the stakes. Not more than one article to be sent from each stake on each subject.
3. Four articles will be selected from those submitted to the General Office and published either in the March or April issues of the Magazine.
4. All entries must be in the Editor's office by January 31, 1940.
5. Address entries to Membership Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
6. Articles will not be returned unless accompanied by postage.
Appropriate recognition at General Relief Society Conference will also be given coordinators attaining the highest percentage of membership increase.
The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHAPTER NINE
ROBERT LATHROP hurried into the Alaska house and started a fire in the rock fireplace before he took off his coat. These Northwest summers! Chill a man to the marrow! He had better have taken the nervous breakdown to the California deserts where he could bake to his heart's content, as his mother had advised. Then he wouldn't be in this affair—and he'd never have heard of Nell Carey, with her red hair, her tantalizing eyes. Rob laughed. He wondered what had been in his mind before he saw the girl, because she most certainly filled it—every corner of it—now. It must have been there, his love for Nell, since the first day he saw her coming through the corn, the sun in her bright hair, indignation flashing from her eyes like points of light on deep Sound water. The brave darling, shouldering the weight of the whole moldering place, Miss Brill's illness—and still finding the will to paint in spite of it all. Rob threw his coat upon one of the numerous chests that flanked the room, and in the so-doing tumbled a smaller one that rested upon it to the floor. Its patchwork cover slid off; it lay sideways, its lid open, its carved Chinese depth disgorging a musty assortment. Rob set the old chest upright and began to put the trinkets back—some little bone idols, bits of Indian beadwork, an old doll with elaborate pink silk skirts and staring black eyes, carefully wrapped in old linen. Women cherished old dolls. Just why, a man couldn't say, but they all kept them. And then he found it! Carefully wrapped in yellowed tissue paper tied with a bit of ribbon, its heart shape shining through the thin covering, was this bit of fate Miss Brill had muttered about in her illness— that which she had haltingly told Rob about. But she'd forgotten where she had hidden it. Of all the Chinese chests Rob had rummaged through, nobody had thought to disturb this little one, this baby chest of all Tom Carey's collection. Flinging the scrambled pile of things on the floor into the chest, Rob grabbed his coat and hat and ran out. A furious wind lashed the trees and shrubs back and forth in the darkened air. The deep boom of breakers pounding the beach kept time to the hoarse croak of foghorns out on the almost invisible Sound. Rob lowered his head and ran to the gray house. About to knock, he stopped short. Inside, he could hear Miss Brill laughing uproariously, out of all reason. He pushed the door open and rushed in. Miss Brill was in her wheel chair near the glowing kitchen fire, wiping the tears from her laughter-wet eyes and clutching a newspaper in her hands. She saw the open-mouthed Rob and thrust the paper at him. "It's Fred," she gasped, "and Twilly."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 695
Rob glanced at the county paper. On the back page was a news cut of a lanky young lady in breeches smiling up at the frowning, be-sweatered Fred. The couple was standing, significantly enough, outside the courthouse. "Young Poultry Growers to Wed," the caption read. "I never knew a girl could look so silly in breeches," Miss Brill chuckled. "I'm going to send that girl a wedding present." "But Nell loves the fellow," Rob cried indignantly. Miss Brill gave him a sidelong look. "Not at all. This may hurt her pride a bit, but not her heart. Fred was purely a matter of habit with her, and I don't believe in such marriages." But Rob wasn't so sure, in spite of the pounding of his heart. "Has Nell seen this?" "I don't know. Mary Kelly saw Nell down at the post office, and she had a paper. Nell ought to be here now. I can't understand why she isn't here. It's going to rain any minute, and there she is out in her good blue dress and no raincoat." "I'll drive down the road and pick her up," Rob offered, and at the door he remembered his errand. "I've found it," he called back, "but we'll talk about it when I get back." "Found what?" "Nell's heart." Rob had the door open against the buffeting wind. "Well," retorted Miss Brill cryptically, "it's about time." "Now what," the young man thought, "did she mean by that?"
LARGE drops of furious rain were already flattening in spatters on the highway. Rob drove slowly, scanning the landscape to the turn of the road, but no Nell was in sight. On past the wooded Oakwood estate he drove and by the grassy paddock where the Maddox horses huddled at the gate, wanting the shelter of the stable. Someone was hurrying along the distant beach path. It was Nell, shielding her head against the storm with a newspaper. Rob parked his car beside the road, grabbed the raincoat and ran through the paddock. The rain was lashing down in sheets now, and Rob stumbled over the stile into the beach path only to find it empty. Nell had vanished. He was exhausted by his run against the storm, and for a moment the emptiness of the landscape angered him all out of reason. He sagged against the stile and looked about. Just as he had decided to return to the car, he saw her. White against the slate gray of sky and water, and nestled in a tangle of blackberry thorn, was the Maddox beach pavilion pillared and open on all sides. Huddled on the floor of the small place was Nell, her face buried in a crumpled newspaper. "And that's how she feels about that bird Fred," Rob said bitterly. His fingers found the package in his pocket, and he smiled a tight smile without mirth. Rain had lashed into the open pavilion with saturating thoroughness, but the spot Nell had sought was dry. Rob went to it and stood there mopping water from his face with his handkerchief. "Something tells me this is all wrong," he said with forced lightness, "I was supposed to keep you from getting wet, and look at me." He indicated Nell's comparative
696 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
state of dryness and his own soaking condition. Nell was not diverted. She sobbed quietly into the papers and declined to be concerned. Rob shrugged. Just how did a man go about comforting the girl he loved for the defection of the other man? He found a bench, dragged it into the dry center spot and sat down. "See here," he said, "Fred's not the only man in the world, and eighteen's not too old to start looking for another one." "Nineteen," corrected Nell damply, lifting her head, "yesterday." "Why," cried Rob, "didn't someone tell me. I'm an expert at birthdays. Anyway, there's no use mourning. We'll go into town tonight and have dinner and a show. That'll show young Fred you aren't heartbroken." Nell got up and dusted herself off. "Just what are you talking about?" she inquired coldly. It was Rob's turn to be nettled. "You're crying, aren't you? And you've just read about Fred's wedding plans? Girls make me sick. Go out of your way to sympathize with them and what do you get?" "Find out first what to sympathize about," Nell retorted. She dabbed at her eyes with a soggy handkerchief. "Then you might get somewhere. Yes, I'm crying, and yes, I know Fred's going to marry Twilly; but there's no connection. I'm glad he is—so glad I could jump for joy. This," she choked, thrusting the paper at Rob, "is it." The art contest! Across the top of the page were the winning paintings. Nell's was not there. "Don't take it too hard," Rob urged reasonably. "After all, out of so many entries it would be sort of a miracle if a girl like you, almost without training, should win a prize." "But I did win," said Nell. "If you'd read about it you'd see. I didn't get first, or even second place, but I am third." Rob leaped up. "Why girl, that's marvelous! I take it all back. You've got more than talent. Third place against that mob, and you cry about it!" "Yes," Nell told him, "they've decided to send the third-place winner down to that art colony on the beach in California, and I won't leave Aunt Brill. Oh, if I could only take her along! As it is, I might just as well have lost out. I'd feel happier, really." Rob stared at her. "That settles it, Sally Delavan gets the works," he said firmly, "then you can take Miss Brill with you. I'll have no more pity on our fine lady." Nell looked at him warily. "Haven't you by any chance lost your mind?" she asked. "Just what has Miss Delavan to do with me?" "Plenty," Rob told her. He took the small package from his pocket and tore away the wrappings. It lay in his palm, the trinket, a heart entirely covered with small diamonds. "I know," cried Nell, "that's the shining heart." "You've seen it before? Then you know what's in it." "No," said Nell, "but Aunt Brill talked about it. I thought she was delirious." Swiftly Rob opened the large locket with his penknife and handed
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 697
it to Nell. "Those," he said, "are your parents."
SILENTLY Nell studied the two tinted miniatures. "He has red hair, too," was all she could say. The enormous fact of finding her parents had dazed her. "He was Frank Delavan, Sally's brother," Rob told her. "Your mother was French—a little nurse at the hospital where Frank was a shattered war invalid. But she's dead, too, of course. It was like this—" and with Nell's hand in his own, Rob told her the story. "And of course," he said, touching the jeweled locket, "this clinches my evidence. A dozen orphans may be running around with your baby shirts on, but you can bet my life they didn't have Frank's picture tangled up in them. I remember the fuss they made when this gadget showed up missing. It's worth money, you know, and Sally hunted for the thing for weeks; so she can't deny whose it is. And it's my guess that after you've worked your wily way with her she won't want to. I think even Sally of the hard heart will soon be eating out of your hand." Nell fingered the locket. "Everything changed by the shining heart," she said. "It's sort of a magic talisman." To Rob's amazement, she did not seem particularly happy over it. "By your shining heart," he muttered, almost to himself. "It means," whispered Nell, "that with all that money we'll go away where Aunt Brill can be in the sun and get better—where I can study. Rob," she cried suddenly, "what will you do?" He flushed, caught off his guard. "I—why, I've just been choking over a large piece of humble pie. Your earnest little soul will be delighted to know that I'm going back to Dad's office. He's going to let me design old ladies' kitchens and corner cupboards. Now aren't you satisfied?" "No!" she said, and abruptly she ran out of the pavilion. And suddenly it dawned upon the young man. He ran after her. "Nell! Wait a minute, darling." He called recklessly, "Nell, do you love me?" She didn't turn, but hurried on through the diminishing rain. "Of course I do. Everybody but you knows it. Even Fred had the sense to see how it was"—indignantly. And then he did catch her, breathlessly, into his wet tweed arms. "I've been such a mole, such a blind bat, darling; but I never dreamed—" "Rob, Rob, you'll make me lose the shining heart—" "No, sweet, never again—not that one, nor yours, nor mine." Nell murmured, "We're being selfish, Rob. Let's hurry and tell Aunt Brill about it—and us—" And they hurried up the path to the old house where lights already challenged the lowering night.
THE END
NOTES FROM THE FIELD By Julia A. F. Lund,
A GLANCE at the map of the world is sufficient to present a picture of the vast distances covered by Relief Society. The tie is a strong one, uniting women of many races widely scattered throughout different lands.
South African Mission
FROM Josephine H. Folland, Relief Society president of the South African Mission, comes a very interesting report. The sisters of this mission are, for the most part, expert in knitting and handwork, and, though many of them are at business during the day, they find time to make attractive articles for use in the bazaars. While the outlined lessons present some problems, they are using them to the best of their ability. Sister Folland writes: General Secretary "I cannot express fully how much I appreciate the wealth of material in the Relief Society Magazine. I had to travel a distance of 1300 miles and also to have a vital interest in Relief Society work to gain an appreciation of this wonderful organization and its splendid Magazine."
Brazilian Mission
THE accompanying picture was taken in Novo Hamburgo and shows the Relief Society members with their first quilt, all made by hand. They are justly proud of this quilt. There are six members of the Church and several friends in this Society, which was organized during the year 1938. Sister Bowers tells us that due to climatic conditions quilts are seldom used, and this, coupled with the high cost of materials, makes the project almost prohibitive. However, the sisters are anxious to cooperate in all that is suggested by the officers of the Organization. They are greatly interested in the work, and this naturally is a factor in increasing the membership. There are some very capable missionaries in Brazil. They cooperate with the Relief Society in the program which it is endeavoring to carry forward among a very deserving people. The lesson material is translated into German for the German-speaking sisters, and it is the plan to have the lessons translated into Portuguese as soon as possible. The Magazine is a great aid here in putting over the Relief Society message.
[Caption: Quilt Made by Novo Hamburgo Branch Relief Society Members, Brazilian Mission]
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 699
Norwegian Mission
FROM the pen of one of the Elders in this mission, we have a very delightful report of the work as it is progressing in Norway. The accompanying picture is of a party held during the past year with Mission President A. Richard Peterson in attendance. While the branches in this mission are small, the sisters are enthusiastic about Relief Society. In the branch at Salesund, Norway, there are fifteen members, with a fully organized presidency. Very fine meetings are held, which attract many friends as well as members. Brother Homer P. Johnson, the author of the letter, says, "We two Elders, Floyd A. Knight and I, enjoy the Relief Society meetings very much. I receive the Magazine from the Relief Society in my home ward and read each issue very thoroughly."
[Caption: Relief Society Social, Norwegian Mission]
700 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Argentine Mission
A LETTER from Corraine S. Williams, president of the Argentine Mission, presents a picture of the work of Relief Society in that mission. The lesson work as published in the Relief Society Magazine is quite generally used in the organizations in this country of the south. Through cooperation with the Mexican Mission, the lessons are translated into Spanish, which is the language in use in this part of the world. The lessons are very interesting to the sisters. Quoting directly from Sister Williams: "We thoroughly enjoy the Relief Society Magazine. Our Elders find that it is very helpful in many ways. We regret that our Saints are unable to enjoy it fully because they are unable to understand the language. However, we translate much of its contents for their use. The picture which accompanies this item is of the annual bazaar held March 17. Nine branch Relief Societies participated in this happy event. The motto seen above the display is 'La Caridad Nunca Falla' ('Charity Never Faileth'). Seen in the picture are Sister Williams, the president, Elder Oren E. Moffett, assistant mission supervisor, and a group of Relief Society branch officers. Due to its size, approximately half of the display is all that could be included in the picture. The total sales from the bazaar amounted to 434.20 Pesos Argentinos.
[Caption: Bazaar, Argentine Mission]
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 701
Palestine-Syrian Mission
FROM this very historic and interesting part of the world comes a delightful account of the Relief Society work. Sister Leone O. Jacobs, mission president, writes: "The work here is progressing. Of course, the limited number of members makes it impossible to carry on the activities as at home, but under the circumstances good work is being done. There has been an increase in attendance since the beginning of the year. The sisters are bright and eager to learn, and the lessons are enjoyed by all." Visiting teachers' work is carried on to a certain extent. Regular minutes and also complete records of other activities are now being carefully kept, so complete reports will now be available. As uniform a schedule of Relief Society meetings will be followed as climatic conditions will permit. The accompanying picture is of one of the Relief Society meetings here in Beirut. President Jacobs is present at the meetings whenever possible and translates and explains much of the work for the sisters.
[Caption: Beirut Branch Relief Society, Palestine-Syrian Mission]
OUR attention is called to another group of Relief Society organizations far removed from those we have considered.
Swedish Mission
SISTER VIRGINIA B. LARSON, president of the Relief Society of the Mission, writes: "It is a pleasure for us to report that the Relief Societies held outstanding sessions in connection with the recent district conferences. The Singing Mothers of the Mission were a delightful feature of the program. In connection with these meetings there were well organized handwork exhibitions, which showed the Swedish women's talent for creating colorful and artistic things. The sisters of the Mission greatly enjoy the Relief Society organization and wish to extend their greetings to the Presidency in Salt Lake City."
702 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Danish Mission
FROM Sister Gertrude R. Garff, we have a pleasant message from the Danish Mission. The sisters are interested in the lesson work and follow it through very much as it is printed in the Relief Society Magazine. Sister Garff says, "We use the lessons as they come from the office with a few minor changes." This is a well organized mission, and the sisters are enthusiastic about the Relief Society work.
Ella Jeremy Richards
THE passing of Sister Ella Jeremy Richards recalls the splendid service rendered by her as president of the Malad Stake Relief Society. Her accomplishments were many. Not only was she enthusiastic in carrying into effect the general program of the Society but rendered unusual service to the Lamanite sisters of the Washakie Ward. The General Board extend sympathy to the family of Sister Richards.
MY NEED
This is the courage I need today— Courage to walk the Christly way, To know His word is as true for me As it was for them at Galilee; To know that I, too, must give my all, That I must follow the higher call, Believing what I cannot see, Proving that truth can make me free. To love and live the Christly way Takes courage—and this I need today! —Claire S. Boyer.
MORMON HANDICRAFT Highlights By Nellie O. Parker
"In the elder days of art Builders wrought with greatest care Each minute and unseen part, For the gods see everywhere."
DISCRIMINATING people in our modern day are proud to own articles that are very carefully and skillfully made, even to the minutest detail. There is a constant pleasure derived from viewing fine workmanship and in using things that are exquisitely fashioned by expert, clever fingers. One of the nicest compliments to pay a friend is to present him with a beautiful hand-made gift from Mormon Handicraft. The blue and white beehive sticker is the label of fine, unexcelled craftsmanship. Such a gift is evidence of your appraisal of the friend's high appreciation of lovely, distinctive things.
Dainty Lamps
An unusual little alabaster lamp from the Shop—a lighthouse on a rocky coast—received marked attention and admiration in the gift room at a recent wedding reception. Besides this enchanting little lighthouse there is a beehive model which would glow very appropriately on a man's desk. There are other types of lamps available also.
Wool Mittens and Ski Sets
Prepare for the cold weather now by getting hand-knit mittens, scarfs and socks. There is a nice variety to choose from for street, sport, or party wear. These ski sets are very desirable in our mountainous country where skiing is a favorite sport. The dainty llama-down mittens for formal evening wear are "veritable poems" in their exquisite beauty of workmanship and color harmony. These and some of the sport models for both adults and children have attractive designs embroidered on them. Nothing could be nicer for birthday or Christmas gifts. Early shopping assures getting one's choice without delay or disappointment.
New Sweaters
Some new sweaters have come to the Shop. They are smart and up to the minute according to Vogue's dictum.
Party Favors
A number of pretty and original motives for party favors, nut cups and place cards are now available. Come and see them when planning your next luncheon.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT Uses of the Baton Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff
THE purpose of the baton is to increase the visible length of the right arm. It should be held easily with any grip that will permit the baton to continue in a straight line with the forearm. The first function of the baton is to indicate the rhythm by using a definite beat-pattern, which shows where the accent occurs as well as the speed of the beat. The downbeat, which is always the strongest beat, indicates the strongest measure-accent—the first beat of the measure. The established beat-patterns are as follows: Duple rhythm (2/8, 2/4, 2/2, cut-time, fast 6/8) down, up, with a hook or bounce at the bottom. Triple rhythm (3/8, 3/4, 3/2, fast 9/8) down, right, up, forming a triangle, with a bounce at the end of each beat. Quadruple rhythm (4/8, 4/4, 4/2, fast 12/8) down, left, right, up diagonally to the beginning of the down-beat, with bounces to make beats definite. Slow 9/8 is beaten as triple time, with each beat divided into three, thus: DOWN, down, down, RIGHT, right, right, UP, up, up. The first beat of each group is large, the others small. Slow 12/8 is beaten as quadruple time, with the beats each divided into three as in 9/8. The baton is also used to give the cue beat. This is a small beat given before the first note to prepare the singers to start together. It is smaller than an ordinary beat but takes the same direction as the beat before the singing begins and the same length of time as a beat in the tempo of the piece. A small down beat will start the singing on the second beat; a small second beat will start the piece on the third beat, and so on. At the end of a piece or section of the piece, the singers must all be stopped together. This is accomplished by the cut-off, a sharp downward motion of the baton. At the end of the piece the downward motion continues until the baton disappears from sight at the conductor's side; if the piece is not finished, the baton is moved downward, then raised quickly to be ready to go on. When used this way in the course of a composition, the cutoff is also the cue beat for the next note. The fermata or hold is indicated by a movement of the baton directly toward the singers, holding it parallel to the front of the body with the point elevated a little. It is followed by the cut-off or by the cut-off and cue-beat combined. This motion may also be used on the last note of the piece instead of beating time for the duration of the last note. In addition to these purely mechanical functions, the baton is used to indicate tempo and to change the loudness. The tempo is indicated by the speed of the beat and
(Continued on page 727)
LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Lesson 4
Saul the Pharisee and Persecutor
HELPFUL REFERENCES
F. W. Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul, chs. II, III, IV, VIII, IX. A. T. Robertson, Epochs in the Life of Paul, pp. 1-38. B. W. Robinson, The Life of Paul, (1918), pp. 25-42. J. Paterson Smyth, The Story of St. Paul's Life and Letters, pp. 1-27. F. A. Spencer, Beyond Damascus, chs. I-III, VII, IX, X.
PAUL'S FAMILY AND ANCESTRY.—Saul was a prince among men. He will be remembered as long as the earth lasts. For that reason it is fitting to inquire about his family and genealogy. He was a Jew who was only too glad to boast descent from Abraham (2 Cor. 11:22). In his letter to the Philippians (3:5) he emphasizes the fact that he was "of the race of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews". In his early zeal there can be little doubt that he was much concerned about family trees. His later reference to "endless genealogies" (1 Tim. 1:4) is probably an allusion to some practices not unknown in his own family. Pride of race and family was common among the Jews of his class. It is extremely unfortunate that we know so little about Saul's family. We do not even know the names of his father and mother. However, we are told that he was not only a Pharisee himself, but the son of a Pharisee (Acts 23:6). His father was, furthermore, a Roman citizen. This fact is an important one, for Saul was therefore a Roman by birth (Acts 22:28). The fact that he was a Roman aided him immensely in carrying the Gospel to various parts of the Roman Empire. Rome made the world respect her citizens. Saul was born in Tarsus, one of the great Greek cities in the Roman Empire. Sir W. A. Ramsay has definitely shown that it was possible for Jews to become Roman citizens in a city like Tarsus by being enrolled in "a Tribe set apart for them, in which they could control the religious rites and identify them with the service of the synagogue". It was not necessary, therefore, that such Roman Jews take part in idolatrous sacrifices to pagan gods and other hated ceremonies inimical to their religious interests. It is quite probable that Saul's father was an influential man in his community and an individual of considerable means. He probably financed his son's schooling in Jerusalem. Every Jewish boy learned a trade, and Saul was probably taught to be a tent-maker by his father. Even in his later life as an apostle, Saul made good use of his trade so that he should not be too dependent upon anyone for his living. In relation to Saul's mother, the late Dr. A. T. Robertson wrote: "The mother... Must have been a woman of force to have reared such
706 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
a son. We catch a faint glimpse of her also when Paul says: 'I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers' (2 Tim. 1:3). She is in that pious line. That is the noblest heritage of all. In the mention of Timothy's mother, Eunice, and grandmother, Lois (1:5), it is not difficult to catch the reflection of Saul's own fireside. When Paul reminds Timothy of whom he had learned the Holy Scriptures even from a babe (3:14f), he was echoing his own experience in the home in Tarsus. This Jewish matron must not be overlooked when we study the influences that moulded Saul. She made the home where he grew and whose stamp he always bore." We do not know how many sisters Saul had, but we do know he had one. When he was in dire straits in the city of Jerusalem as an apostle, and in danger of being killed, we are told that "Paul's sister's son, hearing of their (the enemy) lying in wait, he went and entered into the castle, and told Paul". (Acts 23: 16) As Professor Robertson reminds us, a later story calls Saul's sister, Rachel. If there were other sisters, and even brothers, history has left us no record.
SAUL AS STUDENT AND PHARISEE.—As a boy Saul was probably brought up in the strict fashion of the Pharisees. His father would be well schooled in the Law. Israel's great advantage over the rest of the world was thought to consist of her possession of the Scriptures and the rabbinical commentaries upon them. According to strict Pharisaical views it was necessary to know in detail the revelation of God as contained in Scripture. Therein lay salvation. It was thought just as bad to violate a minor religious statute as to commit a grave sin, because the whole Law was revealed by God. The Pharisees found it necessary to have a complete and careful explanation of every minor requirement of the Law in order to avoid sins of ignorance. Every single injunction of the 613 parts of the Mosaic code in addition to the oral prescriptions of the rabbis had to be observed. There were over 1500 listed things which a Pharisee might not do on the Sabbath day. The freedom of our day makes it hard for us to believe that the ancient Pharisees could be so strict. A splendid description of the life of a Pharisee is contained in the second chapter of Professor F. A. Spencer's recent book, Beyond Damascus. Notwithstanding the strict nature of Saul's early training, we cannot help but believe that the city of Tarsus with its Greek background left also a deep mark upon him. The Greeks had a marvelous culture. Their literature, art, architecture, games, philosophy and science have left a wonderful impress upon our Western civilization and cannot have failed to attract the intelligent and receptive young Saul. Note his comment in 1 Cor. 9:24-27: "Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize? So run, that ye may obtain. And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown; but we an incorruptible. I therefore so run, not as uncertainly; so fight I, not as one that beateth the air: But I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection.... RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 707 Between the ages of six and twelve Saul went to school (the House of the Book) and thoroughly learned all matters pertaining to the Scriptures normally required of a young Pharisee. He then learned a trade before entering the advanced rabbinical schools at the age of fifteen years. Ata later time he could say that he was "brought up" at Jerusalem (Acts 22:3). This would imply that he was in Jerusalem at an early age. Saul tells us that he was "taught at the feet of Gamaliel according to the perfect manner of the law of the fathers, and was zealous toward God". (Acts 22:3) Gamaliel was a famous teacher who followed the more liberal and lenient precepts of the school of Hillel rather than the stern orthodox tradition of Shammai. He allowed his students to study Greek literature in addition to the strictly Jewish subjects. Apparently he had a more tolerant attitude toward the Gentiles than most other teachers of his time. The incident mentioned in Acts 5:34-39 warms us in his favor. Saul undoubtedly owed much of his later breadth of view and generosity of spirit to this Jewish teacher. Judging from the events mentioned in the Acts, Saul learned his lessons well, for he was quickly recognized as a brilliant and zealous advocate of Pharisaic principles. Nevertheless, the strict discipline he underwent in the Jewish schools was later to prove of inestimable value in his presentation of Gospel principles to Hebrews and Greeks alike. SAUL, THE JEWISH RABBI AND PERSECUTOR. — The seventh chapter of Acts is remarkable for its dramatic power. Stephen, one of the famous characters in the early church, defends himself before the Jewish Sanhedrin for heresy and treason. His biting words cut the Jewish leaders to the quick, and without the formalities required by law they thrust him without the city and stoned him to death. The historian then introduces the subject of this sketch as follows: "And the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named saul." His (Luke's) psychology could scarcely be improved, for the young Pharisee is soon to be presented as one of the greatest forces in the Christian Church. The next chapter of Acts recounts other deeds of Saul. "And Saul was well pleased with his (Stephen's) death... But Saul made havoc of the church, entering into every house, and haling men and women committed them to prison." (Acts 8:1, 3) The very force with which the young Pharisee sought to blot out the heretical Christian movement perhaps portrays the sincerity by which he was actuated. In after years, Saul bitterly reproached himself for the attacks he made on the Church. "I persecuted this way unto the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women." (Acts 22:4) Again: "And when they were put to death I gave my voice against them." (Acts 26:10) At another time he writes: "For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God." (1 Cor. 15:9) All these are serious condemnations and reveal by their vigor and force his recognition of the great damage done by him as a persecuting Rabbi. (See also Gal. 1:13; 1 Tim. 1:13) 708 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit.) 1. How would you account for the fact that so little is known of Saul's family? 2. Have a member of the class report on the city of Tarsus as it existed in Saul's day. (See Spencer, Beyond Damascus, chs. I, III; Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul, chs. II, III.) 3. Assign someone to describe the beliefs and practices of the ancient Pharisees. (Spencer, Beyond Damascus, ch. II; Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul, ch. IV.) 4. How would you explain the fact that Saul consented to the death of innocent people, yet was eventually made an apostle? SA (siting Seacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 4 Gifts "Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variableness, neither shadow of tuming." —James 1:17. Gi may be classified as spiritual, intellectual or material, and "every man hath his proper gift from God" to cherish and enlarge upon. The apostle Peter says, "as every man hath received the gift so minister." From the Doctrine and Covenants, 46:11, we learn: "For all have not every gift given unto them; for there are many gifts, and to every man is given a gift by the Spirit of God." 'To one is given the word of wisdom, to another faith, to another the gift of healing, to others power to cultivate the virtues that make Christian character. Whatever one's gift, it becomes his responsibility to develop it fully and completely for the work of the Master and the advancement of self. The Savior taught this in the parable of The Talents (Matt. 25:14-30). "And he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. "His Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of the Lord...." Then he which had received the one talent was afraid and hid it in the earth and his Lord said, "Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents. For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance; but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." The Prophet Joseph Smith said, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 7/09 "Everything that God gives us ls lawful and right; and it is proper that we should enjoy His gifts and blessings whenever and wherever He is disposed to bestow... Blessings offered, but rejected, are no longer blessings, but become like the talent hid in the earth by the slothful servant; the proffered good returns to the giver; the blessing is bestowed on those who will receive and occupy; for unto him that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundantly, but unto him that hath not or will not receive, shall be taken away that which he hath, or might have had." Whether we are gifted as poet, artist, writer, reader, homemaker, teacher, leader or follower our ambition should not be to excel one another, but rather to develop our gift to the utmost, that we may better serve God and our fellowmen; then, will the gift be added upon. Discussion 1. List some spiritual gifts; intellectual; material. 2. How may each of these be improved upon? 3. What should be our objective in developing our gifts? 4. Analyze yourself. What do you consider your special gift? How may it be used for the advancement of the work of the Master? Literature THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 4 Les Miserables IN a course on the-novel the dominant literary figures of nineteenth-century France cannot be omitted. By almost universal consent Victor Hugo is recognized as one of the greatest French poets. His splendid collection of lyrics, his masterpieces in drama, his stupendous novels place him among the most renowned writers of all ages and races. It was said of him that he wrote as if he had "dipped his pen in incandescent lava". Readers are always struck by the passionate fervor, the dazzling color, the splendid imagery of his writing. He was born in Besancon, an old town and fortress in the east of France, in 1802, His father, who had been an officer in the service of the Army of the Republic, accompanied Joseph Bonaparte, brother of Napoleon, first to Naples, then to Madrid; the family had rather a wandering existence. Victor's first book of poems appeared in 1822, when he was just twenty years old, and he was early recognized as the foremost leader in that literary and artistic revolution which has been called Romanticism. Macy calls him "The prince of poets who held his throne for fifty years." He also says, "The variety and abundance of his work is past belief, and the disposition of later criticism to reduce his stature is in part a protest against his very 710 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bulk." Phelps says "The great Romantics are supermen." Certainly this is true of Hugo—poet, dramatist, novelist—preeminent in all three fields of literature. His son, FrancoisVictor, made a complete translation of Shakespeare's works into French, a remarkable achievement, and the father wrote an introduction which fills a whole volume. It sets forth Hugo's view of the nature of the great English poet's genius in so brilliant a manner that it shows how high he might have risen as a literary critic. Politics occupied a great deal of Victor Hugo's time and thought. He lived practically through the nineteenth century, which has been called the age of revolution—industrial and social as well as political— and much of his finest writing was occasioned by public events as he experienced them, history in the making. His writings were colored by his early life in Spain. He found himself in difficulties many times by his fearless expression, and spent years in exile from France. His life was as active, as sad, as romantic and as thrilling as the great literary records he has created. His biographer, Adolphe Cohn, says: ""Posterity, in placing Victor Hugo among the greatest writers of all ages, will single out Hernani as his dramatic masterpiece, Les Chatiments, his magnificent collection of lyrics, as far above all the rest, and Les Miserables as his best novel." It is with the novel that our particular interest lies in this course. UGO'S activity in this field began early. When only twentythree he published Hans of Iseland, but it was merely a forerunner of his great works of later life—Notre Dame de Paris, Toilers of the Sea, Ninety Three, The Man Who Laughs, and Les Miserables, which was published April 3, 1862. Before publication Les Miserables had been translated into nine languages, and its simultaneous appearance at Paris, London, Brussels, New York, Madrid, Berlin, Saint Petersburg and Turin was a literary event. It has since been translated into twelve other languages. Les Miserables is a universal book, for it has an appeal to readers of "every age and every taste". It appeared when the author was sixty years of age. According to Phelps, not any of the very great novels have been written when their authors were young. There must be a seasoned judgment, a perfected experience for the best creations, impossible to youth. So in Les Miserables we have Hugo with his enormous knowledge of life and history and his magnificent power in full maturity, producing "a social record" of irresistible fascination. The immediate success of the book was astounding, and it has continued to hold its place in the front ranks of the world's best fiction. The work is divided into five main books, but the central figure in the novel is Jean Valjean, a convict who became a really great man, a soul transfigured and redeemed through suffering. It is a complicated history which involves many characters, chiefly types of the poor, the unfortunate and the vicious of Paris; hence, the name—Miserable—in the full etymological sense of the word. France had lived through centuries of misrule and oppression under the Bourbons, which reached a dramatic climax in the Revolution.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 711
Napoleon had played his marvelous role in French history; there had been the re-establishment of the monarchy and its overthrow, the Republic again created. It was a time of the most intense political unrest and unstable economic conditions with the people, as always, the most acute sufferers. There were social problems which might well occupy the mind of a great writer. Les Miserables presents them with unforgettable vividness. Are these people, whom society cannot but declare law-breakers, really guilty? Are they responsible for their deeds, or does the responsibility belong elsewhere? Is the real offender the man who performs the deed, or the man who places him in a position where he can hardly escape sinning against social and moral order? One feels that Victor Hugo, with his great tenderness, is always asking: "Above all, are not these people to be pitied?"
LES MISERABLES is a most comprehensive picture of Paris, and expresses the author's conception of his own time and his suggestions for the future. It is undoubtedly a novel with a purpose, as are the great humanitarian works of Charles Dickens, but the author's poetic genius and his feeling for the ideal and the picturesque find ample opportunity for expression along with the reformer's practical sense and science. The opening chapters present one of the most saintly characters ever portrayed in fiction. The Bishop of D——— shapes his life in literal obedience to the teachings of the Savior. He is the living embodiment of mercy and kindness, tolerance and sympathy. Hugo's conception of the real Christian is portrayed in the man, who was also a very fine scholar. "He could say the grandest things in the most common language; and as he spoke all dialects, his words entered the souls of all. Moreover, his manners with the rich were the same as with the poor. He condemned nothing hastily, or without taking account of circumstances. He would say, 'Let us see the way in which the fault came to pass'... He was indulgent towards women and towards the poor upon whom the weight of society falls most heavily.... Teach the ignorant as much as you can. Society is culpable in not providing instruction for all, and it must answer for the night which it produces. If the soul is left in darkness, sins will be committed. The guilty one is not he who commits the sin, but he who causes the darkness. As we see he had a strange and peculiar way of judging things. I suspect that he acquired it from the Gospel." This sets the stage for Hugo's love of contrast—never more dramatically employed than in the introduction of the great character who is the central theme of the novel. It is also a terrible indictment against society for its cruelty to the unfortunate. In the beginning Jean Valjean was a simple hard-working peasant who sought in vain for employment, and in desperation one night he stole a loaf of bread for his sister's starving children. He was arrested and condemned to the galleys for five years, a punishment lengthened to nineteen years by his attempts to
712 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
escape. Cruelty and privation made him inert and brutish. "Jean Valjean entered the galleys sobbing and shuddering: he went out hardened; he entered in despair: he went out sullen." The author shows himself to be a master psychologist in his analysis of the workings of this man's mind. After savage treatment endured nineteen years for breaking a pane of glass and stealing a loaf of bread, Jean Valjean was, as his yellow passport indicated, "a very dangerous man" when he was at last set at liberty. It is impossible to conceive of a more tragic demonstration of "man's inhumanity to man" than the experiences of the released convict as he begs for food and shelter, and though he offers to pay for it he cannot find accommodation in a stable or even in the jail. He learned that "liberation is not deliverance. A convict may leave the galleys behind but not his condemnation." Hungry and utterly exhausted, despairing of finding a place to stay, he lay down on a stone bench on a public street when "a good woman, coming out of the church," asked him why he was there. He told her he had knocked at every door, and they had all been closed to him. "You have knocked at every door?' she asked. 'Yes.' 'Have you knocked at that one there?' 'No.' 'Knock there.' She pointed to the Bishop's little low house across the Square." That door opened to receive him. These two men are thus placed before the reader with all the dramatic skill of a supreme artist—the Bishop of D———, in very deed a saint, Jean Valjean, the convict. "Anything less than the first would have failed to soften the second." With wonderful accuracy of detail, the events of that memorable night in the home of the Bishop are related. The powers of good and evil in their eternal conflict stand revealed in the flesh. This conflict, presented by a master novelist, shows with unflinching touch on the one hand the captivity of the soul and the inevitable misery that follows the breaking of moral law; on the other, the matchless unconquerable power that lies in the truly good. In return for the first hospitality and kindness he had ever known, Jean Valjean steals the silver plates and escapes in the night. When the police bring him back the next day, the Bishop saves him by declaring that the silver had been a free gift. " 'Ah, there you are!' said he, looking towards Jean Valjean, 'I am glad to see you. But I gave you the candlesticks also, which are silver like the rest, and would bring two hundred francs. Why did you not take them along with the plates?'... He went to the mantle-piece, took the two candlesticks and brought them to Jean Valjean. 'Now', said the Bishop, 'go in peace.... By the way, my friend, when you come again you need not come through the garden. You can always come in and go out by the front door. It is closed only with a latch day or night... Forget not, never forget that you have promised me to use this silver to become an honest man." Jean Valjean, who had no recollection of this promise, stood confounded. The Bishop had laid much stress upon these words as he uttered them. He continued, solemnly: " 'Jean Valjean, my brother:
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 713
you belong no longer to evil, but to good. It is your soul that I am buying for you. I withdraw it from dark thoughts and from the spirit of perdition, and I give it to God Almighty.' " The chapter entitled "Petit Gervais" is one of the most important in the story. It describes Jean Valjean's hasty exit from the city, his encounter with the little boy, Petit Gervais, and his theft of the forty sous piece from the child. This chapter is one of those which places Les Miserables among the finest type of the psychological novel as well as of the romantic realistic. The theft itself had a very important reaction upon Jean Valjean's later life. Why had he stolen the child's money? He could not have explained it. "Was it the final effect, the final effort of the evil thoughts he had brought from the galleys?... It was not the man who had stolen, it was the beast which from habit and instinct had stupidly set its foot upon that money, while the intellect was struggling in the midst of so many new and unknown influences. When the intellect awoke and saw this act of the brute, Jean Valjean recoiled in anguish and uttered a cry of horror!" He fell on his knees and burst into tears—it was the first time he had wept for nineteen years.
Questions and Suggestions
1. Why was Victor Hugo so well qualified to write a great novel? To what literary school did he belong?
2. Do you agree with William Lyon Phelps as to the age of those who have produced the greatest novels? Cite examples of other authors.
3. What were the conditions in France during Hugo's lifetime that provided the setting for great literary works?
4. What is the significance of the title Les Miserables?
5. Have someone describe the household and home life of the Bishop of D———.
6. Briefly discuss Jean Valjean as he first appears.
Social Service Lesson 4
Psychology of Resisting Sales Pressure
I. WHAT DOES A PURCHASE CONSIST OF PSYCHOLOGICALLY?
While there can be no hard and fast definition of the steps in a purchase, we find that a formula which shows roughly the stages through which a purchase progresses is helpful in understanding the mental processes involved in buying. The purchaser, in whom our interest centers in this lesson, may better fortify himself against sales pressure by understanding something of the methods of selling. E. K. Strong, of Stanford Graduate School of Business, has given us the following formula of a purchase: (1) A want must be felt by the buyer; (2) a commodity which is considered adequate to satisfy the
714 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
want is thought of; (3) a trade name of some particular commodity or store is then thought of; (4) a purchase is made, after which (5) satisfaction or dissatisfaction is experienced. If the purchase is carried through and satisfaction is found, the process is likely to be repeated the next time a similar want is felt. With further repetition a habit of buying then becomes established. A salesman aims to point out to us, or to arouse within us, wants of which we might not have been fully aware before. He also suggests his commodity as the best way to satisfy the want. The aim of far-sighted salesmen is to make a customer, not merely to make a sale. He, therefore, arouses in us pleasant feelings in connection with his commodity and its trade name in order to make us more likely to buy the same thing again when we again feel the same want. To do this he often tactfully flatters us on our good judgment and reminds us of the satisfaction of using his article. A store will do the same through surrounding the article with pleasant impressions and through courteous treatment during and following the purchase. If so-called "high pressure" sales tactics are used on customers, a sale may be made but not a customer, because too often the buyers are not satisfied and because they experience too much unpleasantness to repeat the transaction. Tosdale defines "high pressure" salesmanship as follows: "The meaning of the term is not particularly clear, but usually it is taken to mean that the salesman dominates the buyer and compels him 'willy-nilly' to sign on the dotted line. Such tactics, often used in selling specialties when the salesman is not aiming to build up a repeat business, include resorting to subterfuges and tricks to get access to the prospective buyer, rushing of decisions, and forcing of purchases by the sheer force of talk and personality. The salesman is usually working under a strain; he depends more upon talk and impulses aroused to bring orders than he does upon any attempt to ascertain and satisfy the wants of the particular buyer." (Tosdale, H. R., Principles of Personal Selling, p. 242. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1925. Quoted by Strong, E. K., Psychological Aspects of Business, p. 347.)
II. SOME DEVICES USED TO INFLUENCE OUR DISCRIMINATION IN BUYING.
Modern competition in business has perfected many competing articles up to near the same standard of quality. Toothpastes, for example, contain in most cases essentially the same sort of compounds. They may differ in taste, smell, color, and texture; but these differences are greater than the differences in their cleansing power. We are, therefore, often led to buy one or the other because of some rather superficial characteristic. Salesmanship and advertising lead us to think of differences in products whether the differences are important or not. There are certain tricks by which articles are made to appear larger or better, which we should fully realize if we are to use good judgment in buying. For example, articles packed in bright colors look larger than those in subdued colors. Experiments have also shown that cans
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 715
with a certain proportion between their width and height look larger than others with different proportions. For articles packed in glass containers the proportion most favorable to size illusion is used; and in addition, the glass is made to magnify the appearance of the contents, i.e. green and stuffed olives. A more direct way to give an erroneous impression of size is to pack a small quantity in a large container, as is done with many candy bars in order to attract the "large eyes" of hungry boys and girls. The color, shape, and "feel" of an article has considerable influence over our ability to discriminate its value. The successful merchant has his customers feel the goods in order to make a deeper impression. The more senses through which we are impressed with an article, the stronger is the impression made.
III. HOW A PLEASANT FEELING TONE IS CREATED.
In the section in which we discussed the steps in a purchase, we saw that the arousal of pleasant feelings is essential, not only to bring about the sale in the first place, but in order to lead us to come back again when we feel another need. Many clever devices are used for creating pleasant feeling tone. A pleasing package goes a long way toward selling an article. This is particularly true with most cosmetics. Daintily, well proportioned, delightfully colored bottles and boxes create a pleasant feeling toward the article they contain, and our ability to discriminate actual quality is influenced by this impression. These devices for creating pleasant feeling tone are especially important in influencing our buying when we have no established habits of asking for trade-named articles. The arrangement on shelves so as to enhance the attractiveness of the packages is also important. The radio in recent years has done much toward arousing pleasant feelings by enjoyable music, humor, and other entertaining features. These feelings are carefully associated in our minds with the trade name of the articles so that when we enter a store and are in doubt about what to buy, this trade name is likely to be pleasantly aroused. The very sound of the trade name itself is carefully planned to create pleasant feelings, and pleasant names are perhaps more easily remembered. Pleasant clerks or salesmen play a most important part in creating the right feeling tone toward a store or product. Repeat orders often result simply from a pleasant remembrance of the clerk, and when only small differences in the actual quality of similar articles exists, the previous impression made by the salesman becomes the deciding factor between making only one sale or making a customer.
IV. A FEW DEVICES USED BY SALESMEN IN INFLUENCING CUSTOMERS.
In making a sale, a salesman must first of all make contact with you. In stores, this is simple because you come to the counter with a want in mind; but salesmen who must rustle their own prospects have the task of getting to talk to you. This is difficult because when they come you are usually busy with something else and are annoyed at their coming. To start with, then, you have un-
716 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
pleasant feelings toward them. They will use every device to make you feel happy that they came, so that you will give them a hearing. If you are not interested in what they have, you do well not to permit them to get started on their argument at all. In the sales manual of a well-known brush company, the salesman is told to pursue the following procedure in getting an interview with Madam Housewife. He is to call just before dinner on the first day, present a card stating that if she will keep it for a few days he will bring a free brush which he will give her in exchange for the card. The interview is then ended with a pleasant "Good Morning". Madam Housewife thinks, "Now, there is a considerate salesman to offer to give me something, and he did not bother me while I'm preparing dinner." A few days later, he calls in the afternoon with the brush in hand and asks for the card to be exchanged for it. While the lady is gone after the card, the salesman is to step inside the door so that she cannot slam it in his face. He then asks for the privilege of showing some of his other brushes, and so succeeds in getting an interview. A good salesman, once he gains an interview, exerts himself to establish friendly relations with his prospective customer by pleasant conversation, clever flattery, or some other device. He then proceeds into his sales argument by leading the customer to admit some minor points, thereby establishing the "yes response". This is done frequently to build up a receptive or yielding attitude in the customer so that it may carry over when she is finally urged to buy. The price of quality goods is also avoided until the listener seems to be convinced of the advantages of the new products and until the wants of the buyer seem sufficiently aroused. The obstacle that the price may present is minimized in view of the satisfaction the purchase will bring, or "easy" payment plans are suggested. Finally, there will be an effort to hasten the close of the sale, which effort is designed to prevent cooling off and reflection on the appealing but illogical arguments given. If a house is the article to be sold, we are told that another prospect is to give an answer on the deal tomorrow, and haste is therefore important. A good salesman knows that if we "think it over' we probably will talk to others in the family or perhaps to other salesmen and much of his glowing talk will be neutralized; hence, the sale must be closed now.
V. FURTHER WAYS OF MAKING BUYING EASY.
We purchase something when our want for it is strong enough to overcome the obstacles to buying. Perhaps we want something, but we want more to keep our money for something else. Or, suppose there is almost an even balance between our want for some article and our want for thrift. In that case, slight obstacles such as the nuisance of having to go to town in the crowds is enough to favor our thrift. Or perhaps before it becomes convenient to buy something of which we have thought, it becomes more convenient to buy something else, (thanks
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 717
to a salesman who may cross our way). Delivery service often induces buying because it does away with the inconvenience barrier. The display of articles in our modern drug stores makes it easy to pick up something we may want but for which we would not ask. "Cash and carry" stores utilize the convenience advantage in letting people serve themselves. The most common objection we raise against the purchase of an article is that we have insufficient money just now. In recent years this objection is easily overruled by suggesting "easy" payment plans or charge accounts. We are persuaded to take the satisfaction of a new automobile or a new refrigerator now and to postpone the "pain" of paying for it until some other time. Needless to say, much financial bondage is brought upon the heads of people with limited means by easy payment plans. That time purchases always cost considerably more than cash purchases seldom occurs to most people, and salesmen are careful to quote the price in small monthly amounts rather than in terms of the large total outlay.
VI. WHAT RULES SHALL WE FOLLOW IN RESISTING SALES PRESSURE?
Resistance of sales pressure depends upon our understanding of sales methods, because many of the same "tricks of the trade" can be used by the purchaser. The seller is human and has wants just as the buyer has.
1. Reverse sales strategy and use it on the seller. For example, appeal to his desire to build up his business through making his customers so well satisfied with the price, quality, and service that they will tell their neighbors. The salesman is as dependent upon his customers for what he wants as the customer is upon the salesman. You may also influence the salesman by making him like you through your courteous and pleasant treatment. If he likes you, he will often exert a greater effort to satisfy you.
2. Don't let an aggressive salesman know what your wants and "buying manias" are, because they are the weak links in your chain of resistance. The salesman is likely to strike you at these vulnerable points if you let him know what they are. In conversation, say as little as possible about your real feelings and desires.
3. Likewise, don't reveal your objections to a purchase, because if they are the fortification by which you are resisting the purchase, you have no other defense should they be broken down. Say that you do not care to buy and that you prefer not to give your reasons for not buying.
4. Ask the price early if you think the whole proposition depends upon how much it costs. Insist that the price come before the sales argument so that as you proceed you can discount each point in terms of what it may cost you.
5. Refuse to make minor admissions which may prepare you for admitting that you should buy. Assume a non-committal attitude and refuse to say "yes" to anything unless you have to.
6. Learn to discount irrelevant, unimportant features of an article. We should learn to detect the difference between sound fact and the
718 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"halo effect" of pleasant feelings which comes from the salesman or the superficial qualities of an article which often deceive us as to the real value of what we are buying. Learn to look for actual weight and quantity labels on containers rather than permitting their appearance to misguide you. 7. Postpone all important purchases. Discuss them with other persons who have not been under the spell of the salesman. Give yourself a chance to reflect on the really important considerations. Shop around, compare prices and values. There is usually a saving to be found by shopping judiciously, and on large transactions the saving is well worth the effort. 8. Patronize reputable dealers who are interested in building up trade through satisfied customers, rather than "fly by night" salesmen who work hard for sales today but who care nothing about making satisfied customers. A reputable dealer will stand behind what he sells, whereas transient salesmen sense no such responsibility; and even though there might sometimes be a slight saving in price from the canvasser, the final value for your money is likely to be less.
VII. BUDGETING ONE'S MEANS IS THE SAFEST PROTECTION AGAINST FOOLISH SPENDING.
We may have wondered why we should resist sales pressure anyway. The main reason is that we want to be sure to spend our money for those articles and services which we want and need most. If we follow a sensible budget plan, such as suggested by the Relief Society, we are prevented from forgetting a greater want while satisfying a lesser one. A budget prepared in advance of sales pressure is our most sensible way of seeing just what our real needs and wants are. A budget schedule in the back of our minds goes a long way toward preventing clever sales and advertising appeals from carrying us away from common sense principles of spending. Care in being economical does not mean we need be "stingy", but means that we want to let our money go farther toward satisfying all of our wants, including saving for our children's education or missions, for the purchase of a home, for our security during declining years, to say nothing of being prepared for the many emergencies which are likely to befall us.
Problems for Discussion
1. Show how small differences in actual quality of articles are used to advantage in selling and advertising strategy.
2. What part do pleasant feelings play in establishing buying habits?
3. What does true economy mean to you? How does budgeting fit in with your idea of economy?
4. What rules have you found in your experience to be valuable in resisting sales pressure?
References
1. Chase, S., and Schlink, F. J., Your Money's Worth, New York: Macmillan, 1931. Popular discussion of various sales methods which should make the buyer keep on his guard.
2. Phillips, M. D., Skin Deep, Washington, N. J., Consumers' Research. Popular discussion of cosmetic sales abuses.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 719
3. Schlink, F. J., Eat, Drink and Be Wary, Washington, N. J., Consumers' Research. A popular discussion of diet and food adulteration from the point of view of the consumer.
4. Snow, A. J., Psychology in Business Relations, Chicago: Shaw, 1925, pp. 21-43. Discussion of consumers' education for consumers' use of psychology in buying.
5. Strong, E. K., Psychological Aspects of Business, New York: McGraw-Hill, 1938, pp. 15-21, 318-347. Technical but readable account of principles of selling, from which many suggestions can be obtained on sales resistance.
Family Life Family Relationships Lesson 4
The Place of the Father in the Home
IN our discussions of family relationships the place of the father in the home is worthy of special consideration because of several reasons, only two of which we shall mention at this time. First: In considering the changes that have come about in the family during the last century, we are prone to place great emphasis on the fact that the father no longer occupies the position of domination which he held in earlier periods; thus, obviously, his power of authority has declined even though he continues to represent the final authority in family life today. This is most significant when we recall that until the beginning of the present century the exercise of authority was one of the two most important functions accepted by our culture in defining the role of the father. The other function was that of providing for the economic needs of the family. As we minimize the exercise of authority by the father, we tend to emphasize his role as provider even at the expense of the many additional family functions that can be effectively performed only by him, Due to this shifting of the relative importance of these two primary functions, many fathers are in a state of more or less bewilderment as to just what is expected of them. One father said recently that if he provided the members of his family with sufficient money to maintain a comfortable standard of living, if he directed the education of his older children and handled the problems of discipline that were too difficult for his wife to handle, he thought he was doing all that any father should be expected to do. Such a definition of the role of the father ignores completely his function in maintaining intimate contacts and establishing companionship among family members, and it does not conform to our present concept of the successful father's role. Second: The decrease in the num-
720 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ber of hours per day and in the number of days per week that the father spends at his job allows him additional time for participation in family activities. If he does not appreciate the importance of his place in the home, he probably will engage in other activities that will demand all of his leisure time. Elmer says: "In the early years of the present century, the long hours, the full six and often seven-day week, practically eliminated the father from family activities and from close contact with his children. The shorter day and the shorter week have given the father a greater amount of leisure than any generation of fathers in America have ever known. When he lacked leisure, the attitude of aloofness from his children was developed. Details of childhood association were delegated to the mother, to employees, and to outside agencies. With the increase of leisure for the father, he is at a loss to know what to do. He lacks the technique, as well as the emotional habits, of becoming once more an intimate member of the face to face group. It is, of course, a temporary and transitional situation, which when once recognized will mean 'the return of the father to the household'. His active participation will tend to eliminate many of the problems of social maladjustment now so apparent in young people." We spend our time just as we spend money—the more we have the more we spend, because the luxuries
*Elmer, Manuel Conrade, Family Adjustment and Social Change. New York: Ray Long & Richard R. Smith Inc., 1932, p. 286.
of yesterday become the needs of today. Hence, only through carefully planning the use of our time and our money are we able to use them wisely. If the father does not value the need and the importance of his participation in family life, he will, undoubtedly, spend his leisure time in other activities upon which he does place a high value. We do not wish to imply that the father can or should spend all of the time that he is not at his work with his family. This would be impossible; because, if he is a worthy member of the church, he will devote a part of his time to service for his church; if he is a citizen, in the true sense of the word, he will be expected to devote some time to community interests. We shall not attempt to mention all of the activities that may make demands on his time, for there are many, indeed, and these demands increase as life becomes more complex. With life as complicated as it has grown to be, it seems desirable that each person consider it his duty to set up for himself a standard of values in regard to activities, and that he apportion his time and energy according to his determined values. On such a scale of life's activity-values, should we not place family functions at the high point? The question is often asked: How much time should a father reserve for family association? One authority suggests ten per cent of each twenty-four hour period. However, we feel that we cannot be so specific as to suggest the number of hours thus spent; it is a problem for each father to determine for himself, according to his own particular situa- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 721 tion. The important point is to get every father to reserve a sufficient portion of his time for family activities so that he will be a participating member of the group in all aspects of family living. His own appreciation of his importance will be enhanced in proportion to the amount of time he spends with his family and by the nature of his participation in family activities. A CASUAL survey of some twenty fathers revealed the fact that fifty per cent of them were firm in their belief that their family enjoyed more freedom and were under less strain when they were away from home. One father said, '""The minute I step into the house, I detect a strain and a forced reserve on the part of every member of the household. I fee] that all are on their good behavior just because I am present. I am treated with the greatest of respect and consideration, but sometimes I doubt if they have much real love for me." A somewhat close observation of the practices of this family group tevealed the following: The mother had instilled within the children fear of their father by threatening to tell him about any misdemeanor of which the children may have been guilty during his absence, never forgetting to add, "and you know what your father will do". Another practice was for the mother to gain obedience and cooperation from the children by promising to keep certain knowledge concerning their "bad" behavior from their father, or to indulge the children in extravagances to which the father undoubtedly would object had he known of such expenditures. Sunday was the only time when the father was expected to be at home, and the children had been trained to think that every Sunday was "Father's Day". This was the one day of the week when they were expected to exercise an undue amount of self-discipline, restraint, and extreme quietness, because "after all, Sunday was the only day Father was at home". The children looked upon the walk to and from Sunday School with their father as a duty rather than a pleasure; respectful answers to questions constituted the conversation that was carried on between father and children, and _ each thought he was behaving according to the wishes of the other. The children actually had the attitude that this self-restraint in the presence of their father was the sacrifice he expected of them in return for what he gave them. The father acknowledged that frequently he might have spent more time at home, but he thought that his unexpected presence would not be entirely welcome to the children. He knew that if his eighteen-yearold daughter, Elizabeth, was entertaining some of her friends in the living room, there would be no place for him to go except to his bedroom; the younger children would be there with their mother, and he would feel as if he were an intruder, interrupting their play and laughter. He often wondered why a father should be kept so far outside of the lives of his children. Husband, wife and children were all greatly dissatisfied with the family situation but did not realize what the difficulty was until these practices, and some others, were called 722 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to their attention. Within a year, through the conscious and determined effort of the parents to modify their own attitudes and behavior and to re-educate the children, changing their attitudes with regard to the place of the father in the home, the family experienced no less than a revolutionary change in their relationships—and needless to say, a much happier situation exists. At the present time there is voluntary cooperation on the part of each member of this family in practicing great economy so that sufficient money may be saved to reconstruct the front porch, making it into a cozy den; then, there will always be a place for Father, as well as other members of the family, even if Elizabeth or some one else is entertaining guests. We think it is not too dogmatic to say that children who are reared by members of one sex only are not adequately prepared to live successfully in a world of people composed of members of both sexes. Other things being equal, every child who is denied the companionship of either parent suffers a severe handicap in his development. Such a handicap can only be partially overcome by even the most efficient agency outside the home. Dr. LEONARD S. COTTRELL, JR., who is one of our most outstanding authorities on family living, made the following statement when asked recently for his opinion concerning the place of the father in the home: "We are inclined to think of the place of the father in the family primarily as that of breadwinner (provider) and as final authority and 'head of the household'. We are sometimes prone to overlook less obvious, but no less important, functions. Fathers themselves are likely to minimize some of their functions in the family, which I wish to mention: "Leaving aside his important social psychological role as a husband to his wife, I wish to suggest his profound importance in the emotional development of his children. "With respect to his daughter, the father's attitude and behavior toward her and his relationship with her will determine in a fundamental way her attitude toward her feminine role and her basic pattern of relations with men and with the man she finally marries. 'This complex process calls for the greatest skill and insight fathers can muster. "With respect to his son, the father furnishes a model which will be taken over to some extent by the son, whether or not the son wishes to or is conscious of it. 'There is a deep need for the son to receive affection from the father. Moreover, the pattern of relationship the father demonstrates in his marriage | will determine in large measure and in many ways the relations the son will later establish with his own wife and children. "Another important result of the father's behavior is the child's basic attitudes toward authority. Will it be one of passive submission, adolescent defiance or one of constructive and motivated participation in establishing, reconstructing and maintaining cooperatively the rules of common life? Much of the answer to this will be determined by the way the father establishes and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 723 maintains authority in the family situation. "These are only a few of the many fundamental ways in which the father plays an important part in the family besides that of breadwinner and authority. "It is indeed unfortunate that so many fathers as well as mothers operate on the assumption that the fathers have little contribution to make to the personality development of their children." By and large, that person is held in highest esteem in the community whose characteristics, attitudes and behavior conform most nearly to the cultural definition of his role in the group of which he is a member. If we consider the cultural concept of the role of the "good father', we shall find the following characteristics to be outstanding, according to Dr. Cottrell: 1. He is the wage earner—the provider He represents final authority He is the administrator He is protector in crises. He is a companion to his wife and children He is instructor—adviser He performs the heavy work in the home He is morally respectable He is kind and patient He is affectionate 11. He is well informed 12. He is just 13. He is strong and active 14. He can always be depended upon and trusted C0 %S WD upw sp » 15. He is consistent and somewhat stern 16. He is to be obeyed and respected and held in inild awe When Henry Van Dyke was asked what he owed his father, he gave the following reply: "What do I owe my father? Everything! He was my best friend; a parent who knew how to be patient with an untuly child; a preacher of joyful faith, who practiced what he taught; a good companion in the woods and the library; a fearless man with a kind heart; a Christian without pretense or bigotry; a true American gentleman of the democratic type. Every day I give thanks for him." Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. Add as many more characteristics as you can think of that will fit into the cultural definition of the tole of the "good father'. (Good is telative ) 2. Give examples from your observation of family life to show the extent of the father's influence on his sons and on his daughters, according to Dr. Cottrell's statement. 3. To what extent and under what circumstances, if any, do you think the father should assist with household duties? 4. Can you cite cases illustrating what you consider an ideal relationship between father and son? Between father and daughter? Analyze your cases with the idea of trying to determine the relative happiness that is derived from such relationships. IThisston Lessons L. D. S. CHURCH HISTORY Lesson IV Our Book of Mormon (To be used in place of Literary lesson) weir was the translation of the Nephite Record called the Book of Mormon? What is the Book of Mormon about? And how important is this work in our Church? These questions we shall answer in this lesson. When the Book of Mormon was first published, which, as we already know, was in March, 1830, people who did not like it began to call it the "Mormon Bible" and the "Gold Bible'. This was because they wished to ridicule it. The reason why it was named the Book of Mormon is very simple. Its author was named Mormon. Mormon was an ancient prophet, army general, and writer. He lived about four hundred years after Christ. One of the last of his nation, he was led to make an abridgment of the history of his people, who had been on the American continent ever since about six hundred years before Christ. ~ His abridgment was on plates of gold, such as we have alteady described. And so his book was called the Book of Mormon— that is, the Book written by Mormon. Thus we speak of the Book of Isaiah, the Book of Matthew, and so on. There is no book in the world like the Book of Mormon. It comes more nearly to being an inspired book than any other in all sacred literature. First, it was written by inspiration. Mormon was led by the Spirit of God to compose it. Then it was revealed by a holy angel—that is, a man who had been raised from the dead for the purpose. Finally, it was translated "by the power of God" by means of the urim and thummim. As we shall learn presently, the Voice of God bore record that the translation was correct. Of no other literary work ever written can all these things be said truthfully. The Book of Mormon does not displace the Bible, as some people have imagined. It is not really "the Mormon Bible". The Book of Mormon only supplements the Hebrew Scriptures. It tells us something more than does the Bible, something more about the dealings of God with man. The Nephite Record no more does away with the necessity for the Bible than the New Testament does away with the necessity for the Old Testament. Two peoples are told about in the Book of Mormon. These are, first, the Lehites and, secondly, the Jaredites, although, perhaps, we should reverse this order, and mention the Jaredites first. The Lehites were the descendants of Lehi, a minor prophet among the Hebrews. Under divine guidance he conducted his family and ~ some others, about twenty persons in all, from Palestine to what is now RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 725 America. This was about six hundred years before Christ. After the death of Lehi, the little colony divided, unfortunately. Some followed Nephi, Lehi's fourth son, into the Wilderness; the rest stayed with Laman, Lehi's oldest son, near the coast where the company had landed. The former were called Nephites; the latter, Lamanites. These two peoples increased greatly in numbers, but they lived very differently. 'The Nephites were civilized. 'That is, they knew how to read and write, they were skilled in the art of smelting ore and making tools with which to work, and they had a copy of the Hebrew Scriptures —our Bible down to the time of Lehi. The Lamanites, on the contrary, had no literature, no mechanical skill, and no religion to speak of. While the Nephites wore clothes which they themselves had made, their neighbors went almost naked. After the Lehites had been on the American continent for about four hundred years before Christ, the Nephites, on their way farther into the wilderness, came upon another people—the Mulekites. The Mulekites had come to America eleven years later than the Lehites. They were so glad to see the Nephites that they took the name of the newcomers, and the two peoples became one nation. Shortly after this time the Nephites discovered twenty-four gold plates which, when the record on them was translated, proved to be the history of still another people who had been led by inspiration to the American continent. They were the Jaredites, of whose national life a brief summary is given us in the Book of Ether, by Moroni, Mormon's son. Thus the Book of Mormon tells the story of two separate and distinct peoples—the Jaredites and the Lehites. But the Lehites comprise three different nations — the Nephites, the Lamanites, and the Mulekites. About two hundred years before Christ, however, as we have seen, the Mulekites and the Nephites joined and became one nation. That, in brief, is the story of the Book of Mormon. AND now what is there to the Book of Mormon besides its story? The answer is, in a word, its wonderful teachings. Since the Nephite Record is a history of God's dealings with the ancient Americans, we would not be justified in thinking that the teachings of this book are different from those of the Bible. And as a matter of fact they are not. To be saved one must obey the same general principles and ordinances, no matter where or when one may live. This is made clear in both the Bible and the Book of Mormon. In the Book of Mormon, however, these doctrines are much plainer and simpler than they are in the Hebrew Scriptures. Anyone who will read the statements about the same teaching in both of these works, will readily see that this is so. Take baptism, for instance. In the Book of Mormon we lea, first, that baptism is essential to entrance into the Kingdom of God; second, that it must be by immersion, not by sprinkling; third, that infants are not subject to baptism, 726 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE because of their innocence; fourth, that baptism is for the remission of sins. And these aspects of the ordinance are made so clear that no one can misunderstand. To be sure, all this is in the New Testament also, but one has to hunt for the ideas. They are not put in such clear language. 'This is why modern Christian churches, which claim to be based on the same teachings, have different forms of baptism. One baptizes by immersion, another by sprinkling, and still another by pouring water on the head. Then, too, some will baptize only grown people, while others baptize babies. Take, for another example, the teachings concerning the Christ. In the New Testament the idea that Christ is God, the Savior, the Redeemer, is not so plain that one reader will have the same idea as every other reader on this important point. No two readers of the Book of Mormon, however, can possibly get two different views on the subject. Christ is God, the Son of God, the Savior and Redeemer of the world. This is true of almost everything that is common to the two books— the pre-earth life of man, the spirit world, the doctrines of the Church, and so on. The most striking thing, though, about the Book of Mormon is its spirit. Jesus, after his resurrection from the dead, appeared to the Nephites, and the description of this great appearance is touching beyond anything we have elsewhere. But before as well as after that event the idea of Christ colored everything in the lives of the better class of Nephites. 'The whole book is saturated with the spirit of our Savior— his mercy, his tenderness, his compassion, his anxiety over mankind. Of this phase of the Nephite Record the Prophet Joseph says, "I told the brethren that the Book of Mormon is the most correct of any book on earth, and the keystone of our religion, and [that] a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts than by any other book." On another occasion he said, "Seek to know God in your closets, call upon him in the fields. Follow the directions of the Book of Mormon, and pray over and for your families, your cattle, your flocks, your herds, your corn, and all things that you possess; ask the blessing of God upon all your labors, and everything that you engage in." Questions 1. How important is the Book of Mormon to us? How came it to be called by this name? 2. Tell the story of the Lehites down to the division; of the Lamanites; of the Nephites; of the Jaredites; of the Mulekites. 3. Give instances of the clearer statement of the Book of Mormon over that in the Bible. 4. How much of this book have you read? What parts of it do you like best? Why? Note: Map printed in July issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 727 Music Department (Continued trom page 704) emphasized by its size. A very large beat indicates a slow tempo, a small one is used for fast tempo. The tempo may be retarded during a composition =by slowing down and enlarging the beat, or made faster by speeding up and making smaller the beat. When the tempo remains unchanged, a large beat will indicate loudness, a small one softness. The loudness may be changed during performance by changing the size of the beat in proportion to the loudness desired, keeping the speed constant. The primary functions of the baton are to indicate the rhythm and tempo, to start and stop the singing, and to indicate holds during the progress of the piece. Its secondary functions are to change the tempo and loudness as required by the proper expression of the emotional message of the composition. In these it is assisted and emphasized by the left hand, the use of which will be discussed next month. Wife: Now don't get mad... It just looks like it cost $35, but it's really from ZCMI's Little Shop-and cost only $7.88! 728 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at the West'sLeading School Sonveniently located In Salt Lake, Ogden, Boise, Idaho Falls. For full details, clip this ad and mail it with your name and address to: EX-CEL-CIS Beauty School Main & Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah Many of us are like the little boy we met trudging along a country road with a cat-rifle over his shoulder. "What are you hunting, buddy?" we asked. "Dunno, sir, I ain't seen it yet." —R. Lee Sharpe. « eee COULD: TALK SAVE SIGHT WITH Sele SEE YOUR DEALER OR UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. On She Way So Persia (Continued from page 673) tains, surrounded by typical Persian formal gardens. 'Tea plantations in the vicinity gave the general landscape an attractive appearance. From here our journey started up toward the Elburz mountains. Heavy vegetation covered the northern slope, decreasing in density as we drove toward the south. This road up canyons and over the mountain is the most spectacular one I have ever seen. From below sea level it rises to nearly ten thousand feet, the summit being cut by a tunnel one and two-tenths miles in length. Thousands of men were working on the road, erecting heavy masonry retaining walls and bridges, as well as widening and improving the road. Besides the men on the roadway, there were many loaded donkeys which necessitated the constant use of the automobile horn. From the tunnel outlet came the descent to the plateau on the south. A fine stream of water ran down the canyon near the road, which reminded us of Provo River. As we left the mountains at dusk, caravans and groups of donkeys were wending their weary way toward Teheran, the capital city. The entire scene showed that we were really in the Orient, even though trucks and passenger cars whisked rapidly past these ancient ships of the desert. Real darkness had come before we reached our destination. The beckoning lights of the city gave a feeling of friendship on the part of this city that is to be our temporary home. OF SPECTAL INTEREST TO CONFERENCE Visitors Each Conference time we make it a point to offer visitors some outstanding values in L. D. S. Church Literature, as well as in General Books, Gifts and other merchandise from our complete stocks. AN EXTRA SPECIAL VALUE, WHILE THEY LAST An Introduction to the Study of the Book of Mormon By J. M. Sjodahl, Price a a Regular SOME NEW BOOKS FOR YOU... Life of Joseph F. Smith, By Joseph Fielding Smith...Pose A Voice From the Dust, By Genet Bingham Dee Latter-day Saint Hymns, By George D. Pyper New Edition, Gespel Doctrine BS oe Book of Mormon Geography, By J. A. Washburn. Comprehensive History, Roberts, 6 Volumes, Cash and Carry. O. Roeser CG Documentary History, 7 Volumes, Cash and Carry, If Mailed $1.00 Extra Regular Price We also have many other exceptional values which it will pay you to investigate. While at Conference, come in and see our choice selection of Personalized Christmas Cards. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah A New and Practical Binding Development A Better Way to Keap. Your Currant. Magazines Here is a new and convenient way to keep your magazines as they come in, orderly and readily accessible. It consists of a durable, attractive cover, so devised that twelve issues of THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE can readily be placed therein, ready for convenient reading. This binder eliminates the confusion on your reading table which is apt to result when your various current magazines are left to lie about loose. We can supply covers for holding twe: ve current issues of any Church publication, (and other publications as well), at surprisingly low prices. Write for further information, or call at our office for a demonstration. THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine NO SHADOW OF DOUBT IN HIS FUTURE... The Outcome of a Beneficial Income Life's race depends so much on getting off to a good start... Snsurance can be had at such a low cost no family should dare risk the uncertainty of the future without life insurance protection. Insurance on parents guarantees the education of children. Insurance on children teaches them thrift and promotes independence. "we. "You Bet é. Im Going. On to College" BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE had a circulation average for the first six months of 1939 of 43,364 each month. This is a fine record to be made by any Church publication. The present subscription results indicate that a substantial increase is in order for the coming season. This all speaks well for the Magazine and its contents as it does for the Organization which makes such a record possible. Many local firms whose customers are mostly women are overlooking a splendid opportunity to advertise in the pages of the Magazine. Auerbach's.. 727 Deseret News PressBack Cover Deseret Book Store...... Inside Back Cover Ex-cel-sis Beauty School.......802 Fisher Master Bakers727  L. D. S. Business College.... Inside Back Cover THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MORE THAN 40,000 SUBSCRIBERS ... AUERBACH'S New Linen and Bedding Department Where You Can Buy the Finest Quality Merchandise At Reasonable Prices Listed are a Few of the Nationally Advertised Linens:. Kenwood Blankets Wool of the West Blankets Emmerich Down Comforters and Pillows Fruit of the Loom Sheets and Bedspreads (Exclusive at Auerbach's in Salt Lake City) Martex Bath Room Ensembles John S. Brown Shamrock Linens Such outstanding manufacturers help us wrap satisfaction in every package Linens and Domestics—Third Floor Founded 1864 Phone Wasatch 300 "L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!' FISHERS Start YOUR Business Vitamin "D" Career NOW BREAD Fisher's Vitamin D Bread is good! It gives extra health besides... Because the vitamin D it contains helps you build good teeth and strong bones. Look for it when you shop! A Product of the Fisher Master Bakers At their Big Home-Owned Bakery All the Year—Low Rates of Tuition. Ask for our 'Bulletin of Information.' L. D. S. Business College A Product of The Fisher Master Bakers When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine At Their Big Home-Owned Bakery 70 North Main St.—Salt Lake City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XXVI NOVEMBER, 1939 No. 11 Contents Special Features Frontispiece——Early Winters..Celia A. Van Cott 730 (Illustrated by Leland N. Peterson) The Grateful Heart..... Kathleen B. Nelson 731 Amy Whipple Evans.....Julia A. F. Lund 732 Relief Society Conference............. 749 Fiction Cathedral of Peace…Dorothy Clapp Robinson 734 Thanksgiving For Emily.............Beatrice K. Ekman 739 General Features …Annie Wells Cannon 745 Editorials: "Big Sister' Activity......... 746 Red Cross Membership Drive.........747 Items of Interest: New Serial......748 Character Education Bulletins............. 748 Lessons Theology——Saul's Vision and the Changed Life................ 782 Messages to the Home—Manifestations of Love........ 785 Literature—Les Miserables 786 Social Service—How To Sell The Gospel790 Family Relationships Family Unity 795 Mission Lessons Witnesses 799 Poetry Prayer of Thanks.........Alice Morrey Bailey 729…..Celia A. Van Cott 730 The Long Yeats.........Hortense Spencer Andersen 744 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. PRAYER OF THANKS Dear Lord, all those we hold most dear Are fed,. And safely home tonight. Their gay And careless talk need not be hushed by fear. Destruction does not rend each smiling day. Hate is not a living beast—nor greed—nor dread. Beauty lies unseared on Willow, Larch. Song has not been scarred by martial tread. Apocalypse's Horsemen do not march In ghastliness across these hills and plains. No man is slave-born to the will of power. No screaming terror drops from aerial lanes. In humbleness, we thank Thee for this hour. —Alice Morrey Bailey. EARLY WINTER Late geese beat the airways with tired wings, Flying low through autumn''s steel-gray skies. A marsh lake looms below; the huge flock swings Downward with their wild coarse honking cries. A startled rabbit scuttles through the brush; A deer leaps from a thicket with a bound. A storm sweeps down the hill, a sudden rush Of snowflakes swirls across the frozen ground. Strong webbed feet churn green waters to the shore To seek release from winter's icy night; When dawning breaks they brave dull skies once more In wedge formation on their southward flight. Through storm-bent trees chill frost winds blow, And God's earth resis beneath a sheath of snow. —Celia A. Van Coit. anathema The Relief Society? Magazine Vol. XXVI NOVEMBER, 1939 No. 11 The Grateful Heart By Kathleen B. Nelson "It is a good thing to give thanks unto the Lord, and to sing praises unto thy name, O most High: "To shew forth thy loving-kindness in the morning and thy faithfulness every night. "For thou, Lord, hast made me glad through thy work: works of thy hands. I will triumph in the "O Lord, how great are thy works! "O brutish man knoweth not; neither doth a fool understand this." AVID is one of the best loved characters in the Old Testament. Perhaps this is because he was blessed with a grateful heart. The Psalms are revealing poems of praise. Whether downcast or uplifted in spirit, David's faith in God's goodness and power is unfailing. Under all circumstances he is positive of His mercy and love. Through the cries from his grateful human heart, one feels the love of David for God and also God's watchful care of David. Blessed is any man or woman with a grateful heart. The grateful heart is the giving heart and places one in the certain way of bringing happiness to others. We should be thankful for the everyday blessings of life. To take for granted God's provision of food, shelter and clothing, to be unmindful of the blessings of sunlight, trees and stars, to lose sight of the value of friends, means we are losing the opportunity of acquiring a grateful heart—losing that precious feeling Psalm 92. That comes through gratitude and its expression. There are degrees of gratitude, and each degree differs in the joy it brings. It takes more discernment, more spiritual energy, to pluck from suffering the thorn of bitterness and, find a blessing there than to see in the laden table the evidence of God's great kindness to us. But just as it takes more, so its returns are greater. Thankfulness is a form of communication between God and man. The communication line should be kept open by keeping it in use. Then, with David of the grateful heart we, too, may say: "How excellent is thy loving-kindness, O God! Therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. "They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house; and thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures. "For with thee is the fountain. Of life: in thy light shall we see light. "O continue thy loving-kindness unto them that know thee." Psalm 36. Amy Whipple Evans By Julia A. F. Lund RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 733 WHEN former President Clarissa S. Williams chose her Board, Amy W. Evans was among the number, and she remained with the group when President Louise Y. Robison assumed leadership. For more than eighteen years Sister Evans gave splendid service as a member of the General Board of Relief Society. Familiar with the work of the Organization through her association on the Granite Stake Relief Society Board, where she was a member of the social committee and had charge of the teacher-training work, she brought to the general organization knowledge and experience added to a wealth of native ability. Sister Evans is a woman of extensive and varied interests. Highly intellectual, she is deeply spiritual, a combination which blends beautifully in a womanly woman, which Sister Evans is in the truest sense. During her many years of service, she has been a member of every standing committee on the Board and has wielded a great influence in shaping its educational policy. In addition to visiting practically every stake in the Church, she has helped prepare the Conference-Convention programs. She was the Acting Editor of the Relief Society Magazine during the year Miss Alice Reynolds, while Editor, was absent in Europe. Splendidly trained through extensive study and much experience as a case worker, Sister Evans was the supervisor of the Social Service Department of the General Office for a number of years. The following is a tribute from one of her students: "Thus far in my experience as a student of social welfare and as a professional social worker, I have yet to find a professor of social work, an executive of any social welfare office, or a social case worker who has been as inspirational to me as Mrs. Amy W. Evans. I consider it a privilege to have worked under her supervision because from her I have learned the most valuable lessons that a person in my profession could learn. She possesses the qualities which go to make up eminence in her field: First, she has a keen intellect which she applies well in her work; second, she can make proper decisions because she has the capacity to weigh all parts of a situation carefully."; In recognition of the fine service rendered in the field of social work, a Fellowship established at the University of Utah School of Social Work was named in her honor. The Amy Whipple Evans Fellowship is a fitting and enduring tribute to her. The members of the General Board who have had the privilege of serving with Sister Evans feel their lives greatly enriched by association with her and a sense of deep personal loss since she has resigned from the Board. A clear thinker, she is also deliberate, so her opinions carry much weight. She has a fine sense of humor and abundant originality. Her deep insight into life gives her great sympathy and good judgment. Sister Evans is an artist of which harmony is a vital element. She believes that the art of living is "the finest of the fine arts". Her contribution has been a rich one in helping her fellowmen to realize this. Cathedral of Peace By Dorothy Clapp Robinson CHAPTER ONE AS Carolyn entered the cottonwood grove, she flung her arms in surrender to black despair. Dropping to a fallen log, she jerked her hat from her head and ran her fingers through her hot, clinging hair. The hair was prematurely white and might with care have been beautiful. About her damp brow, little faint-hearted curls emphasized the harshness of a cheap, nearly-grown-out permanent. Her skin, though deeply tanned, was smooth and clear. She looked to the trees, the undergrowth, to the blue sky, seeking an answer for that throbbing insecurity within her; her glance came back barren. "Why? Why?" she repeated over and over. The listening silence gave back no answer. With a half-smothered cry of pain she stretched her length upon the log, and with hands under her head looked about. Here she was alone physically, just as everywhere she was alone mentally and spiritually. A deep sky, patterned into blue lace by leaves and branches, canopied the grove. It reminded her of a cathedral window. This was her cathedral—her Moment of Peace— the spot to which she could flee when in need of communion with strength. Each segment of blue, or white, or gray, if there were clouds, was to her a prayer, an unfulfilled want. 'There were so many unfulfilled wants, and today there was no peace., "Why, why did he do it?" she asked. A slight breeze set the leaves quivering, and her lips quivered with remembrance. Long ago she had thought she had lost the faculty for being hurt. She wished she could weep and wash the hurt away. The woody silence, the smell of rotting log, the earthy fragrance of damp ground gradually worked their miracle, and the spinning, confusing wheel of her emotions slowed to a dull rhythm. Thoughts, like spokes on a wheel, became separate and distinct. "Why should I take you?" Turner had asked this morning. "There is no place there for you." Carolyn tried to remember just when he had drifted into saying such blunt, cruel things to her. It had been a long time ago, and they had not been so blunt in the beginning. It had been equally as long, until this morning, since she had asked to go with him, so he might have taken her this time. She had especially wanted to go—perhaps, because she was tired; perhaps a vague warning was sounding within her; perhaps, because yesterday Want had been brought to life within her. "Why are men so selfish?" she cried in rebellion. "Turner is ashamed of me. I bore him. He doesn't make a secret of it any more." Fifteen years ago Carolyn Evans and her husband, Turner Evans, had come to this remote valley, perched RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 735 high among Idaho hills. Life had been stern at first, while Turner was building up his herd. Work, babies, and saving to get ahead had been her world. When a branch of the Church had been organized, she had, against his protests, insisted that he take the children to Sunday School without her; she hadn't finished her work. Her work still wasn't finished. It wasn't necessary that she go to town; he could make her purchases. She was always too tired when he suggested some form of amusement; besides, dressing to go places was expensive for a woman. It had grown increasingly hard and less essential with the passing of years. Now, suddenly, she realized Turner was no longer a husband, but a stranger — a stranger whose thoughts and feelings she knew not at all. He had not "settled" as she had. He had reached beyond the confines of this small valley. Men came to him for advice. They gave him responsibilities. But into his expanding life he went alone—his wife had no share in it. "Why am I put aside?" she demanded, "I have worked hard. I have sacrificed personal desire to economy. I have helped pay for the place. Months on end I: haven't been to town. I have been a good wife—and now my husband is ashamed of me." A great bitterness welled up in her and dried her unshed tears. So many men as they rise to power discard the bride of their youth. ' With a twinge she remembered what one of her neighbors had said years ago: "Who is it the men notice?" This worldly-wise old woman had said, "Did you ever hear a man say, "Look at dear Mrs. Brown. She works so hard, and scrimps and saves. She never spends money on herself.' Did you every hear one say that? No, indeed. They say, 'Notice Mrs. Green. Isn't she smart? Always ready to go places with her husband. Lucky man, Green,' " At the time, Carolyn had turned up her nose, mentally, at such crude philosophy. Now, looking back over the passage of years, she wondered if Mrs. Bassatt had been trying to warn her. If so, she had not received the warning. She had been so secure then. T the sound of approaching footsteps, she sat up quickly. She was thankful now that she had not cried. It was Kane Holland, the bachelor rancher from across the highway. He stopped short at sight of her. "Hello, Carolyn," he said, and even in her perturbed state she noticed his voice was harsh and strained. "Imagine you resting this time of day. Anything wrong?" Startled at the question, Carolyn met his eyes then turned her own quickly away. His eyes had lost their familiar kindness and told something she had never heard before. "No. Certainly not." Her emphasis was unnecessary. He sat down beside her. "We have been friends for many years, Carolyn, and acquaintances even longer. You need not pretend to me." He took a short breath and then hurried on, "So you are not going to the Stock Growers' Convention at Crystal Springs." "Who told you?" "I didn't need to be told. I can it in your face, in your bearing— in the fact that you are here." 736 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Well? Is there anything so tertible about that? A great many wives will be staying home." "Not many. Yes, I think there is something quite terrible about* you staying home while Turner goes abroad to cover himself with popularity and prestige. I wonder if you even know that he is to give the main address?" Carolyn had risen quickly. "That," she said sharply, "even if true, is not your affair." He, too, rose and faced her. He was a slight, fair man with mild gray eyes, through which he viewed the world with sympathy. His manner was usually one of detached concern. Now, his eyes were not sympathetic nor his manner detached. His voice took on unexpected depth. "I think it is my affair. It is always the affair of a man who—". She rose abruptly, and Kane, sensing her feeling, left quickly. LEFT home! Again! And Kane knew—knew the reason as well as the fact. Probably every one did —and she had been so careful even around her own children. That knowledge, with all its implications, killed her last subconscious hope. People knew and were talking. She would not have their sympathy! She would not be a discarded wife! But that left only one thing to do. She stood aghast at the sudden thought. But wasn't it better to be alone than to lose the last shred of self-respect? Then suddenly the dread of struggle took possession of her. No. She hadn't courage to be a divorced woman. It would be too hard alone. There was no use in a woman—Again she saw Kane's eyes, heard the timbre of his voice. Could it be—? Her heart gave an excited flutter, then raced. Yes. Yes, that was what he meant. That was what he had been trying to tell her for a long time. Her quickened pulse brought a flush to her cheeks, a sparkle to her eyes. Could it be possible that Kane Holland loved quiet, drab Carolyn Evans? How could it be possible; but it was, for now she remembered certain words and tones. He loved her, and he was kind. The boys liked him, perhaps better than any man they knew. This was her way out. She would do the discarding, quickly. It would not be right, but then nothing in this life of hers was right, any more. "Hi, Mom." She started guiltily. Through the trees came Robert, her first-born, with a shovel over one shoulder. At twenty-one he was a tall, powerfully built young man who measured six feet two without shoes. He moved deliberately and a little heavily, as if the weight of growth was still upon him. His words were few and quietly spoken. "What are you doing here?" "I came to think." He put his free arm over her shoulder. "I'm sorry, Mom." She did not want to discuss it, even with him. "Where have you been, Bob?" "On the west eighty, irrigating." He drew a deep breath. "I talked to Kane." "What about?" alarm. "Money to finish school. Going to loan it to me." "No," she cried quickly, "you can't do that." "Why not?" she asked in He is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 737 "Dad would not allow it." The boy stiffened. "He hasn't offered it." "Did you ask him?" "No. Don't intend to." "You asked Kane." "That is different." "Oh, dear," she sighed. She thought of something that had happened years ago. Her churn had gone to pieces with a big churning in the offing. They had gone to town for anotlier. Once there, T'urner had gone about his business without offering her any money. She had not asked. That evening, with the churning still undone, Turner had exploded. "Couldn't you have asked, or reminded me?" he had stormed. "I am not supposed to think of everything." Now Bob was making the same mistake. "Speak to him about it," she said. His lips tightened into stubborn lines. "He knows I want it. I shouldn't have to ask." "But you do." "But I won't. I am getting it from Kane. It will be purely a busihess arrangement. We went into that pretty thoroughly." "Not from Kane; he has been so —so neighborly." "Exactly." He looked closely at her. "Listen, Mom, you needn't be afraid of what Dad will say. I will see that you are not mixed up in the deal." She sighed with relief. He had not guessed. Reaching out she touched his arm. "Come. Let's walk on." THE path led up away from the trees and over a high point that, disdaining the highway, extended like a finger into the bottom land. It was covered with dried grass and some straggly sagebrush. There they paused. Before them, and slightly lower, stretched a long narrow valley cut by a tree-fringed river. About three miles north, where the valley widened, suddenly the river split into three channels. Between the main and west streams lay many lush acres—goodly acres of grass and alfalfa. This was the Evans ranch. It included, also, an eighty west across the highway, and all the bottom land between where they stood and the river. It extended south past Carolyn's cottonwood grove. In the triangle where West Fork made a sharp turn to rejoin the parent stream was a higher spot of ground. There stood the Evans home, unadorned; peeling paint gave it a spotted effect. Flanking it were the outbuildings and the cortals. Across the main channel to the east was another ranch with many and pretentious buildings. That was the Elkhorn ranch, bought early this spring by A. B. Straughn. Its twenty-four hundred acres embraced all the land between the middle and east channels, and crossing East Fork ran well into the hills beyond. The coming of the Straughn family to this valley had abruptly changed the course of many lives. Due largely to their leadership, the Church branch had been, only last Sunday, changed into a fully manned ward, with Mr. Straughn as bishop. Mrs. Straughn, as Relief Society president, was in the process of officering the organization. Last evening she had called on Carolyn 738 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and asked her to be a counselor. Carolyn had immediately refused. She could not do such work. It had been years since she had even neighbored with the other ranch wives. She had never, since coming up here, belonged to a club or even the P. T. A. "Please do not make that decision final," Mrs. Straughn had begged, in patting. "Think it over for a few days and let me know." Now as Carolyn stood on the point overlooking the valley she wondered for the first time if she should reconsider. It would mean a great deal of work and necessitate being away from home a great deal. At the sound of indrawn breath she turned quickly. Bob, too, was looking toward the Elkhorn, and in his eyes was a poignant fire that frightened her. It frightened her because it came to her for the first time that this one beside her was a man, with a man's mind and emotions. Work and responsibility had aged him prematurely. Prematurely? Perhaps not. Turner had been just his age when they had been married. 'Time passed so quickly. Bob, so quiet and reticent with gitls, had been touched at last. Carolyn's eyes softened. "She is such a lovely girl." "She is perfect," he whispered. Then, startled at his own statement, he stiffened. 'What do you mean?" he demanded. She smiled and laid a hand on his hard-muscled arm. "The same thing you mean, Son, but—," her voice faltered. The reflection of the soft happy dream left his face. "But—" he cried fiercely. "I know what you were going to say—I'm not her kind. That's—" "No, Bob, I—" "Yes you were. Well, if Iam not, why not?" He was excited now and stuttered a little in his efforts to speak quickly. "Why aren't we like them? Why aren't we like a lot of people? Why isn't our home what it should be?" "What is home?" "It is shabby and—confused and stagnant. We live to work and eat. Spending a dollar is a crime. Why can't Dad be human?" "Bob!" "Why act surprised? If our home is all right, why don't we associate with other people? Why does Dad have absolute say-so about everything? Have you ever tried having your way? Why should he look like a million and you resemble a poor relation? How you have stood it all these years is more than I can figure out." He stopped at sight of her white, stricken face. "I'm sorry, Mom, honest I am, but all this isn't fair to us." a He was a man now. Love was opening his eyes and heart, helping him to appraise, to search out values. Man's desire to possess, to be independent, was shaking him with its intensity. If she left Turner, she would have Bob's support. A warm glow softened her tenseness. "Why," the boy returned to his complaint, "don't we live as the Straughns do, only on a_ smaller scale? Why isn't our home kept up? Why haven't you kept up?" "In the beginning," she began gropingly, "we had a hard pull financially. We were—" (Continued on page 802)
For Emily By Beatrice Knowlton Ekman
IT was a raw November morning. Emily made a fire in the Home Comfort range with chips that were piled in the woodbox back of the stove. She filled the teakettle from the water bucket in the pantry and put the oatmeal on to cook. When the kitchen was warm, she opened the door to the sitting room adjoining and, putting on an old sweater, went out to milk the cow. In spite of her years, her step was light and quick. Her fingers numbed with cold as she unfastened the chain on the gate of the corral, but the warmth of the cow's udder soon warmed them, and the milk quickly filled the small brass bucket. She set the bucket on a barrel inside the gate and turned the cow into the field. The chickens were pressing against the wire netting of the coop. Strewing some grain in the straw, she opened the coop door, and out they flew in wild disorder to scratch and scatter the yellow waste. Then, taking the bucket of milk, she returned to the house for her breakfast. While going about her work, her thoughts ran far afield. The house was too large now that they were all away—strange that she had once thought it too small. The large dining room and parlor were only opened to be aired and dusted, and the upstairs rooms were only used when the children came for a visit in the summer. Her own room with the walnut furniture, the north room as it was designated, was just as it had been before Allen died. She combed her gray hair, still streaked with black, and put on a fresh apron. Her slender hands tied the strings in a neat bow at the back. They were useful hands that had done much service. Maybe there would be a letter. She put on her wool shawl and went outside. The mountains to the east were blue with haze, and the tree branches were naked in the wintry sun. Water from the flowing well dripped over the wet barrel and ran down the ditch to the chicken yard and thence along the fence to the field. "It is cold even in the sun," Ellen said to herself, as she moved with quiet dignity down the enclosed road toward the mail box, her thin form erect. She espied something white in the mail box and hurried a little. There was an almanac advertising pills, an envelope with an unsealed flap—nothing else. Suddenly she felt tired. Could any of them be sick? There were many things that could happen. She knew that they loved her; they were good children, even if they did not write often. She always excused them. Her older ones had small families that needed a lot of time and attention. Her younger two, John and Nancy, had not been married long. She had missed them most. When her husband had died, they were so young—John four; Nancy, only eighteen months. A long time to be a widow.... Allen would have been an old man by now. Try as she would, she could see him only as he looked when he had kissed her that last
740 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
morning. She could see his broad shoulders and strong arms when he tossed little Nancy above his head, his blue eyes and wavy hair, his white, even teeth when he laughed and looked back at her from the wagon as he picked up the reins. She had watched him until he was out of sight beyond the south field.... Then, they had brought his body home after the accident.... Never while he lay in the house was it her Allen—he had gone completely. Always it gave her a feeling of agony to remember. She looked up and down the lane before she went through the gate. The lake stretching to the west was like molten silver; Antelope Island was a dark line inverted in the water. When plowing was underway, white gulls circled and followed the dark upturned furrows swooping down with shrill cries. Now the fields were drab with stubble. Emily sighed and closed the gate. Her shoulders drooped as she made her way back. "Among them all, someone might have written; even a card would have been a comfort. There was not time now before Thanksgiving for her to hear. She had usually gone to them at Thanksgiving time. It is strange that they did not send any word.... Not a line from one of them.... Why are children so thoughtless? This is what one gets for being old."
THE chickens were wandering about looking for bugs and worms along the ditch bank. It was less lonely outside. She sat down on the steps and leaned against the porch post; her shawl slipped from her shoulders. The sun went behind clouds—it got cold. Suddenly she pulled the shawl up, looked at the sky and arose stiffly. "I shouldn't have stayed out so long," she said apprehensively. Returning to the house, she found the fire was out; she felt chilled. The day continued to grow colder. Later, she fed the chickens and brought in wood and coal and water from the flowing well. It was as much as she could do to milk, and she was very tired when finally she had taken care of it. She covered herself with a blanket on the sitting room lounge. She was subject to violent headaches and feared them. "No one would know I was sick, the neighbors are so far away, and they know that I go to the children every year. It's rather a thankless job, being a mother. Not one of my children to be with me.... What do they care?" Slow tears came to her eyes, and she wiped them away on her apron. How tender Allen had always been when she was sick. "Oh, Allen, Allen, I am so alone!" Then, dozing off to sleep, she dreamed that he came and held her hand, stroked her forehead; she was comforted and less lonely. When night came, she drank some warm milk and got into bed. Some time later, she woke with one of the worst attacks she had ever had. Finally, she had to get up and make a fire. The rest of the night she either walked the floor or sat in the rocker by the stove. When dawn came, she crept into bed and fell into an exhausted sleep. The night had been very cold, but when she waked the sun was shining. She tried to get up, but it was too great an effort. She lay back on the pil-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 741
low with a moan of pain. "No one will come, the children will not worry before tomorrow anyway, and goodness knows what might happen by then," she fretted. The curtain stirred at the window, and the sun made ripples on the mirror of her dresser. "I must get myself something warm to drink, maybe a glass of milk or a bowl of gruel," she said. But the hours wore on until she became light-headed with weakness and hunger. There was some one sitting by her bed—quite a young man. At first, she did not recognize him. Then, she asked softly, "Is it you, Allen?" He smiled; his teeth were white and even. "Of course, Emily, I have been here all night." He had not changed at all; yet, she had not known him right away. Just his being with her brought a sense of peace and well-being. She lay content, watching him until she fell asleep.
IT was late afternoon when she waked. She was entirely free from headache and felt stronger. The chair was empty. She heard voices and wondered whose they could be. Nancy and John were in the room. Emily looked at them, "Where did your father go?" she asked. They looked startled, almost frightened. They came to the bed and kissed her tenderly. Nancy began to cry, "Oh, Mama darling, are you very sick?" "No," Ellen answered, "I am fine." She stroked Nancy's thick blond hair. "Your hair is like your father's, Nancy. You have his blue eyes, John, and his broad shoulders." "Well, you gave us a good scare when we arrived and found you so ill," said John, smiling down at her. "Yes," laughed Nancy, the tears clinging to her lashes, "We thought the surprise was on us." Ellen looked at them both. "You might as well tell me what you are up to, you never could keep things from me." But they did not tell her; they went to work as if they had never left home. John found an old sweater, shoes and pants that he had left there two summers ago. Nancy had brought a house dress, and she put on one of her mother's aprons. "How did you get here?" asked Emily later when they were in the sitting room and she was tucked in the big chair where John had carried her, a blanket about her and her feet on a pillow. He moved his chair to let Nancy by with a bowl of hot gruel, which she had prepared for her mother. "We came on the train, and old Marriot brought us down in his mail wagon," John told her. Then, looking out of the window, John said, "The sun goes down pretty far south now, it's getting low. I suppose it's up to me to milk the cow and bring in the wood. Have you any coal, Mom?" "Not very much, son; I thought I wouldn't need any more until spring, but there is plenty of wood." "Leave it to me, I'll have a pile as big as the house in no time." Taking the brass bucket, he went out whistling. Nancy slipped out and quietly put away the packages which she and John had smuggled into the house. After John came in with the milk, she made preparations for dinner, while he got the ax from the granary and went out to the pile of wood. The strokes of the ax sounded sharp in the still twilight. When he came
742 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in with an armful of wood, the table was set, and the supper was ready to serve. Nancy had piled her mother's hair high, her eyes were brightened with pleasure, and she felt refreshed. They were so merry, and Emily, looking at her two children, could almost believe that they had never left her. It seemed only yesterday that they were all living together in the large, busy, happy home. "Tomorrow," John said, "I'll cut some logs for the grate and get the dining room stove going." It was getting dark, and Nancy lighted the hanging lamp over the table and the small side lamp in the kitchen. "Do you think she caught on to the surprise, Nance?" said John, while they were washing the dishes. "I can't tell whether she has or not, but she looks fine now. It surely gave me the creeps to hear her talk about Dad that way; she must have been dreaming when we first came in." John went back to his mother, and Nancy took a candle and went upstairs to John's old room over the parlor. She stood looking around the old familiar room—nothing was changed. She opened the door and stepped out onto the little porch extending over the bay window below. The fields, stretching out under the stars, were still and somber; the new moon hung over the lake far to the south. "It is still home to me," she said wistfully. Then, leaving the door open, she returned to the sitting room. "You look tired, Mama, I think we should all get to bed."
EMILY waked in the morning to the sound of the ax, chickens and turkeys flapping and scratching. For a moment, she could not remember. She felt refreshed and free. She was used to the cold bedroom; she laid back the covers and reaching for her shoes and stockings, hurried into her clothes. Nancy was peeking into the hot oven as she went into the kitchen. A pan of warm corn bread sent forth a delicious savory odor, as did the sausages that were sizzling on the back of the stove. The table was set by the window with a white cloth. There was jam and fresh butter and thick cream for the oatmeal. "Oh, Nancy, why did you let me sleep?" Nancy gave her a light kiss on the cheek, "I tried to be quiet, but I guess I made a lot of noise." Emily poured water into the basin on the washstand, bathed her face and hands, combed her hair before the little mirror and arranged her dress collar. Opening the door to throw the water from the basin, she saw John coming with some stove wood. She held the door for him. "Hi," he greeted her, "aren't you a bit late with my breakfast?" He bent and kissed her lightly as he squeezed past. At the table he drew out her chair; when she sat down, he sat beside her. "Which turkey are we to have, Mom?" Emily smiled as she unfolded her napkin. "I don't care, son, take your pick; take two if you like." "I have my eye on the big bronze; he must weigh at least twenty-five pounds." Nancy brought the oatmeal and slid into her chair, "Trust him to take the biggest," she teased. After breakfast, they both went out to watch John catch the turkey. It was hard to get him into the wire
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 743
enclosure where John had put some corn, but finally he cornered him and, though a bit disheveled, John came out triumphant. "Are all of the family coming?" asked Emily, as they turned toward the house. Nancy laughed, "No use trying to surprise you, is there? Yes, they are all coming in time for dinner Thanksgiving Day; we are the advance guard. It will be such fun. I am so thrilled. Are you glad that we will all be home again? John and I are to do all of the work; you don't have to do one thing." Emily stood still and looked at Nancy, her fine eyes bright with pleasure. All she said was, "Come down and see what is in the cellar." Nancy helped her raise the heavy door of the outside cellar and followed her down the clean steps. The sun shone through the east window on neat rows of bottled fruit, pickled cucumbers, red beets, glasses of jelly and preserves, red tomatoes and catsup. There were bins of potatoes, onions, hubbard squash. There was a small barrel of sauerkraut. Nancy looked around, "But Mama, this is so wonderful! I don't see how you did it." Emily went to a shelf at the far end of the cellar and raised the lid of the stone crock. Nancy, close beside her, peered in. "Mincemeat!" she cried, delightedly. "I made it from the old recipe that has been in the family for one hundred and fifty years," said Emily proudly. "I wanted all of you to have some of my own making this year." Nancy sniffed and rolled her eyes, as her mother replaced the lid. She looked with enthusiasm at everything. Emily reached for a jar of beets, "John is so fond of beets. Is there anything you want to take up?" "Yes," Nancy said, as she took down a jar of mustard pickles, "no one makes mustard pickles to suit my taste like you do." She followed Emily up the steps and closed the trap door. Standing on the porch, Nancy looked away toward the south and east, toward the mountains that were looped in austere grandeur, toward the valleys sloping with their checkered fields to the lake bottoms. "This is so much freer than being cooped up in a city; I suppose I am spoiled," she said, as she took a deep breath of the sweet air. She watched John as he hung the huge turkey under the mulberry tree by the cellar. Emily called to him, "There is a pail of lard on the shelf by the window in the cellar. Will you bring it up for the pie crust?" She knew how he would love to see the well-stocked shelves. When the two of them came into the house, Emily was picking over the cranberries. Nancy made the pie crust, and Emily baked the hubbard squash for the filling and made the cranberry jelly. Afterward, they laid out the long linen tablecloth and the best silver knives and forks. John had made a fire in the hot-blast stove and had piled logs in the fireplace in the parlor. Great chips and small firewood banked the logs ready for a blazing sheet of flame when lighted. Emily was her old self. There was hustle and bustle, talk and laughter. The turkey was made ready to be stuffed in the early morning. There would be turkey, mashed potatoes, small creamed onions, dried corn, giblet gravy—
744 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Emily typed them all off in her mind — cranberries, crisp celery, squash and mince pie. It would be a feast—a feast of love.
WHEN night came, she was tired but happy; she had gone from room to room—everything was in order, even the cloth on the extension table in the dining room. She felt strangely young and vibrant. The station wagon that had brought the family from the depot had gone. The children and grandchildren were all assembled. The house was warm and filled with savory odors. The logs blazing in the fireplace filled the rooms with luxurious comfort. Outside, the sun gave out no warmth, but the air was fresh and bracing. Emily sat at the head of her own table as she had done through all the years of her widowhood—a table elegantly set, with food well prepared and delicious. She looked down the long table surrounded by her dear family—Allen's children and hers, gathered at her home. How Allen would have loved it! She waited for John until he finished sharpening the carving knife and placed it on the platter where the turkey lay brown and hot from the oven. As he bowed his head to bless the food, tears of gratitude came to Emily's eyes. All her family with her once more—home for Thanksgiving!
THE LONG YEARS By Hortense Spencer Andersen
Today she gathered berries, lush and sweet Along the sunny hillside, by a row Of river willows. Her aged faltering feet And time-worn, fragile self forgotten; though From yearning and vain expectations, grief Had ravaged her in manner most unjust. She fluttered as a sear and yellow leaf Hung loosely by a fusty stem of trust Blown thin before a wind of famishment. Forgotten, yes, the torment and despair Of empty long years. Now, the day had lent Itself to rare enchantment. She breathed air From off Parnassus' heights, while on the loam She knelt. Her children, now, were coming home.
HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon
NOVEMBER— Thanksgiving can only be a reality when wars shall cease and men accept the Prince of Peace.
THE Red Cross is again called into service, and the revered name of Clara Barton, whose ardent pleadings brought America into that great mercy organization, comes to mind. Miss Barton was in Geneva, Switzerland shortly after the international treaty known as the Treaty of Geneva had its birth at Geneva, Switzerland in 1864. The idea of neutralizing all nations and parties in efforts of relief was conceived by a Swiss gentleman, Henri Dunant, who when traveling near the scene of the battle of Solferino in northern Italy was horrified at the sight of the unburied dead and uncared-for wounded and dying. On his return to Geneva, he immediately went to work to perfect an organization for the amelioration of such conditions.
QUEEN ELIZABETH, the Duchesses of Gloucester and Kent are busily engaged this fall in organizing the British women for all kinds of war work. The Dowager Marchioness of Reading headed the responsible task of getting the children and invalids out of urban danger spots, and the country estates of the titled English are their refuge.
KATE M. BARKER of the Relief Society General Presidency recently visited all the stakes and missions of the central, eastern, and southern states, and Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary of the Relief Society, made an official visit to the Oahu Stake and Hawaiian Mission.
JOHANNA SANDSTROM, 98, and Martha Wolstenholm, 85, of Utah were both honored recently on their anniversaries. Both are still actively engaged in good works.
ANNA FREUD, daughter of the psychoanalyst the late Sigmund Freud, will edit and publish her father's views on the mentality of Adolph Hitler. She was her father's collaborator.
ETHEL VANCE'S new book Escape was selected by the Book of the Month Club. It is an unusually satisfying mystery story.
MARTHA ALLEN ROBBINS of Kaysville, Utah died recently. She was 95 years old and one of the early pioneer mothers whose life story was full of interesting incidents.
MARGARET CRISMON SPENCER, a lovely daughter of pioneers, died late in September. She was a prominent figure in Salt Lake social and club life and active in Relief Society work.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - President AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - First Counselor
KATE M. BARKER - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - - - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD Rosannah C. Irvine Beatrice F. Stevens Nettie D. Bradford Rae B. Barker Ida P. Beal Nellie O. Parker Marcia K. Howells Anna S. Barlow Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Jennie B. Knight Belle S. Spafford Emma A. Empey Donna Durrant Sorensen Annie Wells Cannon Vivian R. McConkie Lalene H. Hart Leda T. Jensen Cora L. Bennion
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XXVI NOVEMBER, 1939 No. 11
EDITORIAL
STAKES and wards are once more intensively engaged in the Membership Drive. Though not entirely attaining the goal set last year, sufficient impetus was given the work to justify our looking forward to a secure 100,000 by 1942. The ingeniousness and efficiency of coordinators merits our highest commendation. The fine support of executive officers as well as all groups within the Organization has played an important part in the momentum attained and membership secured. The clever, original, dignified showmanship has created and sustained interest and stimulated activity. We congratulate all who have so earnestly furthered this important program.
While we appreciate the ingenuity of our sisters in securing new members, we urge that great care be exercised so that nothing will be introduced which will in any way work a hardship upon the sisters or prove in the least embarrassing to them. It has been called to the attention of the General Board that a few of our organizations have introduced "The Secret Pal" or "Big Sister" movement. We recognize that this capitalizes upon a deep-seated need of all sisters for an intimate, personal friendship, that it carries with it the element of surprise, which is delightful, and the joy of giving. However, there are in our societies many sisters for whom providing even the least expensive gift —a card—would be a hardship. Health as well as financial circumstances makes it difficult for many of our most devoted women to secure appropriate remembrances, small though they may be. Then, it is a truth that strive as we will to hold these gifts to a mere expression of love and friendship some people are so filled with the love of giving and their circumstances make it so easy for them to give generously that they go beyond what is intended—first, they send a card, next a linen handkerchief, then silk hose. The sister receiving these more expensive gifts may be one who can scarcely afford a card; yet, within her heart she longs to be equally generous to her "big sister". So, rather than being made happy over the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 747
gift which is hers, she is unhappy because she cannot in turn give as much as she has received. Then, too, when the time comes to disclose the identity of the "pal" or "big sister," if gifts have not been comparative in value, there may be great embarrassment. We realize the motives behind the introduction of such things into our Society are the finest. But Relief Society discourages anything that may in the least degree make anyone feel inadequate. We are a great sisterhood, loving one another irrespective of economic or social levels. Our expressions of love and friendship are continuous, everyday expressions, the kind word, the good deed. Required, material gifts for everyone irrespective of need or circumstances have no place in our program.
Red Cross Membership Drive
FOR years the red cross has been the emblem of mercy at scenes of disaster and suffering. Dependent solely on the willingness of the public to alleviate suffering, the American Red Cross is again appealing to the nation for a million more members to expand its various services and to stand ready for the unpredictable days ahead. The Organization will embark November 11 on the greatest membership campaign since the World War. Only through strengthened membership can it meet more effectively the eventualities of suffering in the year to come. It is only good citizenship to respond to the call of this great humanitarian organization, to pledge our confidence in it by enrolling as members. The cost of individual membership is $1 per year, or as much more as a person wishes to give. Though many calls are made upon our members in furthering our own welfare program, we feel that we should cooperate and participate in the service of the Red Cross.
Attention: Ward Presidents
ONCE again we call the attention of Relief Society presidents to the fact that the General Board is not endorsing any commodity of any manufacturer irrespective of what it may be or the merit of same. Presidents will be notified by the General Office or through the columns of the Magazine regarding any endorsements of the Society. We trust presidents will bear this in mind when approached by salesmen.
OF INTEREST
New Serial
DO you have a problem? Then you will want to read about Carolyn Evans, married to harsh, brilliant Turner Evans, whom she bores and who has long ago left her behind. Their unequal development, with its attendant conflicts and disagreements, is in a fair way to ruining the life of her son Robert, a tall, powerful lad, in love with cultured, refined June Strauch, but who will not tell her of his love because of his home condition. The home situation is affecting Carson, the second son, in quite another way. In his search for security he is setting his feet upon the wrong path. All these things Carolyn senses. Then, there is her own heart to consider and the love of another kind, good man, Kane Holland. Shall she try to build a life for herself? Shall she for her children's sake try to bridge the slough of fifteen years' mental stagnation? Is divorce the answer? Read how Carolyn worked it out and perhaps you will see something that will help you with your problems in the story, CATHEDRAL OF PEACE, the new serial by Dorothy Clapp Robinson, beginning in this issue of the Magazine. Mrs. Robinson needs no introduction to our readers. Her contributions to the Relief Society Magazine as well as other local publications have long since established her as a fiction writer of merit. Her appreciation of home life as interpreted by Latter-day Saints enables her to bring to us an important message in her story CATHEDRAL OF PEACE.
Character Education Bulletins
THE Utah State Department of Public Instruction has recently placed in all public and school libraries copies of two excellent bulletins, Character Education and Suggestions for Teaching the Effects of Alcohol, Tobacco and Other Narcotic Drugs. The schools of the State are carrying forward a program based upon the suggestions of these bulletins, adapted of course to the local needs, in compliance with the following House Bills: No. 60, an act to provide for special education for persons under 18, regarding the harmful effects of alcoholic beverages, including beer containing alcohol, tobacco and harmful narcotics; No. 61, an act to provide for special education in those qualities of character and habits of living that will make for upright and desirable citizenry. The Relief Society is deeply interested in the problems of youth and whole-heartedly endorses any program designed to promote the welfare of children. We urge our members to acquaint themselves with the bulletins, which have been made so easily available, in order that we may more intelligently cooperate with the schools.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE October 4, 5, 1939 Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
THE Semi-annual Conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, October 4-5, 1939. The Conference consisted of eight sessions: An opening meeting, five department meetings, a general officers' meeting and a general session for the public. President Louise Y. Robison presided over the Conference. The attendance was exceptionally large, consisting of general officers, board members and class leaders. The response to the roll call was as follows: 120 stakes, 3 missions, 3 mission presidents, 91 stake presidents, 139 counselors, 52 secretaries, and 491 board members.
Following the custom of previous years, the subject matter for the department meetings was the formal educational program of the Relief Society. The music, instrumental and vocal, was especially fine. During the public session, Mrs. Vincent Hilles Ober, President of the National Federation of Music Clubs, was in attendance and spoke in high praise of the work of Relief Society in the field of music, especially complimenting the efforts of the Relief Society Singing Mothers.
REORGANIZATIONS
The following reorganizations were reported:
Date Stake Released Appointed President Sept. 10, 1939 Cache Lula Y. Smith Mary M. West Sept., 1939 East Jordan Alta F. Andrus Lucy B. Godfrey June 18, 1939 Franklin Bertha P. Larson Alice S. Merrill July 5, 1939 Highland Jennie B. Duffin Allie R. Barnes 1939 Hollywood Zatelle F. Sessions Julia E. Parry July 16, 1939 Idaho Falls Mary S. Jordan Martha R. Telford Sept. 30, 1939 North Weber Cora Christensen Nellie W. Neal Sept. 1939 St. George Juanita L. P. Brooks Marian M. Snow Sept. 1939 Star Valley Pearl B. Holbrook Arvilla Hyer Aug. 27, 1939 Wayne Mary A. Brinkerhoff Ruby M. Forsyth 1939 Maricopa Mary M. Davis Clara Goodman Aug. 27, 1939 Ogden Cora S. Jenkins Kate F. Woodbury May 31, 1939 Oneida Ellen B. Larson Ora W. Packer Aug., 1939 St. Johns Camelia J. Rencher Clara R. Sherward June 25, 1939 Sevier Estella Poulsen Myrl Brugger
Missions Central States Nellie D. Woodruff Edna M. Bowman Hawaiian Cassandra D. Bailey Armada B. Cox New England Fern C. Eyring Valeria B. Young Northern States May G. Hinckley Ethie M. Muir
Opening Session
GREETINGS By President Louise Y. Robison
MY dear sisters, although I appreciate the honor of extending greetings to you, I have difficulty in expressing the sincere admiration and love which the General Board has for you dear co-workers. Many of us have worked together for years, we have solved problems together, we have prayed for each other, we have witnessed unselfish devotion to the work of Relief Society until our hearts are as one. We miss some of the dear ones whom we have learned to love until they seem part of our very lives. In their places, however, are new members of our great "official family" whom we greet with love, having confidence that they will carry our banner forward with the same spirit of devotion as the former sisters have done. I wish we had some way of introducing the new members. Each of us might try to see how many she can individually welcome. If you newer sisters (I dare not say younger) only knew how delighted all of us would be to meet you, I am sure you would go out of your way to introduce yourselves. Our meetings today will be devoted entirely to the educational work, and we especially welcome the class leaders. We deeply appreciate the excellent work you are doing. Hardly a report has been given this year by the General Board member who has visited your stake which has not been high in praise of the way you have treated the topics assigned to you. I sometimes wonder, though, when you are engrossed with your special lesson, if you create the desire in the ward class leader to think of the development of the whole Relief Society program, or only the lesson which the class leader is giving. The theology lesson could be made much stronger, and the members of the class would receive a broader understanding if some correlation could be made between it and the literary and social service lessons. There is hardly a lesson given in literature and social service, and certainly not a teacher's message which would not be vitalized by reference to some principle taught in the theology lesson, and all lessons should be applied to everyday life. Relief Society is working for the development of the individual woman. A well-rounded program is provided. We place it in your competent hands with the prayer that you will be given inspiration from the Great Teacher, that you, too, will bring life more abundant to those whom you teach.
Visiting Teacher Department Belle S. Spafford, Chairman.
SENTIMENTS FROM THE HOME By Vera S. Hilton President, Deseret Stake Relief Society
FROM a scientific standpoint, a response from ten to twenty per cent of a group is considered a very accurate representation of the opinion of that group. With this thought in mind, mimeographed sheets were sent to twenty per cent of our 930 family heads (of course, by heads I refer to the women) asking for their reaction to Relief Society visiting teaching. Of the 142 women replying, only two did not enjoy nor approve of the visits of the visiting teachers, stating that they had no benefit nor spiritual value in their homes. One woman thought the effort required was very great for the amount of benefit derived in any home; the other, that the main value was to the visiting teachers themselves and suggested that they visit only in the summer or occasionally, as need arose. The remaining 140 women reported that they enjoyed and appreciated the visits and felt they had benefited by them. The following values were listed: Educational—new ideas brought into the home; improved morale—cheered, rested, encouraged, comforted; inspirational—filled one with a desire and determination to live better lives and perform duties more faithfully; social—appreciated kindness and friendship of the visiting teachers; community—developed good will and sense of community responsibility; spiritual—left fine spirit in the home and better understanding and appreciation of the Gospel; Relief Society—general reminder of Relief Society, its values, purposes and responsibilities. Criticisms and suggestions for improvement of the work had to do not with the system itself but with the administration of it. In every case where comment was made, the women preferred having a message and having it discussed, not read, hurried through, nor broken into with discussions foreign to it. Other suggestions were: Visits should be short, business-like and friendly, not curious nor personal. News should not be carried from one home to another nor teachers indulge in faultfinding or talk about personal troubles. Teachers should be more humble and prayerful; they should be better prepared and use better methods. The teacher-training meeting should be more faithfully attended and visiting teachers have and use the Relief Society Magazine. Families in the district should be studied and special needs in each home understood. Attempts should be made to find new ways of appealing to those who do not attend Relief Society. It was suggested by a few Relief Society women that teachers remind them of their dues and donations. Some women suggested that fathers and children, if at home, be included in the discussion of the Message and that it be discussed with them if the mother were absent. Others thought the attitude of homes visited 752 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE should be improved, while some felt more care should be exercised by Relief Society presidents in the selection and assignment of teachers; that teachers be so instructed as to more fully sense their duties and feel their work a privilege. It was also suggested that a definite time be set for visits. A few, and these were visiting teachers themselves, felt that they had too much contact with the Message: First, in the teacher-training meeting, then as they took the Message into the homes in their districts and again as it was brought into their own homes by other visiting teachers. May we, through our visiting teaching, be able to strengthen our people, give them new thought, new comfort, new courage, new desire and determination to live the abundant life—the life of service. VISITING TEACHING TODAY By Counselor Kate M. Barker IT is a wonderful experience to meet together as we are this morning—a group of people coming from so many different places and yet understanding one another so well because of common ideals, common interests. 'This is the great purpose of life. Our Father in Heaven wishing for the greatest development and happiness of His children, planned a world where they would love to learn, to live and work together. The world is coming to realize that the biggest problem it has is the problem of human relationships. "To be alive in such an age! With every year a lightning page Tumed in the world's great wonder book Whereon the leaning nations look. When men speak strong for brotherhood, For peace and universal good." More and more, men are speaking strong for brotherhood. Organizations, national and international, are being formed for the purpose of bringing about brotherhood, which means understanding, appreciation, helpfulness, peace and love. But before there can be real brotherhood, there must be a common acceptance of the fatherhood of God, and this the world has not. Our Father in Heaven is expecting His Church to take the leadership in this movement. The fatherhood of God is a reality to us. He has not only given us the greatest of laws, ""Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thy self" (Luke 10:27), but He has also given us the perfect machinery for the realization of this love. This machinery is the Church, and every organization in the Church has a very definite responsibility. The work of Relief Society visiting teachers strikes at the very heart of brotherhood. When the Relief Society was first organized and the visiting teachers appointed, there were very definite needs to be met. People were joining the Church, one of a family, two of a city, and coming to Nauvoo. How lonely some of them must have been! But these friendly visitors went about, saying by their visit, "You are not alone, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 753 you are with your brothers and sisters." It was a hard winter. There was sickness and poverty. People had to keep close to one another, to render aid where there was need and in order that those who had might share with those who had not. Throughout the pioneer days there was a great need for this service. But as the population increased, the need was not so great. Gradually, mutual helpfulness was to a great extent replaced by specialization. There were hospitals, nurses, undertakers, social workers. But there is still need for this type of service—no one knows when, and it is better to go ninety-nine times when there is not a need than to miss the one time when there is. There is always the spiritual need. The need for the friendly hand, the encouraging word, the comforting word. There are always people who are discouraged, those whose faith is weakening, those who are in sorrow. This service is probably the greater challenge, for to be of real service in the spiritual realm one must have the "understanding heart", as_ expressed in the poem "The Visiting Teacher's Prayer" by Afton Free Baird: "Give me, Oh Lord, this day, The power to do one kindly deed; Help me this day, I pray, To plant one little seed. Of faith and hope within the heart Of one despondent. "Give me, Oh Lord, this day, The power to lift another's sorrow; One word of comfort say That will brighten the tomorrow Of some sad heart that ever longs For one departed. "Help me, Oh Lord, this day, Unselfishly to give; Show me the way, I pray, A better life to live, For I shall dedicate this day To Thee, Oh Lord." Do we appreciate the wonderful efficiency of our Organization? In an emergency, practically every home in the Church could be contacted in a day. No one need ever be desperately in need if the visiting teacher's work is 100% efficient. The Relief Society is for every adult woman of the Church, and in our Relief Society meetings we contact regularly only about one-fourth of them. It is easy to say they are not interested, that we plan a fine program and are ready to hold out the hand of fellowship, if they will only come. But that is not the spirit of the Gospel. That was not Jesus' way. He did not stand on a mountain and teach those who would come. He went into the homes and market places to seek the people. The message of the visiting teacher is the only Gospel message which reaches many of the homes. In our complex civilization, with the rapid tempo of living, many spiritual values are being lost. The Church must guard these values if we are to know the fellowship which our Father in Heaven wishes us to know. Before the days of quick and easy transportation,. There were “neighborhoods". People exchanged labor, the social life was largely the life of the neighborhood; neighbors worked together, played together and developed a strong "we'' feeling. The sorrow of one was the sorrow of all. No one felt he was standing alone. There was a feeling of security because of being one of the neighborhood group. But now we do not 754 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE know the people living on the same block, or in the same apartment house. Life today is expressed in this verse: "I thought the house across the way was empty, Till yesterday crepe on the door, made me aware Some one had been living there." Have you ever been in a large city and had sickness in the family and felt that terrible loneliness which comes at such a time? People want neighbors. Human beings crave that security which comes from feeling that there are those near who are interested in them. When the Relief Society visiting teachers come to our homes, their presence says to us, "You are not alone. We are your friends. If you need help, we are ready to help, and back of us is a great organization of sisters who are also your friends." The sense of security which we feel will be in direct proportion to the sincerity and dependability of the teachers and the regularity of the visits. We are awakening to the full import of the great principle laid down by Paul, "No man liveth unto himself" and, "Finally be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another, love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous; not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing, but contrariwise blessings; Knowing that ye are thereunto called that ye should inherit a blessing." John's message was, "Love one another". But love does not come from a sense of duty; love comes from understanding and appreciation. In the hurry of life today we do not learn to really know people. We see so many people in this fast-moving age that our so-called friends are scarcely more than acquaintances. Lives touch only on the surface. In the horse and buggy days, one could drive along the street, see a friend at the side of the road, drive to the side, stop and visit for awhile. But today, our eyes are glued to the road; we do not see who is at the side of the road, and as a result, there are many neglected kindnesses, many forgotten courtesies and often stupid blunders and misunderstandings. We judge people too often by things that do not count—external things, little peculiarities. We see, too often, the little weaknesses and fail to see the strengths. As life becomes more complex, it is increasingly difficult for us to know people whose natural interests are different from our own. But if our Church cannot bring together people whom the ordinary affairs of life tend to push apart, because of education, economic levels, social backgrounds etc., if the testimony of the Gospel which we have does not make for a "fellowship" based on understanding and appreciation, then we are failing. THE visiting teacher comes into our homes each month with a spiritual message. She comes to talk with us. We have an opportunity to know her because we are meeting on the highest level, talking of those things about which we feel the deepest. We have a common meeting ground—a testimony of tlie Gospel. The prophet Ezekiel was commanded by the Lord to visit some convicts. Ezekiel was a learned man, he was a prophet and resented the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 755 idea of being sent to visit the convicts. He thought, "What have I in common with them?" But he went and sat with them and talked with them and came away astonished at what he found in the hearts of these convicts. In one of our wards was a woman whose standards of housekeeping were not as high as the standards of the community. As a result, she was criticized, not taken in as an intimate member of the group. A visiting. Teacher who was assigned to that district said, "How can I talk with her? What have I in common with her?" But she visited her several times, and soon after in a group when as usual some one was criticizing this sister, the visiting teacher said, "But you don't know her. If you knew her as I have come to know her you would love her as I do." We need more such loyalties. In another district was a woman who because of educational advantages and wealth was considered proud and unapproachable. The visiting teacher assigned to this home said, "How can I visit her? How can I talk with her about the Message?" But after a few visits, after sitting and talking about the Message, the teacher said, "I have found that she is one of the most humble women I know." We need more such interpreting of one to another. In our affairs of everyday life, how many of us get an opportunity to talk to another regarding the things we feel deepest about? We are so busy with making a living and with the mechanics of living that most of our conversation is about these surface things of life. But all of us have longings and ideals which if not expressed are more or less smothered. Even in our Church meetings we are passive. Our ideas are enlarged and intensified as we bring them in contact with those of others. Expressed, they became a part of us. The visiting teachers come to our homes each month. They come to talk with us fora few moments about spiritual things. They are sisters of like ideals even though they may not have had the same experiences. We have an opportunity for self-expression and growth in talking with them. The last night which Jesus spent with His disciples before His betrayal He prayed for them, "Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are.. "Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word: "That they all may be one, as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us: that the world may believe that thou hast sent me."—John 17:11; 20: 21. This prayer is for us today. If we are to have the unity which Jesus prayed that we might have, if we are to build the brotherhood which He wishes His church to have, it must be based on more than cooperation in work, more than general in- _terest in people, or on general love for mankind. It must be built on real, personal friendship based on understanding and appreciation. To achieve such a unity is the real challenge of the Church today, the achievement of which will bear our testimony to the world that Jesus is 756 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the Christ and His gospel is the practical way of life. The Relief Society visiting teacher has a wonderful opportunity for service in helping to bring this understanding and appreciation. THE MESSAGES AND THEIR USE By Leda T. Jensen ONE very definite part of the mision of the visiting teacher today is to carry the Gospel by precept and example into the homes of our people. The name "visiting teacher" implies that we do something about teaching, about stimulating those whom we visit to better thoughts and ultimately to better ways of life. The "Messages to the Home" have been prepared for this special reason, to provide a definite thought which would stimulate profitable discussion during the visit of the teacher in the home. The Messages are of a spititual nature and are correlated with the theology lessons. The titles of the subjects for this season are found in the June, 19309, issue of the Relief Society Magazine. The subjects selected contain the very essence of true religion. 'They are practical rules of conduct, which should be brought frequently to the minds of the women of the'Church. Religion is the most vital force in life to keep people living on a higher plane. The teaching program of the Church is very extensive, but there are many baptized members of the Church who do not avail themselves of any of the avenues of learning that are opened freely to them. Should not some effort be made to take the Gospel to them if they will not come and partake? Visiting teachers have access to many homes denied all others. 'The teaching in the homes will be informal, but the best results have often been found where individual teaching is possible. If the Messages are not being carried to the homes in the wards and are not being discussed in a creditable manner, renewed effort in the stakes is necessary. In order to establish a friendly relationship in the home, a prerequisite to successful teaching, and to know what approach to use to the lesson, it is necessary to know the families in the district. Visiting teachers should. Be interested in them, in their interests, and in what they are doing, so they will have a common ground on which to meet. One meets several types of women in visiting the homes. Each will have to be approached in a different way. What appeals to one type probably will not appeal to another. The faithful, the busy, the indifferent, the haughty person—each will have to be studied and wisely approached. Move slowly but persistently. Don't be too easily offended or think too much of being inconvenienced. Remember, "Ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve Him with all your heart, might, mind and strength." Make your preparation meeting held the first Tuesday of each month a teacher-training meeting. Don't use the time to embellish the material in the Magazine. There is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 757 sufficient material there for the length of discussion advisable in the home. Instead of devoting too much time to the what of the message, more time should be given to the use of it. How to present the topic, difficulties encountered and successful visits made would be of practical assistance to the teachers. Make the teachers' preparation meeting so interesting none can afford to miss it. Theology Department Annie Wells Cannon, Chairman PAUL THE APOSTLE TO THE GENTILES By Dr. Lowell L. Bennion HEN first asked to speak to you on the subject "Paul the Apostle to the Gentiles", I was very disappointed, because I did not feel authoritative in connection with the life of Paul; second, I thought of so many things that I would rather talk with the Relief Society group about than the missionary work of Paul. However, after some reflection I was very glad that such a topic had been assigned to me, for I found so much in the life of Paul that is closely related to the spirit of Relief Society work. I became aware of the difficult problem of selecting from many things one or two that we might discuss together. Of all the people in our Church, and I say it without reservation, I believe the Relief Society sisters are most whole-heartedly devoted to the service of the Master, Jesus Christ. I think that Relief Society sisters are preparing themselves intelligently through a fine program to be able and worthy messengers of the Master. Where in the world will you go to find a life and soul devoted more whole-heartedly first, last and always to Jesus Christ, greater love in the service of Jesus Christ, than that of the Apostle Paul? Where will you go to find a person better prepared to fulfil his mission as a disciple of the Lord, than was Paul? Paul was a Jew; yes, a member of the strictest sect of the Jews — a Pharisee. He was schooled in the law of Moses. Yet, Paul was more than a Jew; he had more than a Jewish background. Paul was also a Roman; he had the rights of Roman citizenship; he had the Roman view of an eternal empire; he had the Roman concept of a universal kingdom. More than that, Paul was reared in Tarsus, in a great gentile city of Greek learning; therefore, Paul took into the ministry of Christ an understanding of the Gentiles. In Paul, we have this great Hebrew faith, moral courage and earnestness coupled with his vision of the work of God and an understanding of the people to whom he went to give his message. We could well take some time this morning talking about Paul as a teacher. Let me illustrate with one example, You recall the time that 758 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Paul was at Athens; Paul, a man engrossed in the Jewish faith, who had faith in the Jewish God, a personal, living God, trying to teach pagans who had no such concept of God; trying to teach people who believed in many gods, or in abstract definitions of God; trying to reveal to them the true and living God. How was he to do it? He might have simply explained the Jewish God to them. He might have been so engrossed in his own understanding that he would forget the position of the people to whom he spoke; but very wisely and cleverly Paul spoke to his people on the level of experience and understanding at which he found them. May I quote a few verses, to my mind among the most beautiful in Scripture: "Then Paul stood in the midst of Mars' hill, and said, Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are too superstitious. "For as I passed by, and beheld your devotions, I found an altar with this" inscription, To the Unknown God. Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you. "God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands; "Neither is worshipped with men's hands, as though he needed any thing, seeing he giveth to all life, and breath, and all things; "And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times appointed, and the bounds of their habitation; "That they should seck the Lord, if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not far from every one of us: "For in him we live, and move, and have our being; as certain also of your own poets have said, For we are also his offspring. ''Forasmuch then as we are the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Godhead is like unto gold, or silver, or stone, graven by art and man's device," —Acts 17:22-29. He did not offend the Athenians in that statement, he talked about their unknown God and made them understand the unknown God as a knowable God, a living God. We might well spend our time this morning talking about Paul's great work as a missionary to the Gentiles. Paul's task was not merely to convert the Gentile world, he had also to convert his fellow disciples to some aspects of the mission of Jesus. Peter and the other disciples who lived in Palestine, and had lived there all their lives, found it ~ difficult to enlarge their vision greatly beyond the scope of the Jewish religion. In the beginning, it seems, they wished to make converts to Christianity first become Jews. In other words, Christianity was to be a Jewish sect. Christianity was to those disciples in Jerusalem, to many of them it seems, nothing more than Judaism plus the resurrection of Christ. To Paul, it was entirely new—a new religion, a new and universal church that included Judaism but was much more. Paul told Peter and the other disciples in Jerusalem that the Gentiles need not become Jews in order to become Christians. Had Paul not had that vision and understanding it is doubtful if Christianity would have become the great universal religion that it did become. I know the Lord may have found other ways, but the fact is, He found it through Paul. We should be grateful to Paul for his great understanding of Christianity. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 759 I WOULD like to spend the rest of the time this morning, not in talking about Paul as a great teacher and not in speaking of him as a missionary to the Gentiles, but in talking about Paul, the apostle to the Gentiles, and his meaning in our lives today and to our work as messengers and disciples of Jesus Christ. In the mission field we teach our converts the first principles of the Gospel. We will not baptize anyone unless he exercises faith and repents of those things which are not in harmony with the Gospel, unless he is willing to be baptized and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. I think that we, as members and workers in the Church often forget that these pre-requisites to entrance to the Church are not merely for the investigator. Faith, repentance, baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost are not just things which precede one's entrance into the Church of Christ; faith, repentance, baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost are the very foundation of our lives as Latter-day Saints. These four principles or ordinances of the Gospel are not dead events in our remote past. Most of us were baptized at the age of eight, and since that time baptism has not always meant a great deal to us. Faith and repentance we think of as preceding baptism, so they sometimes almost vanish from the picture of adulthood. Paul has brought home to me the fact that faith, repentance, baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost, each one of them, can continue as living principles throughout our lives; they receive increased meaning and significance as we grow older. I am going to illustrate the meaning that Paul put into these first principles of the Gospel. Is faith the first principle of the Gospel? Paul had faith before he was baptized into the church, before he had his vision on the road to Damascus. He had faith in the law of Moses, in the words of the prophets; he had faith even that the thing he was doing in persecuting the Christians was the will of God. The first principle of the Gospel is not merely faith. As our fourth Article of Faith states: "We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are: first, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ;" if any great teacher of religion or any prophet has brought home to us the fact that the first principle of the Gospel is faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, it is certainly Paul. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ became to him something quite different from the faith which he had before. Previously Paul had tried to obey the law of Moses; he had struggled with his consciousness of sin. He had come to realize that no one can completely fulfil the Law, and especially that intricate law of Moses; but when he caught the spirit of Christ he became a new creaiure, he became free from sin, he rose above law. Paul's faith became a glorified faith in Christ. He said this of his relationship to Jesus: "For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, "Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord."—-Romans 8:38-39. We need faith today—whether we 760 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be eight years of age, twenty, thirty, forty or fifty—faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, faith in everything that Jesus Christ stands for in this world of ours. We need to use faith in the principles of love, mercy, forgiveness, integrity and unselfishness. Your very work as Relief Society workers is to exercise faith in these basic principles which we associate with the life of Christ. Although we associate faith with Paul, I think he reveals to us also the meaning of repentance in a very complete way. The first step in repentance, I believe, is not a feeling of remorse and regret, and I give you Paul's life as an example of the beginning of repentance. On the way to Damascus, seeking to get permission to persecute Christians, Paul had a vision. He saw a light and heard a voice which said: "Saul, Saul, why persecutcst thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest." That was the beginning of Paul's repentance. He saw a light, he got a new conception of truth and right, and in the light of that new truth his way of living seemed wrong, and Paul repented. The first step in repentance, I believe, is a new conception of truth and right — increased knowledge. The only people who have no need of repentance are those who cease to learn, who cease to enlarge their understanding of what the gospel of Jesus Christ means. As teachers, we do not get people to repent by telling them to repent. I believe that people will repent when we show them a' better way of life, a greater truth, in the light of which they will be ashamed of their own way of living as Paul was ashamed of his. Not only did Paul reveal this first important step in repentance but also the completion of it, for the last step in repentance is to right the wrong that one has done— to substitute right living for wrong living, to overcome evil with good. Where do we have a better record of a man who devoted the rest of his life, and gave his life, to make good the wrong he had done against the works of Jesus Christ? I am sure that Stephen who had been stoned with the consent of Paul was not stoned in vain, because of the repentance that Paul wrought. It may seem more difficult to think of baptism, the third principle of our Gospel, as a living principle such as that of repentance, but Paul reveals to us the meaning of baptism in a way that should make it live on in our everyday lives. In the very beginning, after he had had this vision on the road to Damascus, Paul humbled himself and went to one Ananias, a disciple of the Lord, and was baptized. We might think that Paul, having received a vision, haying been called of God as an apostle, would think that it would be unnecessary to humble himself in the waters of baptism, but the record says that he went and was baptized. It is Paul again who portrays to us the meaning of baptism when he compares it with the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. We enter the waters of baptism as the old creature, the sinful but repentant creature, and come up washed and clean, a new creature in Jesus Christ. Not only is baptism a means of entering the Church and a way of gaining remission of sins, but baptism RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 761 is also a covenant. I am going to step ahead into modern revelation and read from the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 20, verse 37: "And again, by way of commandment to the church concerning the manner of baptism—All those who humble themselves before God, and desire to be baptized, and come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before the church that they have truly repented of all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve him to the end, and truly manifest by their works that they have received of the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins, shall be received by baptism into his church." It is a pledge to accept Christ and be His disciple. Every Sunday we have the privilege of renewing that covenant in our Church services. Our sacramental prayer reveals the meaning of the sacrament as a renewal of the baptismal covenant. In that prayer it is written: "That they may eat in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O God, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember him and keep his commandments which he has given them; that they may always have his Spirit to be with thein." Every Sunday, as we partake of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, if we will meditate upon the life of the Master, evaluate our own living in the light of His character and love, and have a desire to serve Him, I know that baptism will continue asa living principle of our lives. After the Lord had said to Paul. "Tam Jesus whom thou persecutest," He continues: "But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of these things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee; "Delivering thee from the people, and from the Gentiles, unto whom now I send thee, "To open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. "Whereupon, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision." Over the whole known world Paul declared this covenant that he himself had made with Christ, and his testimony was so strong that king Agrippa said unto Paul: "Almost thou persuadest me to be a Chistian, "And Paul said, I would to God, that not only thou, but also all that hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am, except these bonds." This illustrates Paul's loyalty to the baptismal covenant. On several occasions, Paul said he was unworthy to be a disciple of Jesus Christ; on other occasions, he said he had done more work than all the rest put together, which shows his great spirit of humility and yet his determination to not only repent but be loyal to the covenant he had made with his Lord. In relation to the fourth principle of the Gospel, the gift of the Holy Ghost, I think Paul reveals to us the great two-fold mission of the Holy Ghost. First of all as a witness that God lives and Jesus Christ is indeed His Son, he writes: "But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man. "For I neither received if of man nei ther was I taught it but by the revelation of Jesus Christ."——-Gal. 1:11-12. "Wherefore I give you to understand, 762 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed: and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost."—I Cor. 12:3. Paul certainly received his knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ through the revelations of the Holy Ghost. Paul certainly had complete conviction, absolute assurance that Jesus was indeed the Lord, the Son of God. No only that, but Paul wrote intimately about the gifts of the Holy Spirit. In conclusion, I am going to read to you the very familiar chapter in I Corinthians in which Paul talks about the gifts of the Holy Ghost: "Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. "And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all know}- edge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. "And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. "Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, and is not puffed up, "Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil; "Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; "Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. "Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. "For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. "But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. "When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things. "For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part but then shall I know even as I am known. "And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity."—-I Cor. 13. Sisters, may we exercise faith in the Lord Jesus Christ such as Paul exercised. May we recognize repentance as a living, continuing, growing principle of our lives. May we be true to the covenant that we made with Christ and our Father in Heaven through baptism, and may we, I pray God, enjoy the assurance enjoyed by Paul through the power of the Holy Ghost, that Jesus Christ is indeed the Son of God. Growing out of that assurance, may we pursue the life of love and service which Paul pursued. THE ESTABLISHMENT OF TESTIMONY Edith P. Backman Former President South African Mission Relief Society HE established testimonies of those dear, faithful, pioneer women, numbering eighteen, who were the charter members of our Relief Society, have been handed down to us as a real inspiration, a true pattern to follow, and a challenge to carry on the great work which they began. The love, devotion, loyalty and untiring service shown by the wonderful leaders and members up to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 763 the present time is proof of their testimonies of the divinity of this work, and their testimonies have led them to great accomplishments. A testimony that God lives, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God is the most valuable possession one can have. Our testimony may be more firmly established by attending meetings, partaking of the sacrament and hearing the testimonies of others. We are told to meet together often in His name. Even though the number may be few. His spirit may be there also. Think of the blessings in store for those who are honest with God in paying tithes and offerings. What a wonderful thing if we, as mothers, could instill the beauty of that principle into the hearts of our children. Thousands of testimonies which we have heard are proof that the faithful tithe payer is blessed an hundredfold. A famed American scientist, after quietly studying and living among the Mormons for. Three summer vacations, said he thought the Relief Society was the premier auxiliary organization in the Church because of its efficiency and effectiveness and the opportunity it offers its members to be of service. Certainly we should take advantage of the opportunity it gives us for development and growth. We should give our best to the work we have been called to do. Magnify it no matter how humble it may be; the Lord will give us more power to achieve in the various fields of our choice only when we have earnestly and diligently used the power we already have. He never calls on us to hold a position that He does not give us strength to carry on if we are faithful. Being of service is the greatest means of bringing joy, happiness, satisfaction and contentment. "When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are in the service of your God." For more than one hundred years, our Church has been sending missionaries into the field to preach the Gospel—the most wonderful missionary system in the world. Missionaries know, as Joseph Smith knew when he started the missionary system, that when the Holy Spirit bears testimony to the inmost soul of man, there is no danger of his being led away by other systems of adverse doctrine. Such a testimony! Four years ago last November we were called to go fifteen thousand miles away to preside over the South African Mission. After making it a matter of prayer, my husband said, "I am going to tell President Grant we will go." We were given blessings and promised health, happiness and success, and that we would return home and find our loved ones well and happy. I thank my Heavenly Father and the Presidency of the Church for giving us the opportunity of going with our children into the mission field to partake of the heavenly spirit existing there. I know this is the true work of God, and nothing else in life matters. It is the only source of true joy and happiness. May our Heavenly Father help us all to appreciate every opportunity given us to be of service to Him, and may we live lives that will be worthy of His wonderful blessings.
Social Service Department Jennie B. Knight, Chairman
SOCIAL SERVICE GOES TO WORK By Rae B. Barker
LIFE, as we know it, is group life. No one is independent of others. The social concept is the group concept. Social service then is service in the interest of the group. Growing out of Relief Society social-consciousness have come some successful, vital community projects which have carried our social service work beyond the class room into practical service projects. In 1934 in a ward social service class an idea took root. Something must be done with children's leisure time. A neighborhood library was a suggested remedy—a simple request it seemed, but actually so complex its realization involved the Parent-Teacher Association, the school board, public library and the city recreation department. The project was engineered by the local Parent-Teacher Association president in conjunction with the Relief Society representative. Together they were a splendid combination of "Noticer", "Specification Writer" and "Finisher"; they could see what needed to be done, how it could be done, and they earnestly set out to do it. They moved carefully, gaining one concession at a time. They convinced all supporting groups that the thing could be done. Contributions ranged from dimes to ten-dollar bills, building space and books (five hundred in one lot) to a budgeted appropriation for a librarian's salary. When in 1936 it was finally accomplished (it now has four successful summers and service to five school districts to its credit), those who had conceived the idea and set it in motion wisely let the open recognition go to the "Finishers". Another remote Relief Society group, a stake board, also did some "noticing" and "finishing" on even a larger scale with a different phase of group service. They recognized a distinct need for more women with nursing experience and for a maternity hospital. From April, 1937, to January, 1939, persistent, intelligent leadership played a winning game. Rebuff and discouragement were turned into success. Stake and county interest was built up until sufficient material support for nursing service and scientific equipment for a maternity delivery room was secured. This was matched with housing facilities and other furnishings by the Relief Society stake board, supplemented by ward Relief Societies and one generous brother. Still in its first year, this six-bed hospital is a source of great satisfaction to the thirty-five mothers already served, to other mothers registered for care in the months ahead, and certainly to those who were courageous enough to start and to finish so fine a social service project.
Family Relations Department Kate M. Barker, Chairman
PURPOSE AND CONDUCT OF COURSE IN "EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE" By Nellie O. Parker
THE course "Education For Family Life" was launched one year ago. While it has not been the entire success we wished it to be, there have been some very gratifying results. We feel that in many cases the aim of the course has not been clearly understood, and difficulties have arisen that need not have been; for example, the conflict with the social service lesson and its class leader. It was never intended that this course conflict with or detract from the social service lesson. The Relief Society program has always been planned to meet the needs and interests of the women and has been expanded to embrace new things as progress in a changing world has demanded. We find that we are not reaching all eligible Latter-day Saint women through our regular courses of study. We are not getting all of our young mothers, many of whom are high school and college graduates. Many of these young women are joining clubs and study groups to the exclusion of Relief Society. To meet this situation, the very popular subject of "Education For Family Life" was chosen as the new course of study. The class procedure was so planned as to give as many opportunities as possible for personal participation and development of leadership ability. Family relations is a very vital and timely subject. Current books and magazines abound with excellent thoughts and discussions concerning it. It is an important subject for everyone, especially parents. It assists them in aiding the family to function as it should, to build character and develop responsible citizens, to make better and happier homes and communities, and to build a true democracy. It is recommended that the course be held on the fourth Tuesday of each month and that it run simultaneously with the social service lesson but not draw from the social service class. It is the consensus of the General Board that if it is impossible to hold the class at this time because of the inconvenience to mothers with young children, another hour be chosen that will allow these women the privilege of attending. The class is not to be held on any of the other Tuesdays; we suggest that four P. M. on the fourth Tuesday may permit mothers to secure older children, home from school, to care for the babies. An evening hour, or Sunday evening after church, may be an advantageous time. It would be convenient for fathers to attend if the classes were held in the evening. An officer of Relief Society should meet with the class; this should not be too great a burden as the class meets but once each month. The class is to be recruited mainly from new women. Seek out and invite all women who should be inter-
766 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ested in the course and who would enjoy taking an active part either as class leader or giving topics and otherwise participating in the discussion. The class should be a means of adding new members to the Relief Society organization. In conformity with our aim, we suggest that the class be allowed as much opportunity for personal initiative and activity as possible within Relief Society regulations and standards. Use your best judgment in guiding the course. It is to be under the supervision of the counselor in charge of education. It is recommended that a committee of three be chosen, with one member as chairman, to serve as program committee, to manage programs and to arrange for those taking part each month. If there is difficulty in securing a different class leader for each lesson, members of the program committee themselves may take turns being class leader, giving other members assignments and allowing considerable time for discussing and solving the family relationship problems. There should be a department in Union meeting to instruct and guide leaders in planning, organizing, and presenting the lesson material. There should be open sessions occasionally to which husbands are invited and opportunity given them to participate in the discussion.
HINTS AND AIDS FOR TEACHING FAMILY RELATIONS By Caroline M. Hendricks
THIS morning I shall discuss three points with regard to the Family Relations class: First, what we are hoping to do—our aim in this department; second, some of the fundamental characteristics of a leader in Family Relations; third, the material in the lessons. In teaching Family Relations, please do not hope to tell people how they can be happy. There is no recipe for happy family life, there is no panacea; all we can hope to do is to help each other to see our problems and analyze them with a degree of intelligent understanding. Family relations is one of the most difficult subjects to teach; yet, it is one of the most satisfactory subjects. Do not attempt to use the number of members in your class as a criterion of your success. If during the entire year you can help one family, you are justified in feeling that your time and efforts have been very well spent. It is worth while for parents to come together and discuss their problems if they do nothing more than learn that their family is not unique in its problems. As long as we have family life, we will have problems to solve, and fundamentally these problems are the same. They differ in degree. One family may have a problem that is more serious than that of someone else in one respect, but the other person will have another problem that seems to balance it. We all have problems, and we always will have problems; what we are attempting to do is to
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 767
help people get an intelligent understanding of family relationships so that they will be able to solve their problems more satisfactorily. You have already heard that class discussion is the most desirable method of handling this subject matter. Encourage members to talk over their problems, but never let them feel that you realize they are talking about their own family problems, even if you know they are. Make discussion absolutely impersonal. You must be careful in the example cases discussed not to betray the confidence of people who probably have come to you to talk over their problems. Be sincere in your work, have faith in family life. Feel in your hearts that the greatest happiness in this world comes from human relationships and that the most important human relationships are those within the family group. Help your class members to realize that the greatest source of happiness and satisfaction in this life comes from satisfactory family relationships. Be vitally interested in your subject. Are you interested in family life? Are you interested in gaining information about it—the best information available? I would suggest that during the winter at least two good books dealing with the family be read. Do not depend entirely upon the material contained in the lesson. Such an important subject as Family Relations requires more information than can possibly be given in the space devoted to these lessons in the Magazine. This material will serve, I hope, to stimulate you; then, you must do research work. If you can make the members of your class feel that you have a fund of information back of what you are saying, it will inspire confidence in you and add greatly to your success. It is essential that any person who serves in the capacity of a leader in family life inspires confidence in people. E. R. Groves' book The American Family, is worthy of your consideration. Groves says that home is not a place, it is a habit of life, and some people have this habit, of course, more fully than do others. What we call "domesticity" is a habit that has come forth from associations in our former family experience. If we have this habit of home, this habit of domesticity, we have it as a result of our earlier life. Domestic experience is not attained by the power of the will but it must come through experience and growth. Help these young mothers, these young married people, to realize that we all have problems when we start out, and that living together in the family is simply an experience; emphasize the fact that there can be no happiness without growth and development. Help them to appreciate the seriousness of domestic failure; it influences throughout life every person who is a part of that family group. I cannot tell you where you can find well written material on the first lesson, which deals with the family council, but I do know of many families who have practiced the family council plan, and it has been their salvation. I hope you will discuss the importance of coming together in family life and its value in binding people together within the family. Use your own ideas and your own initiative and
768 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
work them into the ideas contained in the outlined lessons. The second lesson deals with the handling of family finances. Stress the point that whatever plan the family decides upon must be agreeable to both mates. There must be agreement as to the handling of family finances. I wish to stress again the importance of faith in family life as the foundation of success in your work. Our major aim is to make the home a refuge, a place of peace and comfort where every individual has security, love and affection; a place where those who are weary and tired after the day's work will find peace and rest. "It is not life that matters," says Hornell Hart, "it is the courage you bring to it." There is no problem that is too difficult for the individual if that individual has the necessary courage with which to meet that problem. This is the message we have for our young people who are beginning to found their homes during this very difficult period of time.
Officers Meeting
ADDRESS By William E. Ryberg Member of Church Welfare Committee
I SINCERELY appreciate the honor of representing the Church Welfare Committee at this meeting. As long as I can remember, one of the most impressive things in my life, and one from which I received great inspiration, was the work of Relief Society as expressed in my own mother. I well remember that through the most depressing periods of our early life a consoling thing which seemed to hold our family together was the great confidence and the firm testimony of my mother in the truth of the church to which we belonged, and I am confident this testimony was largely influenced by her activities in Relief Society. When my mother approached her eightieth birthday, she was still in the service of Relief Society, still making her calls in the district allotted to her. I recognize that today I am speaking to a group of sisters to whom Church Welfare is not at all new. The fundamental principles of the Relief Society, as I understand them, are exactly the ideals which Church Welfare is attempting to put into actual practice. If there is anything new to Church Welfare, which the Relief Society does not understand, it can only be that their service has been augmented by the service of certain brethren who have been called to assist in solving the economic problems and the distress of those who are unfortunate in a period of time when conditions are too serious for any one unit of the Church to handle alone.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 769
Sister Robison has asked what the Relief Society can do, as a body, to further the plans of the Church Welfare Program. I am thoroughly convinced that without the assistance of Relief Society, the Church Welfare Program cannot be successfully consummated. There is no organization in the Church which has the ability and which has had the experience in relief work that the Relief Society has had. The Relief Society does not only hold and maintain the admiration, respect, love and esteem of members of the Church, but throughout the world the influence of this organization is known. Therefore, there is no question in my mind but that the ultimate success of the Church Welfare Program will be measured in terms of the amount of activity into which the leaders of the Church bring the Relief Society. A very important factor in the success of the Program, and one, I believe, that lies directly within the hands of the members of the Relief Society, is the influence of women. If we were to analyze the underlying reasons for the success of men who have contributed to the world in the fields of science, literature, social service, or any phase of public life, we would find somewhere the inspiration of a splendid woman. In the totalitarian or dictatorship countries, the influence of womanhood is not present, while in the democracies, the place of women in the affairs of the state is almost equal to that of men. Men should recognize the influence for good exerted by women. I believe the Relief Society can influence the brethren to fulfill their obligations as members of the Priesthood. There are many of us who are willing to accept high positions of honor and responsibility in the Church without accepting the actual work and effort which go with these honors. A man who accepts a position of responsibility and honor and who does not fulfill the obligations of that honor is not only unfaithful to the Church but is unfaithful to that woman whom he admires most and also to himself. One of our first considerations should be the temporal welfare of our less fortunate brethren. I do not think it is quite consistent for our Church to pose as the spiritual savior of mankind if it cannot, here in this world, help in the temporal salvation of the less fortunate. Remember, sisters, there is no other place in all the world which is as blessed as is our own country. We should be grateful that we live in a country which is so blessed. The majority of Church members are not more than three generations away from the war-torn European countries, and the Gospel message is the thing that brought our grandparents here. Is it then too much that you sisters use your influence to help the brethren appreciate the blessings and recognize the obligations which are theirs as members of this Church? Before I close, I want to answer two other questions that were propounded to me: What can the Relief Society do in furnishing supplies from the efforts of their own auxiliary organization for the Church Welfare Program, and how may credits be received? In the first instance, the Relief Society presidency of any ward should contact the bishop and dis-
770 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
cuss with him first of all what articles are required in that particular ward, or what that particular ward might profitably contribute to the stake, and from the stake to the region. If the Relief Society in that ward has surplus commodities of any type, which are also surplus in the stake, there is no reason why these cannot be contributed to the region. There is no reason why that particular Relief Society cannot receive credit for that contribution, and there is no reason why they should not draw from the region other needed articles up to the amount of the credit. The other question is: How can Relief Society develop new projects in their own local ward units, and from what source can the money be obtained? The Relief Society stake president knows, or should know, the things which are surplus in the region, and the things which the region is in need of. In the event a program is developed in a stake or ward to supply these shortages, the funds naturally come from the bishop. The bishop can in turn take his funds from the fast offerings. In the event the fast offerings in his ward are not sufficient for this purpose, he has the right to request funds from the stake fast offerings. In the event the fast offerings from the stake are not sufficient, he has the right to request funds from the region. I think it is purely within the right of the president of a local unit to inform her bishop if she knows of any worthy members of the Church within her ward who are suffering. I think if the Bishop does not respond after the information is given to him, she should report the condition to her stake president. If it is not then corrected, the stake president should report it to a higher source. It is not human, it is inhuman, to allow people to suffer, and I think it is definitely the responsibility of the Relief Society to see that no such conditions occur. The following statement was made to me at the close of a certain meeting: "Brother Ryberg, I know that I can get assistance from the ward if I only dared ask, but I would rather be put against a wall and shot than to go through the humiliation that I would have to go through in order to get that assistance. My business would immediately become the business of the entire ward." That is tragic, sisters, and I have enough confidence in the rank and file of the Relief Society to believe that such situations exist only in a minority of cases. When a member of the Church comes to any person with authority in the Church and confesses the problems which are bearing him down, the information given is confidential, and the person who gives it has the right to expect that it will be kept in strictest confidence. The question has been asked: What part does the Relief Society play with reference to the Priesthood? Every Friday morning the General Committee meets with the First Presidency, a representative of the Presiding Bishopric, a representative of the Council of the Twelve, a representative of the First Council of Seventy, and a representative of the General Board of Relief Society. No step is taken in the Church Welfare Program, as related to the Relief
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 771
Society, without the General Board first being consulted. Now that should hold true throughout the entire Program. There is a definite place for the Relief Society in the ward set-up, in the stake set-up, and in the regional set-up. If the First Presidency, the Presiding Bishopric, the Council of the Twelve, the First Council of Seventy and the General Committee feel that the advice and counsel of the sisters of the General Board is necessary, surely the ward units and stake units should recognize that fact in their deliberations. If there is any place in a ward, stake or region in the Church where this is being overlooked, I am of the opinion that the Church Welfare Program is not particularly successful. In the event this condition exists in your stake or ward, you sisters holding responsible positions should report it to your stake president, and failing there, to your general officers. When it is reported to them, I am sure they will report it at the council meeting on Friday morning. I am happy to have been with you this morning, and have attempted to explain some things which seem to have been in question.
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS By President Louise Y. Robison
WE are very happy to meet with you this morning under such favorable conditions, to discuss problems of common interest. New Books: I should like to call your attention to some new books which are of special interest to Latter-day Saints. Brother George D. Pyper has just published a volume entitled The Story of Our Hymns, which presents in his delightful style the stories of our Latter-day Saint hymns. Sister Janet Bingham Dee of the Primary General Board has published a valuable and beautifully illustrated book, A Voice From The Dust, which presents the story and doctrine contained in the Book of Mormon in a form easily read. This publication should result in a greater understanding of the Book of Mormon. We unhesitatingly recommend both books to you. The Relief Society Song Book will soon be ready. It will be a handy, loose-leaf style so that when open it will lie perfectly flat. The words and music are photographic, making it very easily read. We are striving to keep the price of the book as low as possible. The stakes will be notified as soon as the book is ready. Last year some very excellent novels were used in our Literature course. The Deseret Book Company still has a number of these books on hand, which can be purchased at a nominal price. We suggest them as very appropriate Christmas gifts. Pre-natal Care: There are still women in our Society who do not know where to obtain information on pre-natal care. Splendid material may be secured by writing to your state board of health. Stake presidents kindly notify the sisters. Child Health: We have a great
772 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
responsibility in safeguarding the health of our children. Children with weak bodies grow up greatly handicapped. In a school district within one hundred miles of Salt Lake City, an examination of 338 pre-school children revealed only 78 with teeth in normal condition— these, of course, were baby teeth. An examination of 476 sixth-grade children—an eleven-year-old group with permanent teeth—revealed only 60 with teeth in good condition. The other day I heard of a man who earns $180 per month. An examination of the teeth of his five children revealed that each child had more than five cavities. The proper care of children's teeth may well be a project for Relief Society. This does not mean we are to pay for the dental care of all children, but rather that we impress mothers with the importance of good teeth and stimulate them to make use of the opportunities available to have teeth examined and properly cared for. Of course, there are families in the Church who have difficulty in supplying the basic necessities of life for children, and for this reason teeth are neglected. In such cases, tide them over. Let them feel it is their responsibility as far as possible to carry the expense of corrective work, but arrange for them to pay a little down and meet the balance as they best can. Where families positively cannot meet the expense themselves and where the ward and stake are unable to do so, call on the General Board. This problem is of sufficient importance to attract community interest. I believe there are doctors, city and county commissioners, and other groups who would aid in this important welfare program. Children must not go through life handicapped because of the small amount of money necessary to insure good teeth. Relief Society Funds and The Ward Budget: The Presiding Bishopric have instituted ward budgets throughout the Church. The Relief Society heartily approves of the principle of the budget. The budget plan has been clearly set forth in the August, 1939, issue of Progress of the Church, published by the Presiding Bishopric and sent to all bishops. We suggest that Relief Society presidents ask the bishops to permit them to read this. Due to the nature of Relief Society work, it is deemed advisable that there be certain modifications in the application of the budget plan with regard to Relief Society funds. The charity fund is not included in the budget. This fund is created from collections received by the visiting teachers and is used only for the purpose indicated by its name. Membership dues are not included; we believe that when women make the effort to pay their own annual dues they appreciate their membership more. The general fund, which is a contingent or operating fund of the Organization, has in the past been created by the industry of the women. It has been used for the purchase of textbooks, record books and miscellaneous things. Now, in wards operating on the budget plan, the general fund may be allowed Relief Society from the ward budget, just as other auxiliaries receive their operating fund. To determine the amount necessary, we recommend
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 773
that expenses incurred during the past three years be averaged and the amount of this average be requested of the bishop when the ward budget is set up. Do not draw on the bishopric for any more than is absolutely necessary. If you have available funds, use these before drawing on the ward budget. These rulings may change in the future, but for the present this is our plan. Even though a ward is on a budget, we can see no reason why Relief Society should not hold a bazaar to display useful handmade articles and to encourage people to make beautiful things. We cannot see any possible objection to the sale of these articles, but there should be no admission fee charged. We trust Relief Society will do everything within its power to aid the bishop in making the budget plan succeed. Relief Society Singing Mothers: The question has been asked whether the Relief Society Singing Mothers from all over the Church will again be invited to sing at April Conference, 1940. The plan now is to concentrate efforts on a glorious centennial in 1942. So we ask the Singing Mothers to perfect themselves and sing in the stakes and wards, but the Augmented Chorus will not be assembled again until 1942. We hope that by next April we will be prepared to announce the details of the program for our hundredth anniversary. Family Relations: Sound family relationships are of vital importance. The course "Education for Family Life" has been introduced into the Relief Society program to help young mothers better understand and meet the problems of family life. Magazine Drive: We are delighted with the work of our Magazine representatives. Most of the stakes are now engaged in the Drive and excellent results are being obtained. Do not feel that people are too poor to subscribe; those who have the least money are in many cases our most faithful subscribers. Class Leaders: Before calling any person to a position in Relief Society, in either ward or stake capacity, advise her of the full requirements of the position. Attendance of class leaders at Union meeting is almost a necessity. There may occasionally be a woman who is able to render fine service to Relief Society and thus tie herself to the Church, yet, because of being in school or at business, is unable to attend Union meeting. Such cases, however, are rare. Before asking women to accept positions, ask them if they have time to attend Union meeting. Church Beautification: Church beautification, and that also includes home beautification, can be carried out better with the women interested than in any other way. Encourage the sisters to plant gardens, shrubs and trees. A fine practice is to plant a tree in honor of a birthday or some other important event. I heard an Idaho man say that the thing which made him want to go back to his home in the East was a great big oak tree that had been planted in his honor when he was born. That tree tied him to the East even more than did the people. There is sentiment in tree planting. Encourage the sisters to see that ward chapels are kept clean, that
774 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
children are taught not to throw papers and other things about meeting house grounds. Nutrition: The following question has been asked: "Is the nutrition class, held on Work and Business day, optional with the wards?" We refer you to the following ruling in the May, 1938, issue of the Relief Society Magazine, page 334: "The General Board suggests that the use of this material (nutrition) be optional in the wards and may be used in connection with the traditional activities of the day (work and business)." However, need should determine the advisability of having the course. If there is one woman in your ward who needs help, there is no question but that the class should be held. Raising Funds For New Chapels: Help the bishops all you can, but it is not the ward Relief Society president's responsibility to raise funds for new chapels. Mormon Handicraft: Mormon Handicraft sales have increased at least one-third this year. We appreciate the cooperation of the local sisters as well as the fine support of the advisory committee. Articles received have been of higher standard —fewer have been returned. We still need inexpensive articles but well made and attractive. We are still overstocked with some articles, so please write to us before the women go to the expense of making expensive things, such as bedspreads, and ascertain whether or not there is apt to be a sale for these articles. Membership dues are from January to January and are $1 a year for the ward or for an individual membership of anyone not a member of the Relief Society. Please check up and see if any of your women are depending upon the ward to take a membership. Literature Course: Due to present international trouble, it has been deemed advisable to change the third book in the Literature course. A new book will be substituted for the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. While the Four Horsemen is a great novel, presenting a vivid picture of the horrors of war, we believe that a more cheerful book should be used. Refreshments on Work and Business Day: We have found that some wards are going rather to the extreme in serving refreshments on Work and Business day. Serve light refreshments occasionally; they make for sociability, and Work and Business day is the social day in Relief Society, but do not make this a burden. Visiting Teachers: The following new ruling has been made: When a reorganization of Relief Society takes place in the ward, all visiting teachers are to be released when the president is released. In many wards the great number of inactive visiting teachers has become a burden. In reorganizing the visiting teachers, do not overlook any sister who has rendered good service. Be prayerful about making your new selections. In some way, try to honor those who have given faithful service over a long period of years. The question has been asked: Should non-members of the Church serve as visiting teachers? Generally speaking, we say no. There is, of course, an occasional exception. For example, in the mission field where
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 775
they are greatly handicapped for workers, we may find a woman who is genuinely converted but for some good reason has not yet joined the Church. This sister might reasonably be used. But in our wards, let us use Latter-day Saint women who understand the principles of the Gospel to bear the Relief Society message to the homes. We request that visiting teachers be not asked to sell books or tickets for any organization or cause, including Relief Society. We do not want them to act as Magazine agents when making their regular visits. We also request that they be not used as an advertising medium for any cause, unless it be some special Relief Society activity. The teachers may carry such an announcement, but do not have them go as solicitors. Visiting teachers are to go with a spiritual message for the purpose of uplifting the family.
First General Session
RELIEF SOCIETY WELFARE WORK By Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
IT is interesting as well as inspirational for us to look back and recount the many achievements of Relief Society women of the past in the field of human welfare, and we love to do this. But it is equally interesting as well as gratifying to observe the fine work being done by Relief Society women of today in this same field. — The General Board appreciates your interest in the Church Welfare Program with which we are cooperating and to which we are devoted, and we commend you dear sisters for your efforts in this great undertaking—for the hours and days you have given to the cause. We appreciate also your ready attention to cases of need in your own wards. In all of our welfare work I am sure we are keeping in mind our ideal of helping people to help themselves and of trying to provide opportunity for them to do this. We appreciate your work in the interest of health and maternity welfare; in the general and special clinics you are aiding, and in the follow-up work you are doing in connection with them. We know that through your faithful efforts many children have been able to enter school this fall physically fit. But we are wondering if all the defects discovered were looked after or corrected. We are wondering if there are children in your communities who still have diseased tonsils and bad teeth, eyes that need glasses, ears that need attention, with apparently no one able to do anything about it. And what about malnutrition? We are hoping that our special nutrition work for this year will bear good fruit in this direction. We are mindful of the fact that last year you spent 33,000 days in volunteer nursing of the sick, and that you made 208,000 comforting and helpful visits to the sick, home-
776 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
bound and handicapped. Also, that the visiting teachers made over one million friendly family visits. We appreciate your interest and activity in the campaign of the Church for the non-use of liquor and tobacco and thus for the protection of our children from these devastating poisons. Education and prevention in this matter, as you know, are especially important. The first cigarette is, for the youth, the easiest to refuse; the first drink, the easiest to pass up. When once a young person becomes a cigarette addict, an alcoholic or a drug addict, you who have had experience in case work know that you have a real problem and a heartbreaking situation. It is gratifying to know that we are united in our stand for total abstinence in these things. In Utah, California and probably in many other states, the schools have a definite program for teaching the effects of alcohol, tobacco and other narcotic drugs. Let us find out what these programs are and support them. Let us ask what each of our schools is doing in this respect. Dr. Skidmore, State Superintendent of Public Instruction in Utah, says: "The responsibility of carrying on this particular program for the good of our young people rests largely with the school executives but can not be successful unless it has the backing of communities, churches, all public-spirited organizations and the best citizens of the State." I recently read a stimulating article by Charles Longacre, Secretary of the American Temperance Association, on the subject, "Who Has A Right To Drink?" Riding on a railroad train recently was a group of men discussing the futility of laws restricting the right to drink intoxicating liquor. The idea prevailed that all men have a right to drink, the same as the right to eat; that to attempt to regulate drinking is an interference with a man's personal liberties. The conversation was interrupted by a passenger who drew near the group and asked this question, "Do you believe that the engineer and the train crew that operate this train should enjoy the liberty to drink intoxicating beverages?" The unanimous reply was, "No". He then asked why these should be discriminated against and denied this right and this freedom. The verdict was that the law should require these men to be sober so as not to endanger the lives of passengers on the train. Then there was a question about air pilots, with the same conclusion. It was then computed that there are 60,000 railroad engineers in the United States, all of whom should not be allowed this freedom and right. It was also computed that besides the 60,000 railroad engineers, there are about 35,000,000 licensed automobile engineers who are entrusted with high-powered gasoline engines on the public highways, where there are no rails, no guards and no signals. The question was asked, "Is it not necessary that these latter should be required to be sober as well as the railroad engineers?" Again the answer was, "Yes". So we might go on, says the author, and ask about drunken pedestrians walking in front of the automobiles and causing accidents, and about the parents of in-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 777
nocent little children who dethrone their reason and impair their good judgment by the use of intoxicating liquor. Personal liberty surely cannot in justice infringe upon the rightful liberty and freedom of others. Even "wets" are agreed that the sale of adulterated foods that are injurious to health should be prohibited as well as that dangerous drugs and firearms should be restricted. The author then asks, "Who has a right to drink?" In the last paragraph of his article he sums up as follows: "Who has a right to drink? Do I as a prospective father or you as a prospective mother have a right to drink alcoholic beverages, or use cocaine or marihuana when science tells me that my offspring will have to suffer the blight and curse of both mental and physical defects for it?... No father has a right to come home staggering and jabbering and cursing and abusing his wife and children because of drink. No mother has a right to bring shame and disgrace and a handicap upon her offspring because of drink. No son or daughter has a right to bring reproach and dishonor and ingratitude upon an upright and respectable father and mother because of drink. No citizen has a right to make a pauper out of himself, to be supported by society because of drink. Any nation that debauches and corrupts its youth through the curse of drink destroys its own future and commits national suicide." WE appreciate your interest in homemaking and in the building up of stable family life. We are a family agency. We believe in the family. We have faith in the family. We feel that the most vital concern of society should be the cultivation and conservation of the family and its restoration and rehabilitation where necessary. In recent years the family has been the subject of much discussion and criticism. Critics representing the most radical group contend that the maintenance of family life is surely threatened. It is most heartening to learn, from a survey made recently at the University of Minnesota, of the fine ideals held by many young people today. A long questionnaire was sent out to 1600 Minnesota alumni, asking about the things they thought most important and most desirable. The first five choices of things the men most wanted were: A happy married life, financial success, security for old age, a comfortable standard of living, and making a good home. The first five things women most wanted were: A happy married life, a comfortable standard of living, making a good home, children they could be proud of, and travel. It will be noted that the first choice of both men and women was a happy married life, and the fifth choice of the men and the third of the women was "making a good home". This is surely encouraging in this day of easy divorce. We commend Relief Society women for their devotion to the Gospel and its teachings. In this day of world confusion, we are challenged as are all other Christian groups to preserve and maintain the ethical, moral and religious standards and ideals set up by the Master. Let us dedicate ourselves to these ideals. It is evident that there is 778 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE need to work not only for economic recovery and for health, but also for moral and spiritual recovery—for moral and spiritual rearmament. The guiding power of religion and spirituality is desperately needed in the world today. May this be our first interest is my earnest prayer. A ae Second General Session ADDRESS By Mrs. Vincent Hilles Ober President, National Federation of Music Clubs THE National Federation of Music Clubs is complimented in having a place on the program of the Relief Society Conference. We are proud, with you, of the Singing Mothers. The National Federation of Music Clubs is better and stronger because of the membership maintained in it by the Singing Mothers of the Relief Society. America's foundations were laid 332 years ago—quite recently in contrast to those of Europe, and along very different lines. In a country which has carried forward the greatest and the most successful experiment in democracy which the world has known to date, it is important to preserve our freedom of musical expression along with our freedom of speech and religion. The music of the United States should be a democratic music, and music should be used as a means of building and msuring the freedom of American institutions. Through music we can do much to integrate nationalities within our country, working toward the ideal of developing life so that it will include a pattern of peace, of brotherhood, of harmony and understanding, of sympathy, of nobleness with reference to humanity as our keynote. Music has a greater mission than to merely create a friendly reaction among individuals, or furnish entertainment; it can be a great influence for good in the world, because people who are engaged in cultural development have no time for evil planning. In these days of misunderstanding and friction, we pray for the peaceful influence of the gospel of music, that nations and neighbors may be interpreted to each other. Weare not a singing nation. We would be a more confident nation if we sang together. The organization which I represent, the National Federation of Music Clubs, has functioned for over forty-one years in making Ametica more musical. Our members—men and women, boys and gitls—in their club life have accomplished a record of which we are. Proud. We work with children, and last year we had over eight thousand participate in our contests. We support young artists, giving them engagements. We inspire the composer and recognize compositions of value. We create scholarship funds for the underprivileged, talented RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 779 child. In 47 countries, through our international music clubs, the compositions of American composers have been presented. We have established a MacDowell Fellowship for the use of the American composer. We are collecting music and sending it to stricken China. We are going to a conference called by the Secretary of State in the interest of maintaining happy and friendly relations between the Americas. We know of the interpretative powers of music between nations; we are at this time emphasizing sending music abroad. Last week we sent a large supply of music to Belgium, Sweden and Scotland. May our foundations in the United States be strengthened by a high purpose for the support of all things good! ADDRESS; By President Louise Y. Robison N the early part of this year it was my privilege to attend a conference held in the White House. I wish you might have the thrill which came to me the day I spent there. It was not the beautiful building, it was not even the thought that presidents or officers of our government lived there, although I honor these men in their positions. It was something more than that; it was my country, and it stood for opportunity and the fine things of life which it gives to us just to the extent that we are prepared to receive them. I was a bit early for the conference, possibly twenty minutes before the opening of the meeting. I was so glad that I had a few minutes to think, and I thanked God that I could say, "This is my country," and it is my country because my parents accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ and came to this land. My parents were English-born. I was never more thankful for them, that they were the type who heard the voice of the Shepherd through His servants when he called them to gather to this land, described by the prophets in the Book of Mormon as a land choice above all other lands. There were representatives from Alaska, Hawaii, Porto Rico, as well as from every state in the Union except two in attendance at the conference. It was interesting to sec how earnestly the subject of character education for our children was approached and how sincerely ways and means of accomplishing this were sought. I was interested in the address of Mr. Homer Folks. I will read just a bit of his address to let you see, as I do now, the possibility of every little child, whether it be your child or another person's, if properly cared for. Sister Amy W., Evans, a former member of our General Board, used to say that good social work, good community service, means that the community gives to every child the same attention that one would want given to his own child. The following paragraph from Homer Folks implies the wonderful opportunities there are for children. He said: "In planning for this 1939 conference, we have been looking ahead, 780 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not to 1940, but to 1980 or thereabouts. Somewhere within these United States, within the past few years, was born a child who will be elected in 1980 to the most responsible office in the world, whose incumbent lives here. We cannot guess his name or whereabouts. He may come from any place and from any social or economic group. He may now be in the home of one of the soft-coal miners, or in the family of a sharecropper, or quite possibly in the home of one of the unemployed, or in a family migrating from the Dust Bowl, or in a college professor's family, or he may be surrounded with every facility, convenience, and protection which money can buy. Very likely his home is on a farm. Even Dr. Gallup with his poll can give us no light on this problem." Children born in any of these situations can become leaders in this great country of ours. Mr. Folks later said that even though a child does not become President, there are hundreds of governors, mayors and lawmakers needed. In our Church think of the number of bishops, stake presidents and apostles needed, as well as the great office of president of the Church. What wonderful opportunities there are for children! But there are other things that must also be given them. Of course, attention was called to their need for good homes, food and medical help, but a fine Catholic Priest said, "Character, more than brains and brawn, is the essential for successful living and for an ordered society. To build character, youth must be taught the art of right thinking and the science of self-control." Speaking further, he said: "Man or child cannot do without absolutes; namely, the existence of God, the eternal and immutable principles of tight and wrong, and the inherent dignity of man." WHEN I heard these things, of course my mind turned to the Relief Society. What is Relief Society doing to uphold these standards and meet these needs? In listening to Sister Lyman and Sister Barker as they told of the real work we are doing, I realized that we have a program that will take care of every one of these needs. Statistics given me by a school nurse from a community within one hundred miles of Salt Lake City reveal that out of 476 examinations of sixth grade children, which means children about eleven years old who have their permanent teeth, only 60 children's teeth were in good condition. Now, much depends upon Relief Society. We have the means, we have the provisions for caring for these things. No matter how fine the spirit of a child or how hard he tries, he is handicapped when grown to manhood if he has a weak body. So we must build up the bodies of children and also direct them so they will live in accordance with the principles that have been given us. The thing that pleases me in contemplating all of this is that we were told to do these things by a prophet of God, a man whom God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ spoke to and told of the needs of the people not only a hundred years ago, but right today. Sisters of the Relief Society, see where you can put these things into practice. It was the opinion of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 781 conference held in the White House that the home, the school and the church are responsible for those things which they deemed even more essential than material things —the emotional and religious training that will result in good characters. I pray my Heavenly Father that He will bless you wonderful women, that He will go with you to your homes and to your groups, and that you will have the spirit which we have had in this conference. Yesterday was marvelous; there were so many splertdid instructions—read them in your Magazine. I think a very interesting thing is revealed in the life of the Savior, the Son of God. He had power to call legions to His command, but when that terrible hour came and He knew He had to pass through a terrible ordeal, the Bible tells us in Matthew that He went to Gethsemane with His disciples and He was sorrowful, and He said to his friends Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, "Tarry ye here, and watch with me." He was sorrowful unto death, and while He prayed they slept, and when He came to them, He said, "What, could ye not watch with me one hour?" I wonder if there is any one here who does not need the human touch, who does not, through the Relief Society, have the opportunity of watching the one hour with those who are bearing heavy burdens! Look after those who have heavy burdens. You have been given that privilege, you can comfort and bless souls. May God help you that you may see how to do it, and may you have His spirit to lead you I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.  Notice: Conference Addresses N the interest of time and wide distribution, it has been deemed advisable to publish Relief Society Conference Addresses in the Relief Society Magazine rather than in a special Conference pamphlet. The Address by President David O. McKay will appear in full in a later issue of the Magazine. Digests of the following will also appear: "Lesson Objectives"—Mark K. Allen "Good Reading—Joan of Arc", Rosannah C. Irvine "Les Miserables", Belle S. Spafford "Report of Family Relations Work in Stakes", Annie M. Farr, Smithfield Stake, Emma G. Phillips, Liberty Stake "Educational Work of the Relief Society", Counselor Kate M. Barker DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Lesson 5 Saul's Vision and HELPFUL REFERENCES F. W. Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul, chs. X, XI. A. T. Robertson, Epochs in the Life of Paul, pp. 39-102. B. W. Robinson, The Life of Paul, PP: 43°73- J. P. Smyth, The Story of St. Paul's Life and Letters, pp. 28-52. F. A. Spencer, Beyond Damascus, chs. XI, XII. SAUL, SAUL, WHY PERSECUTEST THOU ME?" — Saul's zeal and ability made him the scourge of the early Christians. He went from house to house ferreting out men and women who were members of the accursed society that proclaimed allegiance to Jesus, the arisen Messiah. Saul must have satisfied himself in time that the threat of a flourishing Christian community in Jerusalem was past, for we next find him seeking another field of labor. "And Saul, yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went unto the high priest, and desired of him. Letters to Damascus, to the synagogues, that if he found any of this Way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem." (Acts 9:1, 2.) We shall have to admit one thing about the Changed Life Saul—he was thorough. Nothing short of complete extermination of the early church satisfied him. The unusual quality of Saul's intellect and training shows up plainly even in his persecution activities. But the Lord took a hand. A vigorous, sincere, well-disciplined Pharisee, if rightly taught, could do just as much good in the service of the Church, as he could evil under the influence of a mistaken Jewish philosophy. Let us not be misled. Saul was no ordinary Pharisee. He had undoubtedly led a clean, wholesome life which, judging from certain statements of Christ in the Gospels, could not be said of some Pharisees. Furthermore, he had the special qualities necessary to make a successful apostle. Otherwise, the Master would never have chosen him for the important service he had in mind. We truly believe that Saul in all of his persecutions and drivings of the Christians did so with a firm conviction that he was in God's service. (I Timothy 1:12, 13.) He was no hypocrite. Shortly before reaching Damascus, Saul had his famous vision. "And suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven; and he fell to the earth, and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why per- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 783 secutest thou me?" We need not argue, as some have done, over the details of this vision and attempt to wrest from the Scriptures more than they plainly tell us. (Acts 9:3-9; 22:6-11; 26:12-18; I Cor. 15:8.) Suffice it to say that Saul knew, better than it was possible for mortal man to express, that Jesus was the Christ. He was henceforth to be in the service of the Master. SAUL REVERSES HIMSELF. We can only imagine what it must have meant to a man of Saul's training and temperament to suddenly find that the hated Jesus of Nazareth, whose humble followers he had been persecuting, was in reality the Messiah for whose coming the Jews were all looking. The greater the intelligence and training of a man under such circumstances, the greater the shock—and Saul was highly intelligent. When he could find words he said, "Who art thou, Lord?" The Lord said, "I am Jesus, whom thou persecutest. But rise, and stand upon thy feet; for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose to make thee a minister and a witness both of these things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee; delivering thee from the people, and from the Gentiles, unto whom I now send thee, to open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. Go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do." (See Acts 26:16-18; 9:5, 6.) It will be noted that Saul mentions not one word of reproach from the Savior. He was taken, physically blind, but spiritually very much awake, to Damascus where he was left at the house of one Judas, who was probably expecting him. (Acts 9:11.) Saul's three days of blindness roughly correspond in effect to the repetition of visions experienced by the Prophet Joseph Smith—his affliction gave him a good opportunity for mental readjustment and impressed the teachings he had received more firmly upon his mind. His theology, like Job, was on the ash heap, but out of it a new one, incomparably greater, was to arise. Saul's remarkable training in the Scriptures enabled him to understand quickly the teachings of Christ. Soon the whole panorama of Christian philosophy would be spread out before his quick mentality. After Ananias had healed Saul (Acts 9:10-19) the latter began to preach of Christ as zealously as he had formerly persecuted him. He did so well that soon the Jews sought to put him to death. (Acts 9:20-25.) This change on Saul's part we may call the Great Reversal. It is probably the greatest in history and has had greatest effects. A JEWISH THEOLOGIAN LEARNS CHRISTIANITY. One gets the impression from reading Acts 9:26-30 that Saul, immediately after escaping his enemies in Damascus, set out for Jerusalem and on arriving there conferred with the apostles. In the letter to the Galatians (1:16-19) we get a different understanding of what happened. "I immediately conferred not with flesh and blood; neither went I up to Jerusalem to those which were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia, and returned again unto Da- 784 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mascus. Then, after three years, I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and abode with him fifteen days. But other of the apostles saw I none, save James, the Lord's brother." We do not know what part of Arabia Saul departed to, whether Sinai in the south, or elsewhere. He found quiet places where he could meditate and be taught by the spirit of revelation. In his letter to the Galatians, Saul emphasizes the fact that he did not receive the Gospel from man. "Nor was I taught it, but I received it through revelation of Jesus Christ." (Galatians 1:12.) It is perfectly possible that Saul, like Moses, John the Baptist, and even the Christ, learned many or most of the principles he was to teach by revelation while in Arabia. Because of the fact that he was to be a special emissary to the Gentiles he no doubt received instructions pertaining to that calling. We should much like to know what passed between Peter and Saul during the latter's visit to Jerusalem. It is probable that Peter told Saul first hand his experiences in the service of the Master and received in exchange the younger man's story of his unusual revelation. The visit of the future Apostle of the Gentiles to Jerusalem was not devoid of unpleasant experiences. The disciples still remembered his former persecutions and were afraid of him until Barnabas reassured them. (Acts 9:26, 27.) While in Jerusalem Saul preached boldly and soon was forced to flee to Tarsus via Caesarea. (Acts 9:28-30.) Saul seems to have worked in Syria and Cilicia for a long time, apparently fourteen years. (Galatians 1:21; 2:1.) During this period he received remarkable revelations that set him apart as one of God's great men. (See II Corinthians 12:1-4.) All of these experiences prepared Saul for the wider fields of missionary service that were yet to come. SAUL APPROVED FOR THE WORK. It is not to be inferred by this topic heading that Saul had not already been preaching. But his most vital and lasting contribution to Christianity was yet to come. The young Church of Christ had not yet formally declared its approval of a mission to the Gentiles. And work among the Gentiles was destined to be Saul's special work and joy. One of the many points showing the Acts to be an inspired book is that Peter, not Saul, formally opens the mission to the Gentiles. (Acts 10, 11.) That is as it should be for, according to the order of the Priesthood, it was Peter's prerogative to receive the revelation pertaining to and give the orders to set in motion any momentous undertaking. True enough, Saul had apparently been preaching: to the Gentiles, but not officially. (Galatians 2:2.) According to Acts 11:19-30 a thriving branch of the Church had been built up at Antioch. A number of "Greeks," or Gentiles, had also believed and "turned to the Lord". The report of them created great interest in Jerusalem, and Barnabas was sent to investigate. He sought out Saul, and both of them worked a year in Antioch with great success. At the time of the great famine, Barnabas and Saul were entrusted with relief funds for the brethren at Jerusalem. (See Acts 11:27-30.) It is probable that this visit is the one referred to in Gal. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 785 2:1, 2. "Then, fourteen years after, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, and took Titus with me, also. And I went up by revelation, and communicated unto them that Gospel which I preach among the Gentiles." Apparently the time was at hand for Saul to begin his formal mission to the Gentiles, and the Lord wanted him to explain his views and calling to the heads of the Church. In fact, Saul says that he had been intrusted "with the gospel of the Uncircumcision, as Peter was with that of the Circumcision." (Gal. 2:7.) The Church Authorities then gave Saul and Barnabas "right hands of fellowship" that they should go to the Gentiles. (Gal. 2:9.) Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit) 1. Compare the backgrounds of Saul and Joseph Smith in relation to age, education and experience at the time they received their first visions. 2. Name as many qualifications of Saul as you can that eminently fitted him to be an apostle to the Gentiles. 3. Describe Saul's character as portrayed in the ninth chapter of the Acts. 4. Why did such a long time elapse between Saul's first vision and the time the Church Authorities gave him the right hand of fellowship to carry on work among the Gentiles? (See Gal. 2:1-9.) 5. See if you can arrange a connected story of Saul's activities from the death of Stephen to the time he went up to Jerusalem to consult Peter, James and John about the gospel he was preaching to the Gentiles. (See Acts 7:11; 22:26; II Cor. 11:32, 33; Gal. 1:2.) Visiting Teacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 5 Manifestations of Love "This is the love of God, that we keep his commandments." THE love of God is manifest in the love of fellowmen. "If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar; for ~ he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this commandment have we from him, That he who loveth God love his ~ brother also." (I John 4:20-21.) "Love worketh no ill to his neighI John 5:3. Bor; therefore love is the fulfilling of the law." (Romans 13:10.) Love of one person for another consists "in doing what is for that other's best good—his highest and most lasting good," but never in using another as a means toward realizing one's own satisfaction. In the language of the philosopher Kant: "Treat every person as an end in himself, never as a means." 786 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The manifestation of love is well illustrated in the attitude of the ideal parent toward his child. He would provide conditions most favorable for the child to develop his own capacities to the full, and to realize for himself the most lasting satisfactions through his usefulness to his fellows. This parental attitude should be extended to all those with whom we may be associated. Thus may love be manifest in the true spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Discussion 1. What conditions in your community are not favorable for the best development of all individuals? 2. What can Relief Society do toimprove conditions? What is our individual responsibility? 3. How did the Master manifest love? Literature THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 5 Les Miserables ONE literary critic has said: "For the great mass of the reading public, Les Miserables has a decided superiority over all the other productions of Victor Hugo.... Even for one who does not care for his magnificence of style, or for his striking way of presenting humors and social problems, or for the stream of poetry that runs through everything he wrote, the story told in this great novel is as fascinating as anything written by that greatest of amusers, Alexandre Dumas." When Jean Valjean realizes what the Bishop of D—— has done for him, he is touched to the heart and, henceforth believes in goodness and makes it his law. His future life is a series of self-sacrifices resulting in moral growth. As this novel is a "social record," the pages of Les Miserables are crowded with characters representing all types of people from all stations of life as they play a part in the life drama of Jean Valjean. Fantine, the girl from the Latin quarter, was, in the words of the author, "one of those beings which are brought forth from the heart of the people. Sprung from the most unfathomable depths of social darkness, she bore on her brow the mark of the anonymous and unknown... Who were her parents? None could tell, she had never known either father or mother... At the time of her birth the directory was still in existence. She could have no family name for she had no family. She could have no baptismal name, for then there was no church... She was called little Fantine. Nobody knew anything more of her... At the age of ten, Fantine left the city and went to service among the farmers of the suburbs. At fifteen she came to Paris to seek her fortune. Fantine was beautiful and remained pure as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 787 long as she could... She worked to live; then, also to live, for the heart too has its hunger, she loved." She was abandoned by her lover and forced into a life of degradation to support her child Cosette. A wonderfully dramatic and pathetic picture of Fantine is drawn. Her mother-love is exquisitely described. Hugo says: "She had committed a fault; but in the depths of her nature, we know dwelt modesty and virtue." Realizing that in order to provide for the child she must place it with others, Fantine left Cosette at the Inn with the infamous Thenardiers. The story of the child's life here rivals the worst experiences of Oliver Twist and Nicholas Nickleby. It is the same kind of compelling protest against the abuses of children. Master novelist that he is, Hugo delights in contrast. In the Bishop of D—— he has drawn a character embodying tender mercy and divine hope, the influence of which redeems Jean Valjean. In Javert, the police officer, is expressed the dark shadow of an evil past. He has recognized the ex-convict, and though Valjean temporarily evades him, wherever he goes Javert ferrets him out. In Book V, Chapter V, a remarkable picture is given of Javert, who is quite as distinct a character in one field as the Bishop is in another. It is an interesting study to note in this great novel the two forces in conflict as they influence the life of Jean Valjean. "Javert was born in prison. His mother was a fortune-teller whose husband was in the galleys. He grew up to think himself without the pale of society,. And despaired of ever entering it. He noticed that society closes its doors without pity on two classes of men, those who attack it, and those who guard it; he could choose between these two classes only... He entered the police. He succeeded. At forty he was an inspector... This man was a compound of two sentiments, very simple and very good in themselves, but he almost made them evil by his exaggeration of them; respect for authority and hatred of rebellion; and in his eyes all crimes were only forms of rebellion... He had nothing but disdain, aversion and disgust for all who had once overstepped the bounds of the law... They are irremediably lost; no good can come out of them... And his whole person expressed the spy and the informer." Under the name of Monsieur Madeline, Valjean has become a rich manufacturer, mayor of the town, and a noted philanthropist. Among his many kind acts, he befriends Fantine, whose life has become a series of sordid tragedies as she tries to earn money to send to the Thenardiers for the care of Cosette. Chapter VI is the recital of a marvelous act of self-sacrifice on the part of Monsieur Madeline. At the risk of his life, he saves a man in the village known to be his enemy. Javert has been among the spectators and is convinced through the demonstration of marvelous strength of the identity of Madeline. Though his whole life is a series of kind acts and generous thoughts for others, the evil genius of the past is ever present in Javert, who seeks Valjean for stealing the forty sous piece from the 788 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE child the day he left the Bishop's home. In atonement for that act, for which he was not responsible, Valjean had never ceased to search for the little fellow to make restitution, and had given thousands of francs and befriended all children. He is the only real friend Fantine has ever had; she tells him of Cosette, whom he promises to bring to her. Jean Valjean, to save another man mistaken for him, surrenders himself and is returned to prison. The chapters dealing with Monsieur Madeline's mental conflict are among the most thrilling and graphically presented psychological studies to be found in fiction. His surrender means the giving up of the fine business which is the very life of the village, it means giving up the social security he had obtained with such effort. The man suspected is a ne'er-do-well. The struggle is a fierce one. The chapter relating the interview between Javert and Monsieur Madeline is one of the most dramatic climaxes in literature. The spirit of the Bishop of D——— is ever with Jean Valjean, and in the end his conscience triumphs. The officer relates the circumstantial evidence against the prisoner and expresses his positive conviction that it is Jean Valjean. He tells what the nature of the conviction will be for the ex-convict and finally apologizes to Monsieur Madeline for having suspected him. Chapter XI, Book Seven, records the famous trial. The accused has been identified as Jean Valjean and convicted when Monsieur Madeline appears and says in a mild voice: " "Gentlemen of the jury, release the accused. Your honor, order my arrest. He is not the man whom ye seek; it is I. I am Jean Valjean,' " His speech to the court is a model of simplicity and sincerity. It leaves no room for doubt. He tells where they can find the forty sous piece of which, seven years before, he had robbed Petit Gervais. It is Javert who arrests Valjean as he is paying a visit to Fantine who is dying. A world of pathos is expressed in this death scene. Not until Fantine is dead will Valjean leave her. Then he goes with Javert to the city prison from which he makes his escape during the night. He returns to his home where the two nuns are watching the body of Fantine. He makes provision for a decent burial for her; he is very generous in his gifts for the poor, and he entrusts the Cure to take charge of all he leaves behind. He carefully packs the two silver candlesticks with which he never parts. His hair has turned snow white in the fearful ordeal through which he has passed. He leaves the village to go to Paris. The death of Fantine closes the first major division of the novel. THE second division consists of the famous treatise on Waterloo. To quote from one of Victor Hugo's biographers: "No writer so constantly and fervently joined in the Napoleonic worship a$ did Victor Hugo; we must add that in no subject was he so much at ease as in these themes on Napoleon. The greatness of the man, the greatness of the events, the contrast between the height of power to which he attained and the depths of misery which succeeded the splendor of his triumphs—all these elements admirably blended with the love of the gi- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 789 gantic, the admiration for contrast and antithesis, the gorgeous imagery which distinguished Hugo's muse." As Jean Valjean wandered over the battlefield of Waterloo, the author takes occasion to reveal, as he saw it, the whole of that gigantic military tragedy. It is a classic complete in itself, but it has a very direct bearing on the novel in its final development. The comments on the nations and the leaders of their armies in this mighty conflict are in Hugo's best style. Chapter XVI deals with the Duke of Wellington and the English. "Waterloo, moreover, is the strangest encounter in history. Napoleon and Wellington; they are not enemies, they are opposites. Never has God, who takes pleasure in antithes- - is, made a more striking contrast and a more extraordinary meeting." Wellington is calculation, Napoleon genius—and "this time genius was vanquished by calculation... Waterloo is a battle of the first rank, won by a captain of the second. What is truly admirable in the Battle of Waterloo is England; English firmness, English resolution, English blood, the superb thing which England had there—may it not displease her—is herself. It is not her captain, it is her army." Another quotation: "Was it possible that Napoleon should win this battle? We answer no. Why? Because of Wellington? Because of Blucher? No. Because of God. For Bonaparte to be conqueror at Waterloo was not in the law of the nineteenth century. Another series of facts were preparing in which Napoleon had no place. The ill-will of events had long been announced. It was time that this vast man should fall.... Reeking blood, over-crowded cemeteries, weeping mothers, these are formidable pleaders. When the earth is suffering from a surcharge, there are mysterious moanings from the depths which the heavens hear. Napoleon had been impeached before the Infinite, and his fall was decreed. He vexed God. Waterloo is not a battle; it is the change of front of the universe." Jean Valjean was retaken and returned to the galleys. The chapters under the heading, "The Ship Orion" give an account of the collapse of the fine business he, as Monsieur Madeline, had established, and the lapse of the village again into poverty, a sad comment on the irony of life. The story of Jean Valjean's rescue of the sailor who had fallen overboard is a marvelous demonstration of physical strength and _self-sacrifice. "The throng applauded; old galley sergeants wept, women hugged each other on the wharves, and on all sides, voices were heard exclaiming, with a sort of tenderly subdued enthusiasm: "This man must. Be pardoned!'... The next morning the Toulon Journal published the following lines—November 17, 1823. Yesterday a convict at work on board the Orion, on his return from rescuing a sailor, fell into the sea, and was drowned. His body was not recovered. It is presumed that it has been caught under the piles at the pier-head of the arsenal. This man was registered by the number 9430, and his name was Jean Valjean." Questions and Suggestions 1. Briefly relate the story of Fantine. 790 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 2. What great English novelist of this period in some characteristics suggests Hugo? 3. Have someone give a brief sketch of Javert. Compare him with the Bishop of D———. 4. Why did Hugo write with so much feeling of the Battle of Waterloo? Estimate the literary value of the sketch. 5. Describe the transformation in Jean Valjean. Social Service Lesson 5 How To Sell The Gospel I. WHY IS IT IMPORTANT TO SELL THE GOSPEL? We who are convinced of the truthfulness of the Gospel often fail to see why other people do not feel as we do about it. We are convinced that the "Lord hath spoken" and that the world should be warned. But let us not overlook the fact that we must "sell" the idea to the world that the Gospel has been restored. To say the "Lord hath spoken again" does not arouse much interest in most people outside the Church today. We live in such a practical age that everyone wants to be "shown". Our own members are also affected by this spirit of the times. To keep our own members active we must continually "sell" the Gospel to them bydemonstrating concretely how it meets the fundamental wants of mankind. The use of commands and authority to keep people active in the Church is effective only with certain dispositions. There are other dispositions who can be stimulated only through showing them how the Church serves its members. The word of the Lord must be presented in such a way that the people will want to accept it. The Latter-day Saint message is a bold one and requires great skill in presenting it if it is to be accepted. A wise approach to those we would teach or convert is first to try to understand the person, all of his interests, enthusiasms, and the calibre of his intelligence and the language in which he thinks. We then should present aspects of our message that will appeal to him, that will lead him to ask for more information. One wonders if an intelligent approach to prospective converts, along the line of attack just mentioned, will not appeal to a distinctly different type of people than does the older method of blunt, dogmatic, and authoritative preaching. II. WHAT DO PEOPLE WANT FROM A RELIGION? Formerly we were taught that we have a definite "instinct" for religion which leads everyone to search out God some time in his life. Newer thought on this subject contends that the "mainsprings" back of religious behavior are as numerous and complicated as the motives behind any other phase of life. Some people participate in the Church as a result of one set of motives while others RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 791 are driven by distinctly different ones. There is still considerable difference of opinion as to what are the principal wants back of our participation in the Church. The wants named here should not be considered the only ones. They are, however, some of those most commonly found. A sense of security is the goal toward which much of our daily striving is directed. We all strongly want to feel secure in the love of our family, secure in our homes, secure financially, and secure in the favor of God. Uncertainty as to what comes after death, whether loved ones survive death, and whether righteousness will prevail in eternity—these uncertainties are removed by faith. The feeling that we are "on the Lord's side" is a great satisfaction in itself during these troublous days of world upheaval. Our faith that through Jesus all shall live again makes us feel secure that we are an eternal part of the great scheme of things. People with no faith feel insecure because their lives have no plan with which to anchor themselves. This is the sense of security which faith gives us. Spirituality, or a deep interest in the theological questions of the origin and destiny of the spirit of man, might be classed as an important want or need in many people. The appeal to spirituality has force with certain temperaments, while with others it seems to have little influence. The Gospel answers perplexing questions of a spiritual nature so adequately that often this appeal is one of the strongest that can be used in influencing people to participate in the Church. On the other hand, we should perhaps admit that wants that are somewhat removed from spiritual questions also are satisfied by Church work. For example, sociability (formerly called gregariousness) probably brings many people into Church activities. In small communities the Church is frequently the center of social life, as it should be. Interest in the social activities may lead to interest in the more spiritual mission of the Church. If we could but say, "Come along, let's go to Church—everybody will be there," we would be appealing to the want for sociability. Friendship with people who have faith makes us want to have faith, too. When several of our respected friends say, "I believe Dr. X is a good doctor," we fall in line and believe so, too. Likewise, if our closest friends are saying, "I believe a person is happier to be doing something in the Church," we are inclined to think so too. Closely related to the want for sociability is the want for social approval. This want may be satisfied in various ways through the Church. Good standing in the Church is itself a mark of social approval and lends prestige to a person in his other social relations, barring apparent hypocrisy. The feats of daring, sacrifice and endurance of our Pioneers are admired and, therefore, interesting to so-called "tougher-minded" people who are little interested in other phases of the Church. A certain amount of social approval is reflected to the Church in general because of the admiration shown for the physical courage of the Pioneers and colonizers of our early history. Perhaps we should point out here that the want for social approval in 792 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE some cases is the only reason some people participate in the Church. In all teaching we should attempt to lead people to satisfy not one want but many, otherwise we should perhaps question their genuine faith in the Gospel as a whole. The want for love or affection is also of deep importance in motivating faith. Love of our families and friends makes us want to be united for all time. The teachings of the Church regarding the sanctity of the home are aimed at preserving love and good will in this life as well as in the hereafter. If we can show anyone who is not enjoying the benefits of the Church that love and home are more secure under the influence of our religious faith, we have made an appeal that touches close to the heart and which is likely to bring a favorable response to our message. The want to be a leader is very strong in many people, although not a universal want with all types of personalities. The organization units of the Church permit almost everyone who so desires to express his leadership. An opportunity to reach some position of leadership is the promise to all who will be genuinely faithful in performing their duties and meeting their obligations. A desire or want to be of service is closely related to the want for leadership and is a strong motive in our finest members. Some people are happy only when they are doing something for someone else. In fact, one of the aims of the Church is to permit its members to serve through the various organizations with their varied activities. A person's character grows by serving, and this growth gives a person a pleasant feeling of self-regard which in turn is also a strong incentive to service. The Relief Society perhaps satisfies more completely the desire to serve than any other organization. III. THE ART OF TEACHING. Now that we have recognized wants as the starting point in teaching and missionary work, a few suggestions are in order as to how wants may be utilized. In a scripture-reading age, an appeal was generally made through the authority of scriptural citations. We thus, by the use of authority, attempted to shift to our way of thinking a solution of wants that had already been found through some other religion. This method was very successful in many cases, and still is with people who follow this line of thinking. (For example, see Ben E. Rich's Mr. Durant of Salt Lake City.) But now we more often find it necessary to establish religion itself as a means of solving the problems of human wants. To do this the appeal to scriptural authority is of little value. We must now appeal to human wants themselves. Wants are often not clearly defined in our prospective convert's mind, in which case our task is to define the want or to arouse a new one. Some people are so bent on satisfying one or two major wants— such as financial gain and social prestige—that they are not aware of the need for security in a spiritual sense, or the need for safeguarding spiritual and family relationships. We as teachers may find it necessary to arouse these spiritual wants so that our message will have an appeal, be- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 793 cause where there is no desire there is no interest in our message. Assuming that we have found or created wants in other people, we must carefully show that what we have to offer through the Church is an adequate solution to those wants. Here again we must guard against dogmatism; we must refrain from promising more than the person is likely to find. If our claims are overstated, our investigator is likely to be disappointed, and his reaction will be like that of a person who has been "oversold" on some article of merchandise and then disappointed. We should be interested in winning people to a better way of life through the Church, not simply toa period of great enthusiasm followed by sudden cooling off. Proper "follow up" is as essential in Church work as in business. When we have shown a person how his wants can be satisfied by participation in the Church, we must reduce resistance to action by pointing out some concrete responses to be made soon. We may suggest coming to one of the meetings in the next few days. Offer to call for him on your way, in order to reduce the resistance a person naturally has in starting a new course of action on his own initiative. A stranger is not easily motivated to come alone to a meeting where he must "break into" the social group without the help of a friend. Let us not expect people to change their ways over night. Encourage them to make little attempts at first, larger ones later as they become more interested. We must not forget, too, that our own enthusiasm and sincerity in what we are doing is contagious, that it goes far toward making people believe that there must be some value in what we are doing. If our own lives are happy through satisfying our wants through the Church, we are likely to be good missionaries or teachers; if we are half-hearted, no one will be convinced that our way of life is better than any other. IV. ESTABLISH PLEASANT FEELINGS. There are many possible methods of creating pleasant feelings. In the first place, a clean and neat appearance of the teacher is as important as it is for the salesman. A congenial manner, based upon genuine interest in other people, is also important. Cheerfulness should radiate from us and joy in the faith we have. Our love of fellow men should make us tolerant and tactful. Our meetings themselves should be carefully planned to create pleasant feelings. The music should be well rendered. Care should be taken to make the appearance of the room clean and inviting. An excellent Relief Society project is to beautify the class room. Attractive pictures should adorn the walls. We have learned in public school work that a pleasant school room contributes to the progress of learning and personality growth, because it also improves the "emotional climate" and thereby promotes more congenial relationships. Friendly and personal greeting at the door appeals to the desire to be recognized, and one feels happier for having come. Well planned and well executed programs prevent strain and unrest and should be encouraged. Nothing is more discour- 794 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE aging to a person who begins to show some interest in Church activities than to come to a meeting and not be spoken to or made to feel welcome, and then to feel strained because the officers do not seem to know what the program is. Reference to the sentiments surrounding the ideals of the home, loyalty to the Church, to the flag and to the Constitution, belief in the hereafter and eternal ties tend to arouse pleasant feelings in us and make us want to continue attending the services. V. GUARD AGAINST ANTAGONIZING. When we begin to change our ways, we admit that we have not done the best we could, and we may feel embarrassed at this admission. We particularly dislike to be shown we are wrong. The teacher or missionary is in the dangerous position of appearing to think "T am better than thou." He must, therefore, let the other person "save his face," i. e. Find for himself that our solution is the best one. We simply lead the way through suggestions; we should not try to force our belief on a person. If we do, we may deflate his ego and arouse antagonism toward us. We should avoid using ridicule and disparaging criticism for the same reason. If a person apparently has deep prejudices against some phase of the Church, we should respect those prejudices by not attacking them directly. A better plan is to create good feeling first, and then associate that feeling with some phase of the work not so directly related to the prejudices. Another error we should guard against, particularly in handling our own members who are irregular in attending meetings, is to force them to participate publicly when to do so may embarrass them. Some personalities naturally dislike to appear before a group to speak, sing or pray. We should avoid forcing participation when it may arouse unpleasant feelings, which may be the cause of the person's not continuing to attend meetings. Gradual opportunity for expression should be offered with the hope that courage and enjoyment in this kind of participation will gradually develop. We should always let the person we teach feel that he is entitled to the credit for changing his life. Never should we boast of the conversions we make. We should be happy in the souls we help to save, but not selfish in the glory. A truly converted person is so happy he wants to help others to share what he has found. The teacher or missionary may not always feel at first a keen desire to be his brother's keeper, but somehow teaching has a way of converting the teacher. A missionary strengthens his own faith by having to defend it. Teaching, itself, makes us more aware of how the Church may serve our wants. Problems For Discussion 1. Show the importance of understanding the wants of people as a basis for leading them to participate in the Church. 2. Name a few wants the Church satisfies. 3. Which of the wants mentioned in the lesson did Jesus appeal to when He said, "Whosoever believeth in Him should not perish but RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 795 have eternal life. For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish but have everlasting life?" 4. What can your Relief Society group do to create more pleasant feelings as an inducement for new members to come out? (Consider not only the physical atmosphere but the emotional atmosphere created by the feelings the members have toward one another.) 5. What would you say are the essentials of successful visiting teaching? What are the common mistakes to guard against? References See references on salesmanship given at the close of last month's lesson. Education for Family Life ~ FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS - Lesson Five Family Unity N our consideration of family relationships we have accepted Burgess' definition of the family; namely, "that the family is a unity of interacting personalities". In order to have a clear understanding of this point of view of the family, we must define the terms interaction and unity. The term interaction signifies the process by which meanings are communicated from one person to another, resulting in mutual modification. Society, or any part of society, exists only to the extent that interaction takes place. The type or quality of interaction determines the degree of unity within a given group. Unity is a relative term and one not easy to define; in fact, one author states that unity means whatever one wishes it to mean. Lumley says: "Whatever we consider as unity is unity. 'Unity is affirmed,' says the dictionary, 'of a simple substance or indivisible monad or of several particles or parts so intimately and closely united as to constitute a separate body or thing; it is a state of being one—oneness; it is a state of harmony, concord, conjunction, agreement, uniformity, cooperation, coherence, coordination, mutual aid, sympathetic understanding, conformity, solidarity; it is system, or- ' ganization, universe of discourse, community.' These are terms that represent attempts to point out, adequately characterize, and finally to say fully and accurately what unity is and what it is not." Even the above statement, as complete as it may seem, does not give us an adequate concept of family unity. Unity within the family implies E. Lumley, Principles of Sociology. Pp: 132-33- 796 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE love, security, stability, status, and power. Mowrer stresses the importance of the emotional factor in family unity. He says: "The family is not merely a group of individuals living in close proximity, as formal studies of divorce and desertion seem to assume. It is also an organization of attitudes and ideals which each family develops independently and which characterizes the family as a cultural group. Family pride, family prejudice, the jokes and proverbs intelligible to no outsider, and the hopes and ambitions that distinguish families from one another help to make up what may be called the 'family complex'. It is this identification of interests which makes of the family a cooperating unit, felt by its members and recognized by the community. The unity of the family lies, in other words, not in any formal obligation which the law imposes but in the interaction between its members. There is that intimate identification which grows out of unity of feeling and emotion. Thus, it is unnecessary for one member of the family to give expression of his approval or disapproval in language, for the others already know from more subtle expressions. Again, the members all respond to the same appeals, and their sympathies are aroused by the same causes. Failure to share in the family interests marks one as somewhat deficient in the virtues of the family, and in the long run family pressure tends to be too strong and causes him to accept as inevitable that in which he previously had not shared. And so in joy or sorrow, in fame or disgrace, that which comes to one of the family is shared by all alike. It is this unity of feeling, therefore, which constitutes the dominant tone of the family and which with intellectual unity constitutes the essential element in the thing which we call the family." Following a recent discussion on family unity, a mother of four children made the statement that it would be a waste of time and effort to attempt to develop very much unity within their family group, because the personalities of the members were so varied. To think that unity depends upon likenesses only is indeed a fallacy. Differences and the conflicts that arise therefrom can be guided and controlled in the interest of the group welfare. It is not uncommon to find an increase in family unity as the result of the reorganization of the group which was made necessary by a crisis precipitated by individual differences. So far we have attempted to develop a concept of family unity. Our next concern is the problem of how to promote unity within the family group. First, may we call attention to the fact that in each of the four preceding lessons we have presented suggestions for family living that, if practiced, will enhance family unity. Meeting together in the family council will tend to develop both intellectual and emotional unity, as will also the democratic handling of the family pocketbook. If each mate assumes his responsibility to his partner, both will experience a sense of unity that will permeate the entire group; the children will unconsciously absorb a feeling of unity and will respond according- *Reuter and Runner, The Family, p. 481. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 797 ly in their relations with other members. If the father fails to function in the accepted role of the father, each member of the family will be conscious of a degree of disorganization within the group which, naturally, gives a feeling of lack of unity. The more frequently the family experiences satisfaction and happiness as a result of functioning together, other things being equal, the stronger will be the bonds of unity. The following are a few of the innumerable activities that may profitably be engaged in by the family as a group: Participating as a group in church activities, engaging in family prayer, reading and discussing together, not only the Bible and other Church books, but worth while books of any kind, magazines and the daily newspaper; planning appropriate birthday anniversaries, sharing responsibility in family observance of annual holidays, summer picnics and winter evening candy-pulls. Functioning together successfully creates a community of interests, which is a basic factor in family unity. As a unity of interacting personalities the family is constantly moving either toward improved organization or disorganization. If disorganization is allowed to go on unchecked, the obvious result will be family disintegration. It is important for each family to be able to determine which of the two processes is dominating the interaction in their group. E. T. Krueger has set up a criterion for determining the degree of unity within the family. He says: "The stabilized family as a unity of interacting personalities possesses the following characteristics: "1. The subordination of the members to a common objective. This common objective may be chiefly economic; it may center about education of the children; it may concern the realization of a social ideal of mutuality of attitudes between its members; it may be conceived as service to the state or to Deity; it may be directed toward the preservation of family traditions and social status. "2. The conscious cooperation of its members to realize the common objective. "3. A reciprocity of personal services by which each member becomes dependent upon the other members, the entire group representing an interdependence of activities of an intimate and mutual character. "4. A coordination of the roles of the members of the family in terms of obligations and privileges, such that each member assumes a positional relationship or status to every other member which defines his duties and permits, within limits, the personal satisfaction of wishes. "5. Participation of the family in a social or communal world by which the family plays a role and secures a positional or status relationship of prestige in reference to other families. "6. A consensus of emotional attitudes in which each individual member more or less harmoniously relates his life to that of every other member and to the group as a whole. In relation to other members the attitudes are those of affection, sympathy, and respect; to the group as a 798 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE whole the attitudes are those of loyalty, pride, and responsibility." THE strength of the family is determined by the degree of unity within the family. By strength we refer to the power and ability of the group to realize the purpose of family living. The fundamental purpose of the family is the development of personalities who can make a satisfactory adjustment to the world in which they live. In order for the individual to develop such a personality, among other things he must feel secure; he must experience love and affection; he must be able to enjoy the feeling that he is wanted and that he belongs to a family of which he can be proud. He must be permitted to share in the common activities of family living, assume a part of the duties and responsibilities and enjoy his due proportion of the rights and privileges. Unity within the family will not be developed unless there is a conscious effort on the part of each member to promote such development. Once more may we emphasize the fact that example is more powerful than precept. If there is unity between husband and wife, the foundation stone for family unity is laid. Disorganization within the family breeds social disorganization and paves the way for family and social disintegration. Unity within the family breeds social unity and paves *Reuter and Runner, The Family, p. 491. (We suggest that it would prove to be of great value if each family would spend an evening together in discussing the above six characteristics in relation to their own group. ) the way for successful and happy living for the individual as a member of the family and for the family as a unit of society. The happy and successful family represents a social unit of power and strength upon which society depends for the development of personalities who have the ability and characteristics of true leadership. Problems and Questions for Discussion 1. What methods and practices would you suggest whereby family differences might be directed toward strengthening family unity rather than permitting them to cause family disorganization? 2. From the point of view of family unity, evaluate the practice of celebrating the birthdays of family members. From the same standpoint, plan in detail what you would consider to be an ideal Thanksgiving Day. 3. From your observations of family life, explain each of the six characteristics of stabilized family life as listed by Krueger. 4. What indications of unity are evident in the family that you consider to be the most successful family in your community? References 1. The American Family, E. R. Groves, Pub. J. B. Lippincott and Co., Chicago. 2. Readings in the Family, E. R. Groves and L. M. Brooks, Pub. J. B. Lippincott and Company, Chicago. 3. Family Adjustment and _ Social Change, Manuel Conrad Elmer, Pub. Ray Long & Richard R. Smith Inc., New York. 4. Personality and the Family, Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart, Pub. D. C. Heath and Company, San Francisco. 5. Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, Burgess and Cottrell, Pub. PrenticeHall Inc., 70 Fifth Ave., New York. Vlisston Lessons L. D. S. CHURCH HISTORY Lesson 5 Witnesses AVE you ever stopped to think how it is that you come to believe certain things which you have not yourself actually experienced in some way? Of course, what we experience we accept as true. There is nothing else that we can do about it. Experience is the only way in which we can really know anything. 'That is, we see or hear or feel or taste or smell something, and we may, then truly say that we know it, instead of merely that we believe it. A great deal of what we accept in our lives comes to us in this way. But there are many things that we accept on the testimony of others. That is the way we put it. Someone tells us that a certain thing happened to him, and we accept that as true—unless, of course, we have reason to believe it to be unlikely or untrue. For someone else may have an experience which we have never had, and we are not safe in saying that he either did or did not have that experience. It will surprise you if you try to find out the number of things in your life which you accept on the mere say-so of other people. Historians will tell you, if you ask them, that every event in the past can be proved or disproved by the testimony of eye or ear witnesses. We cannot go back, say, to the time of George Washington in America or to the time of Alfred the Great in England, to see and hear things for ourselves. The best that we can do is to study what people in those times said or wrote about what happened. Now, when we do actually make a study of a letter or a diary or some other document that comes to us out of the past, we subject it to a certain test. The test set up by a very wise historian is this: Was the writer of that letter, journal, or whatnot able, and was he willing, to tell the truth? If he was, we accept the document as the truth. You may remember having read in St. Matthew (18:16) the advice of Jesus to persons who offend each other: "If he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established." This rule applies even to miracles. For even a miracle is witnessed by someone, if it is a miracle at all. HERE, then, is the Book of Mormon. It did not write itself. Someone wrote it. Who was that someone? Joseph Smith says that he did not write it—that is, that he did not make it up out of his head, as Hawthorne composed the Scarlet Letter or Scott Ivanhoe. He tells us, as we have seen, that he translated it by means of the urim and thummim from some gold plates given him by a heavenly messenger, who was a resurrected person. 800 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE That is quite an unusual statement to make. To believe Joseph's story, we must believe several important things. We must believe that this heavenly messenger was a real angel. We must accept the resurrection as a fact. We must believe in the actual existence of the gold plates, of the urim and thummim, and of the ancient breastplate. And we must believe that an unschooled boy, through the power of God, could be able to read, to understand, and to translate a language which he had never studied. All this we must accept if we are to believe in the Book of Mormon. Now, many people there are today who find it hard to believe such things. Hence, they ask that we give them some evidence that these things are true. Well, we have just such evidence. We have eleven men who say that they saw the gold plates, that they handled them, and that they examined the engravings on the leaves. And we have three men who declare, in addition, that they saw the angel Moroni, and that they heard the voice of God "bearing testimony" that the translation was correct. Do you know that we do not have a single witness to any event in the Bible—outside the one who tells it? Paul had a vision of Jesus after the resurrection. There were others with him at the time, but these have left us nothing by way of testimony. What would we not give now for a bit of confirmation of Paul's statements! Yet, the whole Christian world today accepts without question his account of the great vision. GUPPOSE you turn now to the flyleaf of the Book of Mormon and tread aloud the testimony of the Right Witnesses. The names of these eight men are: Christian Whitmer, Jacob Whitmer, Peter Whitmer, Jr., John Whitmer, Hiram Page, Joseph Smith, Sr., Hyrum Smith, and Samuel H. Smith. Three of them, as you will see, belong to the Smith family and four to the Whitmer family. Page was a son-in-law of Peter Whitmer, Sr. The reason why others were not chosen as witnesses is that there were no others. But the fact of the relationship of the witnesses is nothing against their testimony. You will notice that the testimony of these eight men is to a matterof-fact showing of the gold plates They were shown the plates by Joseph Smith, Jr. They "hefted" the plates, which had "the appearance of gold." 'This is a careful statement, as you see. The men were anxious to tell the facts only as they saw things. Then, too, they "handled with our hands as many of the leaves as the said Smith has translated." That is a careful statement, also. This scene took place in the woods. There was nothing miraculous about this showing of the gold plates. It was as if a group of men were passing around among them any other object which they had never seen before. Turn now to the testimony of the Three Witnesses, and read it aloud. These three men tell us (1) that they saw the angel, (2) that they saw the golden book, (3) that they looked at the engravings on the plates, and (4) that they heard the "voice of God" declaring that the book had been translated by "the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER - 801 power of God." This was a miraculous scene, a vision. The question now is, What about the testimony of these eleven men in confirmation of Joseph Smith's story? How does it measure up to the test of a witness? L=T us look for a moment at the character and the possible motives of these men. Oliver Cowdery was a_ school teacher. Later he studied law and was a district attorney in the State of Michigan. He was, therefore, rather well educated. David Whitmer was a farmer, first in New York and then in Missouri. All his life he was respected by those who, knew him. Martin Harris was a well-to-do farmer in Palmyra, and, until he became a witness, was highly regarded by his neighbors. The Smiths and the Whitmers among these witnesses were also farmers. Hiram Page was an herb doctor. Except in their connection with Mormonism nothing has ever been said against the character of any of them. Some people, as you may know, are inclined to be imaginative. That was not so of these men. Always they were sober, industrious, Christian. There is, therefore, no reason to believe that they were making up this testimony to the existence of the gold plates. Besides, they had no motive to do so. They had nothing to gain. Indeed, they had much to lose—and did lose. For they were reviled, scorned, and persecuted because of their testimony. Although some of the eleven left the Church, not one of them ever hinted a denial of their testimony. If they had entered upon an agreement with the Prophet to say what they did, they would most certainly have broken that agreement when they became offended with him. To the very last day of their lives they persisted in saying that they were not deceived or deceiving when they spoke of the plates or the angel or the engravings. One thing more: In this case everyone may know for himself whether these men were telling the truth or not. They may know "by the power of the Holy Ghost". Motoni says that, in the Book of Mormon itself (Moroni 10:4,5). Read it. Questions 1. How do we know anything? How is it that we believe others' statements? What is the test of a witness? 2. Tell the main items in the testimony of the Eight Witnesses. In the testimony of the Three Witnesses. 3. Give as many details as you can about these Eleven. What had they to gain by telling an untruth? By telling the truth? Why, then, should they be believed? 4. How may anyone know the truth of these testimonies? Note: Map printed in July issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons. 802 - NOVEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Cathedral of Peace (Continued from page 738) "That isn't it,' he interrupted hastily. "Look at Lathams. They are as poor as church mice, but they have something we haven't. So money isn't the answer—entirely. Look at Kane Holland. He hasn't much of anything, yet he is at home any place. Everybody likes him. I wish Dad were more like him." A RUSH of hope flooded Carolyn's face. "Do you?" she asked eagerly. "Do you like him that much?" The timbre of her voice startled him. He scowled. "Yes. Why? What does he have to do with this? Why, Mother. What—are you—do you mean—" at the West's Leading School Conveniently located in Salt Lake, Ogden, Boise, Idaho Falls. For full details, clip this ad and mail it with your name and address to: EX-CEL-CIS Beauty School Main & Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah "I mean nothing," she said, keeping her voice level, "except what I asked." "Oh yes, you do!" He grabbed her arm and whirled her about, abruptly. "Look here. So-o, that's it. I've been wondering over something he said a while ago. Was I dumb! He is in love with you, isn't he?" There was no point in denial. Bob was a man and would see this with a man's eyes. She nodded. "Well! Of all the—the low down —— Who does he think he is?" -The harshness of his voice, his abrupt change in viewpoint, frightened her. "Robert, is that a crime?" "Yes, it is." His voice was thick with resentment. "I suppose he thinks all he has to do is whistle, and you will answer. No wonder he was so eager to loan me money. I wouldn't take it from him if I never got to school. I'm going up there and knock his ears back." "You just said you wished Dad were more like him." "I do, in some ways, but Dad is Dad and not to be compared in the same week with Kane Holland. Oh, good grief, Mother, be your age!" (To be continued) SALT LAKE CITY ¢ \\TEMPLE 6 BURIALCLOTHES COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN General Board Relief Society 29 BISHOP'S BUILDING radiant Bettylou: Grandma's still his "'best girl'. And no wonder! She looks so young and attractive in her smart ZCMI fashions. New Hooks of Special Jntorost GRANDEUR OF ANCIENT AMERICA—Containing 140 beautiful pictures of PreColumbian ruins and authentic account of recent discoveries........... Sssseeseseee:$1.00 A VOICE FROM THE DUST—Genet Bingham Dee 2.50 LATTER-DAY SAINT HYMNS—George D. Pyper. 2.00 LIFE OF JOSEPH F. SMITH—Joseph Fielding Smith 2.50 BOOK OF MORMON GEOGRAPHY—J. A. Washburn 2.00 NEW EDITION—GOSPEL DOCTRINE 2.00 We have thousands of choice Books for all ages, for every purpose and to fit every pocket-book. NOW is the time to select your personal Christmas Cards. Heseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 300. Amid the hardships attendant upon the building of homes and communication in a new world, there was gradually and painfully taking a form a new order of things. Not the least significant, as a forecaster of things that were to be, was the setting up in 1639 of the first printing press—a very primitive hand operated device—on this continent. And as we observe the season of Thanksgiving this year, it is stimulating to ponder the blessings that have accrued to all of us in this new and free land as a result of the setting up of that first printing press in New England, and the setting up, upon an ever-broadening horizon, of countless other presses, many times more efficient in operation, but not more unfettere3d in their right to print the thoughts of just men and to give wings to the aspirations of a free people. THE DESERET NEWS PRESS SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PRINTERS AND BOOK-BINDERS. SINCE THE DAYS OF THE PIONEERS CIETY If you want to make a good Lmpression for yourself your organization and your Church Say.. Merry Christmas to at least one of your friends anywhere in the world with a subscription to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, $1.00 per year Our circulation is just short of 50,000—A Merry Christmas from you will help us pass this mark Gndex to Advertisers Beesley Music Co.. 803 Cloverleaf… Inside Back Cover Deseret Book... Inside Back Cover Fisher Master Bakers…803 L. D. S. Business College..... 803 Mountain Fuel….. Inside Back Cover Utah Power & Light Co.... 803 ZCMI....Outside Back Cover THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MORE THAN 40,000 SUBSCRIBERS Singing Mothers and Musical Daughters will find all wants gratified here "L. D. S. Training Pays!" Hectrical Gifts Are Gifts That Please! Electrical Gifts are practical and inexpensive and are daily reminders of Christmas thoughtBusiness Training ful 5 See Your Dealer or L. D. S. Business College Utah Power & Light Co. 70 North Main Salt Lake City Ask for 'Bulletin of Information" HERE'S BREAD YOU'LL LIKE... With extra benefits When you buy Fisher's Vitamin D Bread you're sure to be satisfied. It's baked to perfection, and it contains vitamin D—the vitamin so essential for good teeth and strong bones! A Product of THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine; Enjoy Cheap Electricity Character Education Personal Development The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XXVI DECEMBER, 1939 No.12 Contents Special Features Frontispiece—Portrait of Winter.......... Vesta P. Crawford 804 Are You Living Abundantly? .......... Zina Y. C, Brown 805 Jennie Brimhall Knight................:.: President Louise Y. Robison 808 Long Live Your Poinsettia:............... Dorothy Nell Mair 820 ACTUAL 864 Fiction TOWN'S Last Gun Lella Marler Hoggan 811 A Song In The Cabin... Mary Hale Woolsey 821 Cathedral of Peace (Chapter 2) Dorothy Clapp Robinson 833 General Features ECHOES Annie Wells Cannon 829 The Relief Society And The Welfare Plan Eva W. Darger 827 Editorial: What Does Christmas Mean To You? 830 Items of Interest: Notes From the Field 832 Attention: Literary Class Leaders 832 Pan-American Good Will Tour 832 New BOOKS 832 Mormon Handicraft—Highlights Nellie O. Parker 839 Music Department: Uses of the Left Hand in Conducting Wade N Stephens 840 Emotional Content of Vocal Music 841 Lessons Theology—Paul the Missionary 842 Messages to the Home—Giving 845 Literature—"Les Miserables" 846 Social Service—Psychology of Personal Efficiency 851 Family Relationships—My Parents Do Not Know Me 856 Mission—Organization of the Church 861 Poetry Portrait of Winter Vesta P. Crawford 804 CORSAGE Beatrice Rordame Parsons 810 Christmas Fires Evelyn Wooster Viner 819 A SONG Sylvia Probst 828. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. Their old, familiar carols play, And wild and sweet The songs of peace on earth good-will to men! Twould be unafraid and see each day An interval of time as new and white As this high hill where once the brown leaves lay And waited for the windy storm and night. The beauty of the earth can never cease, And hills are loveliest in winter peace! —Vesta P. Crawford. The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVI DECEMBER, 1939 No.12 Are You Living Abundantly? By Zina Y. C. Brown Christ came that we might have life and have it more abundantly. EVERY man's goal is happiness, and the Golden Rule is the best recipe for happiness ever given to man. This recipe has two ingredients—love and service. Christ told of the first when he gave the two great commandments: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind," and "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." Love is the motivating power that impels us to unselfish service. Service is the way that leads to fulfillment and joy. And again we hear the Master's voice in answer to the query, "Who is greatest among us?" —'He that is servant of all." In His life we have the exemplification of these truths. His great and perfect love was shown by His glorious and selfless service to us, His children, both in His life and in His death. How can we walk in His steps, we who are mortal? How can we gain that fullness of life and go on to life eternal? Let me tell you a story of one who greatly loved her fellow-- men, and whose whole life was dedicated to serving them. From this story may you be given fresh impetus to serve and more perfect faith to accept His decrees. Come with me into a tiny hamlet beyond the northern borders of the United States. The nearest town and railway are sixty miles distant, the only neighbors a few Northwest Mounted Police and the friendly Redskins. After six months of living in a tent and wagon-box, our pioneer gayly moved into her new three-roomed log cabin. Here, a few months later, her baby was born without attendance of doctor or trained nurse. Though faced with the characteristic hardships of pioneer life, she did all she could to bring comfort and cheer into the lives of the little band of pioneers who had settled here in response to the call of their leader. She was nurse, doctor and the dispenser of medicines as well; few knew she paid for these herself. How many lives she ushered into this world and how many layettes she supplied I know not. Nor do I know how many she helped to prepare for burial after keeping vigil with those bereaved in their time of near despair, supporting them with the buoyancy of her faith. Did not the weary traveler hitch his horses to the gate post without need of formal welcome? Here he freely stayed for one or many nights. Some stayed on indefinitely, and 806 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE many ailing and disheartened were nursed back to health and new hope under her roof. I have vivid recollections of her selfless services to the youth of the now growing community. The log house soon assumed the dignity of a five-roomed dwelling, all white without and glowing within. The whole place radiated her cheerful personality, and its quaint beauty was literally the workmanship of her own hands. 'Pictures of long summer evenings come flooding back to me: I can see that little cottage as the magnet that drew everyone to her home. The ornate, hanging lamp sends its mellow rays through the wide-open door, and friends are trooping down the path between the wild-rose hedge that borders the dear old-fashioned flower gardens. All are greeted with a glowing smile and warm handclasp. Soon voices rise in sweet old songs. The sweet tones of the old reed organ are blended with happy voices of youth, the prattle of little children, and the low tones of those older grown. Music, readings and games are interrupted only by the passing of good homemade ice cream and cake. All present contribute to the evening's wholesome fun. The gay laughter and witty repartee give evidence of glad hearts in real accord. These parties were like talent contests of the present. For latent tal-' ent was discovered and encouraged. Out of this talent grew glee clubs, bands, and dramatic groups. Will anything ever equal in thrills and excitement the "home dramatics"! No unlettered youth ever had a better coach than was she. I can still see her plodding through the snow to attend rehearsals. The first performance saw her house practically stripped of all portable furnishings; the old dining table was piled high with costumes which she had designed and helped to make from gay "nothings". Bands of fleecy cotton marked with charcoal made elegant ermine, and the brass top from the hanging lamp crowned many a stage monarch of that long ago. A heavenly peace steals into my heart as I recall the cottage and special meetings held in her hallowed parlor. This room served as bedroom, too. The people were seated on the bed, elegant in its silk and wool "log-cabin" cover, and on all the available chairs; even the kitchen wash-bench, covered for such occasions, was used as a seat. The hymns, the "gifts of-the spirit" and the words of deep conviction of the Gospel's truth stirred young hearts to the depths. On one such occasion the presence of a Heavenly Choir was felt and gave to us a glimpse of the joy that comes to those who are truly in the Master's service. How she found time for the love and devotion that she lavished on her own family is still a mystery to me. Her loyal and constant support of her husband in his responsible position, her tender care of him in the home and the honor shown him as the head of that home were never failing. She heard her children's prayers and tucked them in at night. Bedtime hour was the story hour; when there was company present, she excused herself that she might not miss this ritual with her own. Marvelous these stories were, with knights in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 807 armor riding through them and princesses galore. The tales she spun from her own fertile brain were best loved of all. The latter always left her children armed for doing noble deeds. The long, cold winters were never dreary, for there were always good books—a bookcase filled with volumes chosen by her for her children and their friends. Even the case was made by her from packing boxes and stained, varnished and hung with crimson curtains. Her children and their friends sat with her near the parlor stove while she read from Dickens or Alcott or showed them copies of famous paintings. She loved the beautiful in all its forms. As she sat in the old buggy by her husband's side as the family jogged home from a meeting just attended, she would often touch his arm and say, "Look, Papa, the flowers." 'That was always a signal for him to draw rein and let the children alight. Each would come back soon with arms laden with wild flowers rich in color and perfume. Happy days! Hours and years were made sweet with the gifts unconsciously given by one who lived abundantly. She had a fullness of life. I know that she had. Her humble board was graced by the noble of the earth— the honored and loved leaders of the Church and many of the great of her adopted country who departed with a changed attitude toward the Church and its people. The humblest were as welcome as the socalled great and were as graciously received. As her life's pattern wove itself to completion, it was beautiful to see. 'To the last, her love for all of God's children, both living and dead, filled her days with sweetness and with love returned. I think the angels must have marveled at the throngs who came to meet her at that Opened Door as she passed to Life Eternal. Greatly blessed in her gift of uniting everyone in the spirit of brotherhood, which is such an important phase of the Gospel of Christ, the humble and the great of two great nations mourned her passing—the passing of a friend. She, unconsciously great, had gained her life by losing it in loving service to mankind. Her life gives increased courage and faith and is an added proof that circumstance and station are no bar to living abundantly. Oh, dear mothers, near and far, are we letting escape great opportunities by which we may serve Him? Are our days warped and unlighted by waste of time and lack of vision, or is each day filled with loving service and lofty thoughts? We are living in the "fullness of times", born with an heritage beyond price. We can pay for this only in the coin of love. This increases as it is given and returns a thousand-fold to bless our years. Let us catch and retain this true Christmas spirit — the Christ-like love—that it may fill our hearts now and throughout all our days. We shall then live abundantly. Jennie Brimhall Knight By President Louise Y. Robison COUNTING life in events, rather than in years, it seems that I have always known Jennie Brimhall Knight; yet, I had not met her before I voted to sustain her, April 1, 1921, as First Counselor to Clarissa S. Williams, General President of the Relief Society. That was a memorable experience —meeting two of the most lovable women I have ever known and for the first time in my life going to the office of the First Presidency. President Grant greeted us cordially. He had been acquainted with President Williams since early childhood; he knew Mrs. Knight and had high regard for her father's family as well as for her husband and his family, but for a few moments he could not place me. Those were embarrassing moments until he recalled my parents, my husband and his family; he most graciously traced genealogy far and wide and put me at ease by laughingly saying we were relatives. It was in that moment of embarrassment that Mrs. Knight looked at me with those understanding, expressive eyes, and I felt secure and at peace—she was my friend. This friendship has grown more precious with the years, for she has that rare quality of friendship which is vitalized by doing and growing, and she has the ability to inspire her friends to improve with her. As First Counselor to Mrs. Williams during the seven and a half years of her presidency, Mrs. Knight was loyal, competent and dependable. Regular Executive and Board meetings were held each week, with often an extra session, but the weather was never too cold to keep her from coming all the way from Provo to be in attendance. Her sound judgment, her sympathetic understanding of human needs and her untiring devotion to Relief Society was a great strength to President Williams who loved her dearly. 'The bond of affection between these two great women was beautiful to see. President Williams' voice was a real caress when she spoke the name "Jennie". In describing success, someone has said: "If the passing years have left you in their flight, new stores of wisdom, kindliness, tolerance, patience—that is success." Jennie B. Knight has all these virtues—and more. She has added love and in return is loved by all who have been privileged to know her. She has faith and a sincere testimony of the truthfulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Her faith has strengthened the testimony of others. Few women have had the wide opportunity for service which Mrs. Knight has had, and few have been so well prepared for that service. Jennie Brimhall and Inez Knight were the first lady missionaries, called and sent as such, to a foreign country. In addition to this experience, Mrs. Knight has visited most of the stakes and many wards and missions as General Board officer and member. It is a pleasure to visit a Relief Society after she has held a conference or convention. People invariably speak lovingly of her wis- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 809 JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT dom, her practical advice and her ability to adjust to any situation. Mrs. Knight graduated from the Brigham Young University with high honors. Later, she taught in the Training School of her beloved B. Y. U. And also served as Dean of Women. She is a life member of the National Council of Women. A few of the outstanding activities which have claimed her attention are: Stake 810 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE President Y. W. M. I. A. Of Taylor Stake; Stake President Y. W. M. I. A. Of Utah Stake; Relief Society Board Member, Utah Stake; Governor Bamberger's representative at a peace conference in Philadelphia; Vice President State Council of Defense, Woman's Division, and a representative of the Council in Washington, D. C.; representative of the Relief Society at conventions of the National Council of Women upon several occasions, and as a delegate to the Quinquennial in Washington, D. C. She became acquainted with many noted foreign women. She was also a delegate to National Conferences of Social Workers of the United States. _ With all of these interests—and many more—Jennie B. Knight is a model homemaker, an ideal wife and mother, an hospitable hostess and a trusted friend. On January 18, 1899, Jennie Brimhall was married to Jesse William Knight who has whole-heartedly assisted his wife in all of her activities. Their two sons, Richard and Phillip, are married, and three adorable grandchildren now claim loving attention. One wonders how a person can have so many virtues and abilities, how being gracious and doing right come, apparently, so easy. Back of most people with these great gifts are fine, wise parents. Jennie Brimhall was very fortunate in being born into the home of Dr. George H. Brimhall and Alsina E. Wilkins Brimhall. Many instances of character training in Jennie's young life are delightfully told by Inez Knight Allen in a tribute to "Jennie B." in the November, 1928 issue of the Relief Society Magazine. After eighteen years of loyal, devoted service to Relief Society as First Counselor to President Williams and member of the General Board of Relief Society, Mrs. Knight has asked for her release. President Grant approves of her request, and each member of the General Board reluctantly acquiesce. The name of Jennie Brimhall Knight will be lovingly remembered in thousands of homes of Relief Society women. Their good wishes and their earnest prayers for her happiness will ever follow her. She has proven the Prophet Micah's interpretation of real service: "Only to do justly and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God." RS CORSAGE Fair Orchid, in your lavender and lace, Born of time, and destined for a space To rest upon her shoulder, In all grace, I send you now To her I love, And beg you, with your sweetness trace The pattern of my love across her shining face. —Beatrice Rordame Parsons. The Last Line By Lella Marler Hoggan MARTHA drew a hairpin from the soft graying knot of hair at the nape of her neck and tipped open the thin envelope that the postman had delivered. She inspected its contents carefully. "Merciful heavens!" she gasped, 'It can't be so. There must be some mistake." Her fingers trembled as she removed her glasses, wiped them on the hem of her crisp apron, and again examined the letter. It was her name all right and the proper address. It seemed impossible, but there it was in plain words that artyone could read. The clock on the mantel struck ten. The autumn sunshine was streaming across her kitchen table. The air was heavy with the odor of sweet spices from the kettle of apple butter simmering on the stove. Yes, her senses confirmed the fact that she was awake and in her right mind. She really had won one hundred dollars for the last line of a limerick. She could hardly wait to tell the good news to some one. But Sam had gone to the mountains hunting with some of his friends and would not be back for another week, and their daughter and three sons all lived in distant towns. It would not be exactly kind to be babbling of her prosperity to her neighbors. Widow Johnson never had any money for luxuries. And sour old Lem Flinders, the war veteran, did not want to hear of anyone's good fortune while he was hobbling about in penury waiting for the adjustment on his lapsed life insurance. No, she would wait until Sam got back to break the glad news. So she put the check in her gray silk purse and slipped it under Sam's pillow on their bed. Several times during the day she went in and opened the purse to make sure the check was still there. One hundred dollars was a lot of money to spend just as one pleased. What would she do with it? All through the years she had treasured in her heart unfinished dreams and plans that for lack of a few dollars were still waiting to be completed. What a thrilling experience it would be to bring about a realization of some of these longhoped-for things. DURING the next few days Martha spent hours planning, figuring, measuring. She made a trip to town where she priced materials, matched colors, and wrote down lists of suggestive purchases. Then one morning just as she opened her eyes, it came to her like a flash. Why hadn't she thought of it long ago? Why not use the money for Christmas? One hundred dollars for Christmas! It would be magic. It would be more than magic. Why it would be the dream of a lifetime come true. Her thoughts ran riot. 'There was Sam and the children and grandchildren and friends to be made glad. Oh it would be a glorious adventure, nothing less. Out of all her planning, however, she did not make a single purchase. And when Sam reached home at the end of the week she had not even 812 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cashed the check. Sam was tired, dusty and bewhiskered, and his usual even temper was somewhat ruffled. "Cold as blazes in the mountains," he growled, "and not even so much as a deer track in sight." But oh, it was good to have him home again, thought Martha. He soon had his chores finished and was shaved, bathed and into clean clothes. The hot appetizing meal was ready for the table, and he noticed that his plate was turned down. 'Tired as he was, his curiosity was at once aroused. It had been a family custom throughout the years to save the little happy surprises for meal time. It might be a gift or a joke or some cheerful message that was concealed under one or more of the plates, but no one lifted his plate until after grace was said. And so after they had offered thanks for the food, Sam's twinkling eyes met Martha's animated gaze across the steaming food. With his hand on his plate he waited. "What'll you bet I can't guess the first time?" he bantered. "IT don't gamble," her face was beaming, "but you'll not guess this time, not even in a dozen guesses." "Dried venison," was Sam's hazard. "It must be dried venison considerin' the luck I had on the huntin'" trip." He lifted his plate, and the letter addressed to Martha was revealed. He held it up questioningly. "Read it," she urged. "A hundred dollars! A hundred dollars!" he kept repeating, after he had read the letter. "Why glory be, Marthy, you've saved the farm!" "What do you mean 'saved the farm'?" "Why the taxes, Marthy, the taxes. 'This will make our fall payment and tide us over till we can sell the hay or the grain." All of the joy went out of Martha's face, just as if an eraser had rubbed off every vestige of gladness. "Oh yes, the taxes... To be sure." Always there was the taxes. Why hadn't she remembered? Without a word she went to the small desk in the living room and endorsed the check and passed it to her grateful husband, but her attempt at cheerfulness during the remainder of the meal was a dismal failure. She was relieved when Sam finished eating and went into the living room to glance through the newspapers that had come while he was away. Being alone would give her a chance to think things over and to adjust her mind to her changed financial situation. Sam, tired from his trip, fell asleep in his chair before he had finished the first paper. Martha aroused him patiently, and without ceremony he undressed and tumbled into bed. He looked so tired and deserving, she observed. Soon his regular heavy breathing echoed through the quiet rooms. WHEN Martha retired, she slept fitfully. Once she awakened with a start and reached for the gray silk purse. Her hand touched Sam's cheek, and then she remembered. She had companioned with the precious check for so many days that it brought an empty feeling to her heart to know that it was gone. It was like losing a friend. She recalled gloomily how time and again in the past they had saved money for some special purpose, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 813 then a crop failure from some cause or another had occurred, and their precious savings had gone to pay the taxes. The hailstorm had taken the grain in the field the same fall they were married, making it impossible for them to go on a honeymoon trip. The money they had saved for the trip had to go for taxes. That was more than forty years ago, and they were still waiting for that honeymoon tour. Not that they needed such a trip, far from it; their marriage had been one long honeymoon. But she could not help recalling that the tax payments had _ caused many a heartache. She tried to put the whole sorry thought of it out of her mind, hut over and over like a rhythmic chant of bitterness and disappointment the words repeated themselves, "a hundred dollars for taxes—the Christmas money for taxes", until finally she could stand it no longer. Slipping out of bed, she tiptoed into the kitchen, put on a robe and some house shoes and walked out on the porch. Everything was so silent as she stood there in the white moonlight and gazed across the broad acres. The fields of stubble and the empty trees told of the garnered harvest. The stack of hay back of the barn, grain in the granary, boxes of red and yellow apples, and long shelves of bottled fruit and vegetables in the cellar, attested the summer's labor and the winter's store. They had spent practically all of their married life here. Sam had helped to build the house, and they had moved in just a few weeks before Diana was born. It seemed only yesterday that they had packed up and left his father and mother at the old ranch house up in the valley. And yet Diana's children were growing up now. Why Bonny Lou, Diana's daughter, was married last year. The greatest joys of their lives centered here. The rooms of the old home were hallowed with a wealth of sacred memories. Every foot of the land bore the marks of Sam's toil-worn hands. The quiet beauty, the soft stillness of the night, soothed and comforted Martha. It brought to her an acute realization of the fact that this farm home was something that money could not buy. No price was too great to save it for themselves and for the ones who would come after them. It was more than a farm—it was a sanctuary. Awed and grateful, she went back to her bed. In the darkness of the quiet room a deep content carried her into untroubled slumber. THE next morning she began all over again to make her plans for Christmas. 'This time she would plan a Christmas without money. She was not going to let a paltry hundred dollars spoil the most blessed day of the whole year. One did not need money to commemorate Christmas—at least not much. She would dip deep into her own life. Surely she had garnered treasures enough to share with others for one year. She would make this one of the most beautiful Christmas seasons they had ever known. Weeks went by, and cold autumn skies were clouded with a flurry of snowflakes as winter made its appearance. Soon the fields were covered with a soft mantle, undulating drifts swung out along the foothills, 814 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and the streams were locked in ice. Martha did dip deep, even as she had promised herself. In memory she went back into the years, and out of the hallowed drama of the past she materialized many fleeting memories: Recipes of old favorite home dishes, booklets containing the children's pictures and their funny little sayings and doings, maxims and slogans that had been household jokes during the years, choice poems, bits of humor and philosophy, souvenirs they had loved and treasured. Then there were relics and heirlooms of value and beauty. Why not pass some of them on to the children this year? Sam gave his enthusiastic approval and helped Martha to pack the boxes. They included in each box cartons of home-grown popcorn and dried sweet corn, bottles of crystal clear honey, and bright luscious apples. When they began addressing the boxes and parcels, they were puzzled as to where they should send Bonny Lou's remembrance. "We had better send it with Diana's," was Martha's decision. "I think Bonny Lou and Bob plan on getting home for Christmas." "Well, if they're not already there, they'll never make it for Christmas, unless they go around, and that means an extra hundred miles. No one has tackled the pass since the big storm last week." "Well, let us hope that they're already there." "But if they should be too late to get through the pass, Marthy, don't you suppose Bob would bring Bonny Lou here?" "Yes, I'm sure he would. But Sam, suppose they should get caught in the storm out in the mountains. Why if anything should happen to that darling girl—"' Martha's eyes filled with tears, and she choked up unable to say more. "Nothin's goin' to happen to her, Marthy. The road is not open, so they'll not be startin' through the pass. Don't you worry." "Sometimes I wonder if I don't love that girl too much," and she wiped her eyes gently. "Now Id like you to tell me just how a person would go about it to love an only granddaughter too much." "She's sure got a big place in our hearts, Sam." They decided to send Bonny Lou's parcel with Diana's things. When the boxes were ready, Sam took them to the post office. It brought a-feeling of deep satisfaction to both of them to have everything in the mail a week before Christmas. THE very morning before the eventful day, when Martha came into the kitchen to prepare breakfast, she found that Sam had already set the table, and her plate was turned down. "Now Sam Hanford, what are you up to?" she demanded in assumed earnestness. "Not a thing, Marthy," and Sam's expression became painfully solemn. ' As she came near the table, he hurried to warn her, "Now no fair peekin'; you know we always made the children wait." "Of course I'm not peeking, but I'm sure wondering what prank you're playing on me." "Marthy, I'm surprised!" and the twinkle in Sam's eyes belied his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 815 gravity. "Whoever heard of me playin' a prank on you?" Martha prepared the breakfast in record time. She really was curious to know why Sam had turned her plate down. After the regular devotion was over, she quietly lifted — her plate. "Sam, why Sam, where did this come from?" and she stared in wonder at a stack of crisp ten-dollar bills. She was too surprised to remember to count them until he explained that he was just paying back the loan for the taxes. "You know very well that was not a loan, Sam. The taxes are as much my obligation as yours." "T know, but the sheep man paid me for the use of the field yesterday. And I just said to myself, 'It's a dern poor farm that can't pay its own keep.' So there it is. Besides, we couldn't use your money to pay the taxes with. That's professional money. That's money for literachoor." She wanted to answer Sam's merriment with some joke, but her eyes filled with tears; she did not trust her voice to reply. When Sam had finished eating and had left the room, she carefully folded up the ten ten-dollar bills and put them into the gray silk purse.. It was a strange world, she mused. Here she was with one hundred dollars for Christmas and her gifts already wrapped and mailed. She recalled some of the lean Christmas seasons when the children were home. Oh, what a blessing it would have been to have had the money then. Yet, those lean Christmases were the sweetest ones in her memory, for out of full hearts they had brought into their home the real spirit of the season. It was at one of these times that Sam had said to her, "Never mind, Marthy, if we can't buy presents. Its the gifts of the heart that count, and you've been givin' us them in full measure, all through the year." AS Martha went about her morning's work, the puzzled expression on her face plainly showed that she had a problem to solve. She finally decided that her needy neighbors were her first consideration. So when the noon meal was over, she put on her warm wraps and made her way across the fields to their homes. Alice Johnson came running out to meet her, her face alight with good news. "My, you look happy, Alice." Martha's arm went around the slender girl's shoulders, "You look as if Santa Claus might have. Been here already." "Oh, he has, Mrs. Hanford, he surely has. Mother's check for the turkeys came day before yesterday. We should have had it long ago, only it was delayed in the mail because of the Christmas rush. But it's here now, and we're all so happy we're just dancing for joy." Widow Johnson's face was as animated as Alice's. Christmas preparations were nearly completed. The household was vibrant with a spirit of gladness. When Martha left them a half hour later, her heart was singing, too. She stumbled along the half obliterated path that led to Lem Flinders' cabin. Rapping lightly on his door she waited, expecting to hear a glum call for her to enter. To her surprise, the door swung wide, and 816 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Lem, with a beaming countenance, welcomed her warmly. "Well," he announced, when she was seated, "the impossible has at last come to pass. They've looked up my record in Washington and everything's O. K. I'm going to get my insurance. In fact, I've already got some of the money that was past due." "Tm certainly glad to hear the ood news, Lem," and Martha's Fright smile confirmed her pleasure. She rejoiced to note that his face shone with contentment and satisfaction. It was good to know that the old man had at last found peace of mind. It was not far from Lem's cabin to Molly Gregory's little home where Martha found Molly singing lustily as she applied her industrious fingers and a wooden hook to the task of hooking a bright colored Tug. "It's glad I am to be seein' you, Marthy," announced Molly, opening the door wide in welcome. "Such a good fortune has befallen me that I am wantin' that my neighbors should hear of it, but with the paths so deep and slippery and me so uncertain on my feet I dare not venture out to be tellin' them." "I’m sure I’ll be as happy to hear the good news as you will be to tell it," was Martha's assurance. "Your little room is fairly singing with good cheer." "Good cheer it is indeed, Marthy, and no one knows better than you of the braided rugs I've been at this live-long winter. Well, I've sold 'em, and for a handsome price at that. Why I'm that happy that I can't stop singin', J honestly sometimes wonder if it's a dream or if it's reality." MOLLY'S happy laughter was good to hear. It was still ringing in Martha's ears when she reached home. Removing her wraps, she stirred the fire to a bright blaze and sat down in the big easy chair before the hearth. She opened her small gray purse and taking out the roll of new bills smoothed them one by one across her knee. "I had so hoped," she mused, "that they would bring Christmas cheer to some one, but they don't seem to be needed at all." She rolled them up and put them back into the purse. Suddenly the bills in the little gray bag seemed to have lost their value. She laid her purse on the table and reached for her knitting, as Sam sauntered into the room. With his back to the fire, he warmed his hands while his kind eyes looked lovingly across at Martha. "Well, Marthy, Christmas is nearly over." "How do you figure that, Sam, when it doesn't even begin until tomorrow?" "Oh, I mean the makin' ready for it." "Oh, to be sure, and I've enjoyed it this year, too." The resignation in her voice brought a twinkle to Sam's eyes, which was lost to Martha as she plied her needles industriously. "Yes," he mused, "it's comforting to have plenty of money for a day like Christmas." She knew what was coming and did not reply, but her needles clicked faster than ever. "Well, Marthy," and his voice was pathetically serious, "it's a dad- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 817 burned shame to be left with a hundred dollars on your hands and Christmas all but over. But I wouldn't feel too bad about it if I was you. You might be able to buy yourself a new spring outfit." "Yes, you can just see me spending a hundred dollars for a new spring outfit, now can't you, Sam?" "Well, you could do a lot worse." "Yes, and I could do a lot better." "Just what, for instance?" "Well, I haven't decided yet." "Now that's just the trouble, Marthy. That's what comes of getting yourself a pocketful of professional money. Plain folks like you and me shouldn't be turnin' professional at our age. It's not practical. We don't know how to use easy money, then we're left with a lot of it on our hands and nothing to spend it for." "Goodness me, Sam, I wish you'd be quiet." "Quiet? Why it's so still around here now you could hear a pin drop. Come on, let's hang up our stockin's." Martha tossed her work on the table. There was no use trying to knit; she was dropping stitches. "Sam Hanford, aren't you ever going to grow up?" "IT hope not," and his smile met hers. "Seriously, Marthy, I've thought of a way we could spend the hundred dollars." "What way?" There was eagerness in her voice. "We've been waitin' a long time for our honeymoon trip," he took her hand tenderly in both of his, "why can't we take it now on your hundred dollars?" "Where could we go on a hundred dollars?" "Well, with a little I could put with it from the sale of the hay we could go down south, down to the sea. It would be great, Marthy— blue skies and sunny beaches, with the waves rollin' in, and the song of the sea comin' to us out of the white spray. There would be warm breezes and palm trees and roses. Think of it, Marthy, roses in December." "Tam thinking of it, Sam. It had never come to me that we could use the money that way." "Why it's what we've been workin' for and waitin' for these many years. That's what the money must have been saved for." "Well, we'll see. We don't want to make ourselves any promises we'll not be able to keep." A PATH of sunshine lay across the floor as Martha entered her kitchen on Christmas morning. From the shining stove the teakettle hummed gleefully. "Merry Christmas, Marthy!"' Sam called cheerily. "The weather man is sure out in his best bib and tuck this mornin', ain't he?" "He certainly is.' Martha's face shone with a quiet joy, and her voice was tender with emotion. "I wish you a merry Christmas, Sam." "Thanks, Marthy." He reached over and kissed her as he went into the living room with coal and kindling for the fire. She followed him, and while he busied himself at the fireplace, she began looking over the Christmas parcels and cards and letters that she had previously arranged on the big table. There 818 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was a bright array of gay wrappings and happy messages. "There's no card or anything here from Bonny Lou." Martha's voice betrayed her anxiety. "May be in with Diana's parcel; open it, and we'll see." Sam adjusted the fuel in the grate and brushed the dust from his hands. The glowing fire soon lent its cheer to the big room. Hearing some one approach, he opened the door. A telegraph messenger greeted him cheerily. "Sign right here," the boy directed. Sam's fingers trembled as he affixed his signature. To Sam and Martha there was always something ominous about a telegram. But this one was different. A flaming poinsettia and cheery Christmas streamers met their gaze as they scanned the sheet anxiously. "Lovely boy born Christmas Eve stop Mother and baby doing fine stop—" "Hooray for Bonny Lou and Bob! Think of it, Marthy, you're a greatgrandmother," and Sam embraced her and kissed her excitedly. "Hold on a minute, Sam, let me see that telegram." "Well, look at it. It says they're goin' to call him Sam—Samuel Robert Hallaway more'n likely. Now ain't that a high-soundin' name?" and he waltzed Martha around the room. "That's not what I'm thinking of. Look here!" Again they bent over the paper. "It says Hanford Ranch. Sam, they didn't make it through the pass. They're at the ranch." "Yes, they must be at the ranch. They must have phoned that message in from Riley's place. But this says everything's all right." "What in the world will they do at that old ranch house?" Martha's brow was wrinkled with misgiving. "Now don't be runnin' down the ranch house, Marthy. I was born there myself, and it's still the best lookin' house in that neck of the woods." "But it's been empty for months. Unless Mrs. Riley has fixed it up, it's just impossible. 'There's no rugs or curtains or bedding or anything— just the bare furniture." "Well," mused Sam, scratching his chin, "a hundred dollars is a hundred dollars in any man's Janguage. I see your money takin' wings mighty fast, Marthy. Also, I see a certain sunny beach slowly fadin' from view, while the song of the sea is growin' fainter and fainter." "Sam, will you stop your mooning around and help me to get things ready? We're going to Bonny Lou. You know just as well as I do that nothing could drag you away to any warm southern beach while Bonny Lou's up at the ranch house with that new baby." "Very well, what can I do?" "Bring me a basket from the basement, please, and I'll pack the lunch while you get the car ready." "In a few minutes Sam was back with the basket. He had remembered to bring up some large red apples and bottles of cranberries, sweet pickles, and pears. Then he hurried out to the garage. Martha was rushing from kitchen to pantry. She adjusted linen napkins between her best china dinner - plates as she fitted them into one end of the basket. She kept counting the various articles on her fingers RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 819 to make sure that nothing was forgotten. "The old jitney's in good shape," Sam announced, as he came back to the kitchen. "If the roads are open, we ought to be able to make it in pretty good time." "If we get started right away, we'll be there in time for dinner with Bob and Bonny Lou, even if she does have to eat in bed propped up with pillows. We're taking the turkey and pudding and everything," Martha informed him. "I can just see how their faces will light up when we come tiptoeing in." "Bonny Lou will likely be in Mother's bedroom," Sam was serious, "and maybe the little feller will be in the old wooden cradle that. Father made for me." "Oh, it is going to be a great trip, Sam, across the foothills and up the valley, with that snow shining all over everything like a million diamonds." Sam sat down before the fire, but he made no reply. "You want to go, don't you, Sam?" 'There was solicitude in Martha's voice. "You haven't heard me say any- -thing about not goin' have you?" "No, but you don't seem very enthusiastic about it." "Who would be? After waitin' for forty years to go on a honeymoon to the sunny south, who would be enthusiastic about a trip back to the old ranch through snow crotch-deep toa tall Injun? I'm askin' you, Marthy, do you call that romance?" "I’ll say I call that romance. I know you don't mean a word you're saying, Sam, but just the same I'd like to remind you that the old ranch is the place where we. First met and where we were married and spent our honeymoon. Besides, Bonny Lou is there. And if there wasn't a stick of furniture in the place it would still be romance, if Bonny Lou was there." Sam chuckled softly. Martha looked up from the lunch basket, suddenly realizing that she was getting sentimental. An understanding smile passed between them. "Don't forget little Sammy," and his voice was as gentle as the softly humming kettle on the stove, "it ain't every couple, Marthy, that can have a bran' new great-grandchild to go to on Christmas mornin'." CHRISTMAS FIRES By Evelyn Wooster Viner When the Yule log on the fire bums With wintry winds outside, It seems an easy thing to say, " Tis well whate'er betide." When wintry winds are in our hearts, The hearth fire but a spark, And Yuletide joy seems far away, Then life indeed is dark. Oh! Let us hold the Christmas cheer All the long year 'round That through the world good will and joy May bountifully abound. Long Live Your Poinsettia By Dorothy Nell Mair THE floral shops are filled at Christmas time with thousands of potted poinsettias that will find their way into just as many homes. Because of the beautiful sentiment each plant expresses, we wish to preserve its loveliness as long as possible. There is something very alluring about the flaming red tongues, the leaves surrounding the inconspicuous flower, that makes us reluctant to see them droop and fall. 'They need not perish too soon. A little proper handling will preserve them for weeks after Christmas Day has faded with the old year. Poinsettias are touchy. Like hollyhocks and poppies, they are almost too perishable to be good cut flowers. When the stems are cut, they bleed freely. In the days before potted plants became popular as gifts and poinsettias were used as cut flowers, the stems were charred or dipped into boiling water to seal the ends and to prevent the milky sap from draining too quickly. They were then placed into deep water of room temperature and allowed to soak for several hours before being arranged into bouquets. An important thing to remember for any cut flowers included in your Christmas bouquet is to have the water in which they are to be placed of room temperature rather than ice cold. Water too cold will chill and shock the flowers. Your potted poinsettias are much more easily taken care of than those "that are cut, but even so, they can still be called temperamental. It is well to remember that they are tropical and semi-tropical shrubs, natives: of Mexico, introduced into the United States in 1828. The actual flower is what appears to be the yellow center, and the red tongues or bracts that surround it are leaves, not petals. These leaves are the most attractive part of the plant and the reason we admire it. In the garden, where the roots have room for expansion, plants grow to a height of fifteen feet and more. The potted shrub is considerably dwarfed. Poinsettia roots rebel immediately at extremes of dryness or moisture; soil should be kept damp but not soggy. Temperature is of vital consideration and should be held at sixty-five or seventy degrees. A slight chill will cause the red bracts and green leaves to fall. If you awaken some morning to find your poinsettia looking sick, it has probably been chilled during the night when the temperature of (Continued on page 876) A Song In The Cabin By Maryhale Woolsey THERE was a streak of gold in the western sky, mirrored thinly in the gray lake across the valley. The clouds overhead hung cold and threatening, lower than an hour ago; against them the rims of the mountains were less sharply defined. It would storm before morning, Libbeth told herself. And it would be snow, if she did not mistake this clean nippy tang of the air. Snow! Winter at hand again! Well, it was nearly December; the fall had been beautiful. Libbeth sighed, thinking of another winter in the cabin—the new house so nearly ready, yet they had to wait! Drawing her dark warm shawl closer about her shoulders, she leaned against the side of the cabin and turned her eyes from the west to the north where, a little higher up the hill slope, the new house stood. It had a good stone foundation, walls of adobe, thick and snug, bright shingled roof, a small porch by the front door and a lean-to entrance at the back. Four big rooms there would be, with space for two more "some day" up under the gables—such a comforting thought after the years in a two-tiny-rooms cabin! Libbeth stretched out her arms, as if the very thought of spaciousness impelled her to reach out and ease-cramped muscles. It had been such a long time in the cabin. So many reverses had come, as if placed in their way to try them further—as if they had not borne trial enough for their devotion to the Gospel, even before coming here. One loss after another, disappointment after ment! It didn't do much good to remind herself that many of the brethren and sisters who were her neighbors had suffered even more. Sister Abbie Hemmer, for instance, who had come in the early fifties, had known many hardships which Libbeth and Arden had not known, coming as they had over a now well established route almost free of such dangers as had confronted the earlier pioneers. No, thinking of that didn't do Libbeth—in this mood—much good. It seemed only to intensify that rebellious questioning within her. Was it really worth the while, the sacrifices, the struggles, the giving up of comforts, pleasantries and niceties of living such as she had formerly known? Back home in Ohio there were still the ease and loveliness she had grown up in... Was it possible that less than seven years ago she had been that happy, carefree girl she now remembered so wistfully? Seven years— an incredibly short time to have contained such an eternity of experiences! Oh, she was tired of toil and anxiety and an unending caravan of deprivations, tired of two small rooms in a cabin; tired of odors of food cooking on a broken stove, smell of wash-suds, fresh milk and new cheese, of ripened fruit demanding attention.... Libbeth caught herself up sharply. She wouldn't think of these things as being always so disagreeable as they had been recently. Ardisappoint- 822 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE den would be deeply grieved if he should learn the things that were in her heart. Arden had no regrets for his sacrifices, and he, too, had given up much. It had seemed little enough, at first—a privilege to give up home, friends, position, even family, for the sake of the Gospel. Of all their intimate circle, they two only had been converted to Mormonism. The sentiment of their community had been bitterly antagonistic. Jervis Mead, Libbeth's father, had tempestuously opposed Libbeth's and Arden's interest in the Mormons: "Tf you join them," he had said, "T'll want never to lay eyes on either of you again. Nor shall your mother, if I can help it..." So it had been. Once, Libbeth believed, her mother had made an effort to see her. Coming home one evening, she thought she detected a faint fragrance in the room, a perfume Alice Mead always wore. Her mother had been there; perhaps she would come again... But she had not come again. Soon thereafter, Arden and Libbeth had come West to the city of the Saints. They would have a new home there, in the thriving new community; they would find opportunities among others who shared the same beliefs, the same ideals. Almost from the first, disappointment had been: their lot. One of their four horses died mysteriously; another Arden had lent to a fellowtraveler who had a similar misfortune. It had been necessary to lighten their load, so they had stored part of their furniture at Fort Laramie. Libbeth's cabinet organ had been among these, and there had never been money to spare to bring it on. She missed the organ particularly; she had loved her music. Would she ever be able to play again, she wondered? Her fingers were growing stiff from lack of practice and from the hardening toil. THE streak of gold was fading fast, the shadows deepening. Her ear caught the sound of wagon wheels approaching. Little Ardena heard them, too, and ran down the hill to meet her father and ride home on top of his load of wood. Libbeth's heart lifted somewhat, as it always did at his coming, as if just his nearness shifted some of her burdens onto his stronger shoulders. She felt almost abused when Arden, after supper, went out with a lantern to hitch up the horses again. "T have to go to town," he said. Shortly, she thought, as if he feared she might ask questions. "I'm... Making home unpleasant for him. If I lose him, too, if his love should grow cold... I could not bear it. And I should deserve it, too, for my moods and discontent. What shall I, what can I, do?" She put the babies to bed, silently. Little Joey was sound asleep in his cradle, and Ardena in her little bed was on the border of slumberland when Arden came home. He drove close to the cabin door, and curious, she opened it... To see him and a man she did not know lifting something tall and heavy from the wagon to the ground. She moved aside as they carried it through the doorway. "Arden! It's not—oh, Arden! The organ!" she cried, and stood, dumb with surprise, while they tugged and pushed and lifted until it stood against the farther wall. The stranger RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 823 left, with a nod and smile to Libbeth as he passed her. "Oh, Arden!" Libbeth went over and stood stroking the smooth dark wood of the cabinet. "How — when?" "Your Christmas present, Libbie," Arden said. "It's early, but I was afraid the roads might delay it, later." Ardena had roused and climbed out of bed. In her small long gown she stood wonderingly watching. Arden took her up into his arms. "Might we have a song, do you think?" he said to Libbeth, and his voice was wistful. "It's been so long... A mighty long time since I heard you singing, honey." A flood of self-accusation rushed over her. While she had been moping, he had been planning this great surprise for her! "Oh, yes! Yes, of course!" she cried. "Only... I'm so surprised I can hardly talk — let alone sing! Of course I will!" Eagerly, she started to raise the cover and was puzzled to find it resisting. She pushed, pulled, pushed again, her puzzlement changing to alarm. Maybe the wood had warped... Though it looked all tight.... Anxiously, she thrust her hand upward inside the cover, feeling carefully underneath for anything that might be the cause of the trouble. She caught her breath with relief as she found it—the corner of a thick envelope protruding from the back. With a little difficulty she drew it forth. With her first glance at the penciled writing on its face, she gasped and grew faint. Arden put < arm quickly around her to steady er. "I'm all right, dear. I just felt startled. 'This is Mother's writing." "Your mother's?" Arden repeated. "But—why, Libbeth!" The two stood staring, unbelieving. For Libbeth had drawn forth the contents of the envelope, and in her hand was a packet of greenbacks and a brief note, which presently she read wonderingly: "My darling daughter: "T have heard that you are going West. I dare not try to see you; you know how our friends feel about you, and your father and I do not care to risk their disfavor by being friendly to any Mormons. "But I want you to have this money. It is my own, and I think even your father would not mind too much your having it, though he would never admit this; you know he seldom retracts anything he has said. I intend to come to your house when you are away and leave this where it will be safe until you find it. "Please remember, dear child, that though this strange new religion which you have adopted may be the means of separating us forever, I shall never cease to love you and to pray that all may be well with you and yours. God bless you, and dearest love to you both. "Alice Mead." Libbeth was crying softly as she finished reading. "Arden, remember that day I said her perfume was in the room when we came home?. That was the time; I know it. She hid this under the organ cover, and it slipped back out of sight. It's been there all this time. Arden, take it! It frightens me to have so much of it in my hands at once!" He said, smiling, yet with a sober note in his voice, "It does look like a young fortune. I'll keep it till you're ready to use it for whatever purpose you wish." "Our house, Arden! Maybe now we can finish it so we can move int 824 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE There's nothing I want so much! Why, maybe we can do all the things at once—get the rest of our things brought on, buy the new stove and heater and the store carpet for the parlor." She was laughing and crying, and the sight frightened little Ardena so she began to whimper. "There, you lamb, Mother's all right. Listen, ll sing you a song!" Haltingly, and with errors which amused while they dismayed her, she played and sang—old love ballads, a hymn or two. There was no longer any gloom in the cabin but only gladness and cheer. Not alone what the money would mean, Libbeth told herself, but the message from her mother. She reread the note several times before putting out the lamp at her bedside. She understood, now, a part of her discontentment which heretofore she had not guessed. It was homesickness, wanting her mother. A wife and mother herself, but still deep within her was a little-girl heart longing to know her own mother's love. Now she had assurance of that love, "dearest love' which would never cease. In bed she cried for awhile, muffling her sobs in the pillow lest she awaken the children; Arden lay awake beside her, puzzled and awkward in his attempts to comfort her. "It was a crazy place to put all that money," he remarked after awhile. "It might have been lost forever!" Libbeth stirred eagerly. '"'Probably she has thought of that, too. Arden, I'm going to write her. I think she should know." "That," he agreed, "would be kind, I think." "I’ll tell her all about us. Arden, Mother doesn't even know she has a grandchild, to say nothing of two of them! I'll write the first thing tomorrow!" THEY moved into the new house just three days before Christmas. The miracle of telegraphy, starting their stored goods out within a few hours after their decision, made possible the arrival of things in time to add to the excitement and pleasure. What a Christmas it was to be! Libbeth had gifts for each of the family, including one great extravagance, a small gold pendant and chain for Ardena. 'That was the child's gift from the grandmother she might never know, and it was of a quality fine enough to treasure through the years. Inside the new house it was warm and cozy. Deep snow came the day after they were established there, and the feathery flakes piled against the windows and the doorsills. Within, Libbeth played, and Arden and Ardena sang with her, and even baby Joe seemed to try valiantly to join them, making queer lovable sounds. The organ stood grandly in the parlor, near the sitting-room door where—thanks to the new heater—Libbeth could always play in comfort. There was a fireplace in the parlor itself; they planned to light the first fire there on Christmas Eve. They had a tree, too. A symmettical young spruce, deep green and fragrant. Festoons of popcorn decked it, and bright-colored tapers awaited the time for lighting. As a Christmas Eve surprise for Arden, Libbeth had secretly taught RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 825 their little girl to sing "Silent Night". Very nicely she sang it, while he stood in the sitting-room doorway and gave flattering attention, "She's going to be a real singer!" he boasted. "Maybe some day we'll have a particular interest in the big choir, eh, Mother?" That was a new dream, exciting and wonderful. Already the fame of the great domed Tabernacle was spreading over the world. Its majestic pipe organ was the marvel of all the valleys. It was being said that with the coming of the railroad people would journey from many lands just to see and hear it. That would not be long now; day by day the shining rails were reaching out farther into the wilderness, bringing neater the time when Utah would be bound to the nation by a strong steel girdle. Voices, hallooing from the street, broke into Libbeth's mental wanderings. She followed as Arden went to answer. There were two people coming up the path from the gate. A small fur-wrapped lady came running across the porch and into Libbeth's eager arms. Behind her came a tall man with square shoulders and an erect bearing. "Mother! Why—my own mother! And Father—how in the world —when—why—?" They were senseless, mixed-up greetings, questions tossed out without need or expectancy of reply. Confusion, joyous, thrilling confusion! Only after a long time, after they had eaten and cleared everything away, and gathered at last around the bright fire, did the conversation become intelligible and consistent. "Oh, we had to come—after your letter,' Alice Mead said. "When we knew about the children—" "We!" Grandfather Mead laughed loudly. "We! Don't you believe it. It was she who's responsible. It was rank insubordination, that's what it was. 'I'm going to spend Christmas with my daughter and my grandchildren,' she said to me, 'and you may come along if you wish.' Yes, sir, just like that! And what else could I do, if she'd risk her neck in a crazy stage-coach journey through your incredible mountains at this season, what could I do but come along to look after her?" "Not a thing else!" Libbeth laughed. She saw through her father's bluff, she told herself joyously. He was as glad as his little spunky wife was, to be here. It was good to have them here, her father and her mother, sitting with her own family in this spirit of joy and companionship! THE gladness of living was strong upon her now. She was proud of her house, its snug warmth, its comfort, its lamps burning clear and bright, its atmosphere of love and contentment; proud of her children, blue-eyed Ardena, quiet and wondering in her grandmother's lap, and baby Joey, toddling from father to grandfather and back again with impartial affection; proud of the conversation which had turned to boasting of the progress and growth and the wonders being wrought here in the valleys of the mountains. "Why, I expected a desert!'' said Jervis Mead. "But you find the desert blossoming as a rose!" Arden's face glowed. "And I tell you, there are riches beyond our dreams waiting to unfold for us in this land—pre- 826 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cious metals in our mountains, fine grazing lands and fertile farm sites in every direction, no end of possibilities for industry of all kinds. We made no mistake in coming nor in making these people our people; did we, Libbeth?" "No mistake!" she agreed. "There's. No place I'd rather have my babies growing up!" The light in her eyes told them what the warmth in her heart was telling her —that this which she had spoken was really true. "No place in all the world!" "No place in all the world!" The words went through her mind over and over again—singing words, a song which had been born long ago, born in the little cabin even while she was too discontented to know. Jervis Mead was speaking again. "T hope you'll forgive me, you two, for the past. No one has a right to dictate to another what he shall believe. I'm sincere in saying that. Even if I don't quite agree with the Mormon teachings, you people out here have my respect and admiration. Id like to feel that we can be friends, and I'd like to feel that we, here in this house, are friends and more—are one family, and will always be; that you and I, Arden, are father and son." "Why, of course." "I mean, my boy, caring deeply, as these women would like to have us. And these babies... " he was taking Joey up into his arms again. "Look at him," said Jervis Mead, looking into little Joey's wide, confident baby eyes. "He really likes me. How about you, my lad?" "You're right, sir. We'll be close to each other, always." "We'll make it a Christmas gift to-the women we love, eh? A gift of peace and good will!" Their clasped hands sealed the compact. Just then, Ardena slipped down from the grandmother's knee and came toward her mother. "The candles, now, Mudther, light the candles!" They put out the lamps, so there would be only the candles and the lowering firelight in the room. One by one the tapers gleamed out, until the room was mellow with the light of them. Each one, though but a tiny glimmer, was a symbol of the Star of long ago whose light was renewed and would continue to be renewed each year where hearts admitted the Christmas spirit of love and harmony. Each candle was an infinitesimal but certain testimony that the Star which hung over Bethlehem, had shone with a Light eternal. The Relief Society and the Welfare Plan By Eva W. Darger Director of Relief Society Employment Bureau which the Relief Society has been actively interested during its entire history is the finding of employment for women and girls of the Church. At the present time, when so much stress is being placed upon securing work for the unemployed, the efforts of this department have been greatly increased. The Relief Society Employment Department concerns itself almost entirely with domestic service, which includes housekeepers, general house workers, mothers' helpers, cooks, nurse maids, laundresses, day workers and practical nurses. An average of two hundred and fifty domestic workers are placed by this department each month. Although there are no definite legal standards to regulate this group of workers, we are doing all we can to raise the standards and requirements of the homes as well as those of the workers through our placement procedure. The procedure includes investigations for satisfactory and permanent placements, adjustment of difficulties, friction and misunderstandings, coordination of training and placement, informal discussion with employers and employees before placement, and follow-up work. A personal interview with each individual applicant is necessary, during which the history of the person, her education, experience, training Or phase of welfare work in and fitness for the position applied for is thoroughly discussed. References from former employers as to experience, ability and character are checked, and the applicant is classified accordingly. If the applicant is inexperienced, personal references for character and background from reliable sources are required; then, the best opportunity for the applicant to consider is suggested. Many older women, untrained in any particular field, who are forced into the business world are helped to find employment as domestic workers, nurses or day workers. Some follow-up work after placement is carried on in order to see if the arrangement is satisfactory and if the worker is making progress. The workers are encouraged to make personal visits to the office during time off for counsel and advice. Most employees, the younger workers especially, express their appreciation of this service and are grateful to know that we are interested in their progress and anxious for their success. The standard, fundamental requirements of a good housework position are: Reasonable and definite hours, sanitary and comfortable living and working conditions, systematized work, steady employment, opportunities for advancement, freedom from social stigma, and adequate wages. Some standard requirements necessary to the employee, 828 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE which will help to bring about better cooperation and greater harmony within the home, are: A good character—honest, reliable and conscientious; a willingness to learn; an alert and active interest in the job; a good physical record; a neat, clean, tidy appearance; a sense of responsibility. The Bureau of Vocational Counsel of Boston has listed several outstanding vocational stumbling blocks to success which workers might avoid. Some of them are: Not realizing that successful working depends upon successful living; inability to cooperate with people; choosing a job entirely for the money involved; underestimation or overestimation of one's abilities; trying to do too much at a time rather than progressing gradually; using dull times as a constant source of pessimistic attitudes; inattention to spiritual qualities. Our biggest task today is restoring employment to workers, not merely finding the man or woman a job but finding the right job for the man or woman. In order to accomplish this, vocational guidance is provided by the Relief Society Employment Service. Counsel and assistance are given girls and women contemplating employment as well as those not happily adjusted in their present work in order that they may obtain greater insight into their own aptitudes, capacities, traits, skills, knowledge, and background. They are encouraged to secure any additional education or training necessary for available employment opportunities and to make the most of educational, recreational and other opportunities provided by the community. With an understanding knowledge of human beings, skill in dealing with other people's problems, and with a desire to strengthen and encourage the individual's faith in herself, this program of providing employment for women is being carried on. FIRE A SONG Across Judean hills arose A song, the angels singing; It touched the stillness of the night Softly as church bells ringing. A song of peace—peace and good will From Holy realms above For all the tired hungry hearts Who felt need of His Love. A song—immortal, heaven born— We'd hear it if we would; Look to Him now, for angels sing, Still sing of brotherhood. —Sylvia Probst. HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon DECEMBER—Happiness lies in remembrance of simple things: Children's laughter, opening buds, birds' songs, fragrant flowers, fleecy clouds, autumn tints, scented pines, frosted trees and snow-capped hills. MOTHER GOOSE, Alice in Wonderland, Snow White, The Wizard of Oz, Little Black Sambo, Ferdinand and all the wonderful people of Fairyland are with us once again, and little children wander up and down the gaily decorated avenues and brilliant lanes of stores in wonder and delight. ROBLEY LUSHANYA, an American Indian of the Chickasaws, is singing this winter with the Chicago Opera company in the title role of Aida. Lushanya, meaning bird that sings, was a protege of 'Tetrazzina and made her operatic debut in Trieste, Italy in 1937. MARIE OGILVIE GORDON, 24 years Vice-President and later Hon. President of the International Council of Women, died last October. Mrs. Gordon was a distinguished scholar. She graduated from the University of London as the first woman Doctor of Science and obtained degrees of Doctor of Philosophy from Berlin and Munich Universities. Because of her academic achievements and _ public service, King George V created her Dame of the Order of the British Empire in 1935. MME. MARIE POPP, President of the Legal and Political Association for the Emancipation of Women of Rumania, is a member of the Rumanian Senate. HORTENSE ODLUM of New York and native of Utah has written a book, "A Woman's Place," in which she tells her experience in the business world. ROXANNA GUNNELL, Lula Olsen, and Jennie Binkerd of Utah are the first women to serve on a federal grand jury. Mrs. Gunnell was elected foreman. ALICE BRADY, celebrated stage and screen star, died recently in New York. Among her greatest creations were Mrs. O'Leary in "Old Chicago" and Meg in "Little Women." MUINDWELL CHIPMAN HUNTER, faithful Latter-day Saint worker and for sixteen years President of the Eighth Ward Relief Society, died early in the year in Portland, Oregon. HANNAH ALDRICH, Handcart pioneer of Utah, recently celebrated her 99th birthday at her home in Mt. Pleasant. Among the presents was a cake with 99 candles. NAOMI JACOBS has written another fascinating novel, "This Porcelain Clay." Margaret Flint, author of "Old Ashburn Place," prize novel, has a new novel, "Breakneck Brook," with a Maine setting. Marjory Shuler, first woman to circumnavigate the world in commercial planes, has written the story of her great adventure, "A Panegyric to "Adventure." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - = =, % AMY BROWN LYMAN) - - - - < c = - = KATE M. BARKER - - - - - - - - - ~ Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - - General Secretary and Treasurer President First Counselor THE GENERAL BOARD Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spatford Donna Durrant Sorensen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Manager - - - - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Vol. XXVI DECEMBER, 1939 No.12 O— EDIT ORIAL—O What Does Christmas Mean To You? WORDS are strange things— \ an articulate sound or combination of sounds which symbolize an idea. They take on meaning in the light of the life experiences of the hearer; for example, the word "mother" brings a certain picture to One person while to another it may recall something quite different. Words have fine connotations; what may be "honest" to me may not be "honest" to you. Words have great power: They stimulate the intellect; they stir the emotions; they influence behavior. Probably no one word is exerting a greater influence upon our emotions, our thinking, our planning and our doing at the present time than the single word "Christmas". What does "Christmas" connote to you? Does it bring to mind a virgin mother, a tiny babe, a lowly manger? Do you picture shepherds keeping watch over their flocks by night, the glory of the Lord shining round about them, an angel choir praising God and saying, "on earth peace, good will toward men"? Does your heart fill with gratitude for God's greatest gift to man? Are you stirred with a desire to serve Him more devotedly, to love His children more sincerely? Thousands there are the world over to whom the word "Christmas" suggests such thoughts. Christmas_to them is "observance". To others the word conveys a distinctly opposite picture—one of hilarious debauchery, the gratification of extravagant wants, reckless spending, the overindulgence of physical appetites, excessive eating, intemperate drinking—excesses which can only bring distress, remorse and a general lowering of the quality of the individual. Christmas to them is "celebration". Many there are to whom the word suggests excitement, overwork, anxiety, worry, self-denial. The day looms before them as something which must be met, which must be lived through, but which will be a "good thing over with". The majority of individuals, however, find their hearts beating in joyous anticipation in response to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 831 word "Christmas". It means giving, receiving, sharing, sacrificing. It is a happy, joyous time—a time when all are made glad. Like the streets and the shops, hearts are light, made bright by an inward flame of love for mankind. So pronounced is the feeling of love, so generous are hearts, that wisdom does not always dictate our Christmas expressions. Often sacrifices are made out of proportion to the requirements of the day. People deny themselves important things that they may be lavish in their giving. All too often debts are incurred which become a burden as we move into the New Year, and Christmas joys are made dull by the heavy load. This is particularly true in the case of parents providing for their children. Children have so many wants, so many desires in this day. Everything contributes to whetting these wants—the shops, radio, magazine and newspaper advertising, door-to-door salesmen, the plans of - playmates and companions. Parents can scarcely bear the thought of denying the child his Christmas wants; in many cases great sacrifices are made in order to gratify them. Sacrifice is good—it stamps out selfishness, it develops the individual, it brings its compensations. But should parents always be the ones to make the sacrifice? Would it not be a wholesome thing for the child to make sacrifice also, to forego some of his desires? In making too great sacrifices, may we not be indulging the selfishnesses of our children, denying them one of the greatest gifts parents can give—the opportunity for character development? Cooperation is a sound principle of happy living. Why not apply it in our Christmas observance? Let the family plan and work together, each making his contribution in the form of sharing, giving and sacrificing. Then the great gift of self-development, family unity and stability, true happiness, will come to all. A happy Christmas must be dominated by our intelligence as well as our emotions. It will always remain a Challenge to the best that is in us. It should not be a time of indulgence nor of stress and strain because of our imperfect approach to it. It should not debase the fundamental ideals of Christianity. Let us not place too high a value upon the things which money can buy. Let us develop an appreciation of the desirability of the immaterial as a source of happiness and satisfaction. Let us emphasize the type of happiness which no amount of money can ever buy. Then the word "Christmas" will have its proper connotation—peace, good will, love, Qtems. OF INTEREST Notes From the Field "NOTES FROM THE FIELD" have told a wonderful story of the Relief Society as it is reflected in the work of the organizations all over the world. We are very grateful for the beautiful pictures and the interesting items. Those which have not been used will appear in a later issue of the Magazine. This month we are happy to yield our space to the Magazine Honor Roll. This excellent report is in reality "Notes From The Field". Attention: Literary Class Members THE BENT TWIG by Dorothy book will be available at the Deseret Canfield Fisher will be used in Book Company the latter part of Desubstitution for the Four Horsemen cember. The purchase price will not of the Apocalypse by Ibanez. The exceed $1.00. Pan-American Good Will Tour THE General Board of Relief Society helped entertain the five outstanding women of Central and South America who are making a Good Will Tour throughout the United States and who made a brief stop in Salt Lake City, Saturday, November 4. 'This trip is in a measure a return visit for a similar tour through the Latin-American countries led by our Mrs. Burton W. Musser in 1937, with great results of new friendliness and better PanAmerican understanding. More than three hundred people who attended the luncheon in honor of the illustrious visitors came away with a new interest in the nations they represent and realizing that women the world over work for the same ideals—the improving and conserving of human life and above all the preservation of PEACE. New Books BOOK two of the Jimmy Microbe series, under the title of HitchHiking With Jimmy Microbe, written by Virginia and Drew Jacobsen and Lyman L. Daines, M. D., all of Salt Lake City, made its appearance in the book stores of our country during the summer. This book has succeeded in presenting an adventuresome story for children providing at the same time in a very clever and original way scientific counsel on good health habits. A SECOND edition of Heart Throbs of the West, compiled by Mrs. Kate B. Carter and published by the Daughters of Utah Pioneers, is now off the press. The book deals with 24 definite phases of Pioneer life. It contains many new human-interest stories as well as valuable historical facts. Pioneer life will always be of interest, and this new volume will add much to our appreciation of the history of the West. Cathedral of Peace By Dorothy Clapp Robinson RESUME—FIRST INSTALLMENT Carotyn Evans thought she was being a good wife by working hard and saving consistently without complaint. She became so absorbed in petty details of work and saving that she could sec nothing else. She had even forgotten how to neighbor with other ranch wives. Then with cruel bluntness her husband had refused to take her with him to a Stock Growers Convention. Hurt beyond words and sick with disappointment, she rushed away from the house to her CATHEDRAL OF PeEAcE. This was a cottonwood grove in the "'bottoms'' pasture of the Idaho ranch that was her home. In the grove she could always find peace and quiet from the conflicting pressures of a discordant home and overbearing husband. Weeping there and asking herself "why?", she is accosted by Kane Holland, who is a rancher neighbor. He is a bachelor who in the past has been kind and considerate to Carolyn and her boys. Highly indignant over the treatment she receives from her husband, he offers her a way out via the divorce court. Carolyn is confused more than incensed. Realizing this, Kane leaves her to think things out alone. She is soon interrupted by Bob Evans, her first-born son. He is large and strong like his father but with much of his mother's shyness. Secretly, he thinks, he is in love with a newcomer to the valley. He refuses, however, to make any advances to her because of the condition of his home. In sympathizing with his mother over his father's neglect of her, he speaks highly of Kane Holland. That brings a warm glow to Carolyn's heart. She feels if she does leave her husband, she will have Bob's support. She lets him know, in a timid, indirect way, that Kane is in love with her. Bob startles her by exclaiming, ""Good grief, Mother, be your age." CHAPTER TWO THE grim humor of her son's abrupt change in viewpoint struck Carolyn like a dash of ice water. She laughed, lightly at first, then wildly, hysterically. Tears so much a stranger to her, rollea down her cheeks. Bob's discomfort sharpened to alarm. He started to put an arm over her shoulder then drew back. "Mother, please. I didn't — I don't mean—confound it, I don't know what I mean, but don't cry." Like many reserved people, when Carolyn lost control she lost completely. Great racking sobs shook her. "Mother, listen. If you don't stop crying I am going for Dad. You'll ruin yourself. Please, Mother." Carolyn fought for control, but the long delayed storm was slow in passing. She missed with keen appreciation a loving arm about her, a shoulder to cry on. She was alone, completely alone. When she showed signs of control, Bob grew irritated again. "That sounded as if I were running out on you, but I'm not, Mother. After all, you don't need to take what he's giving you." "What can I do?" "How do I know? That is your problem." His voice softened. "After all, it's your life and you can do what you please with it; but think of the mess. Breaking up a family is no small affair." He looked toward the Elkhorn and voiced a sudden thought. "He would not leave 834 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her home alone while he went to the Convention. No one would make a doormat of her." Carolyn tried to think. In that brief period when she had considered leaving she had counted on Bob to understand. She must have counted on all the children understanding and going with her. Carson, her second born, had always been resentful and sharp. He had never left doubts as to his likes and aversions. She had never felt entirely sure of him, but she had thought she was so certain of Bob. If she couldn't depend on Bob, would she dare mention such a thing to Carson? Bob had inferred she was a doormat. That hurt worse than his father's neglect. One crystal clear thought took possession of her. Divorce or not, Bob would never have occasion to speak of her in such a manner again. "Okay." She borrowed his expression, and although he did not know it, the word, unfamiliar on her lips, was her whistle in the dark. "Do you want to go to the Elkhorn with me?" "When?" "Right now." "For what?" "To tell her I am going to learn not to be a doormat." "You mean you are going to work in the Relief Society?" Then as she nodded, "but you know what Dad said about it last night." "I know, but after all—' Something of her crushed pride, her terrible uncertainty, her groping determination, her need for love was transmitted to him. He caught her in his arms. "Gee, Mom, you are grand. [ll go with you—all the way." Reaching for his discarded shovel, he threw it over his shoulder, and they moved on to cross the narrow footbridge over West Fork, and on to the house. "TIl drive you over," Bob offered, "or saddle a horse." IN the pasture back of the corrals a man was watching their approach. Turner Evans was an older, heavier edition of his son Robert. Time had dealt kindly with him. He was straight and his muscles hard. Black hair, where it showed beneath his hat; was only lightly sprinkled with gray. His eyes had lost none of their alertness. As he watched the two, the muscles of his mouth settled into grim lines, but a great weariness battled irritatingly within him. "She's been to that grove again. I've a mind to burn it down. Why doesn't she face things instead of always running away?" The thought of the cottonwood grove was, to him, the waving of a red flag. Why didn't she develop a little spine instead of withdrawing. When she returned from the grove, she had a reserve an axe couldn't cut—and where did that leave him? The inconsistency of the question added to his irritation. Perhaps he was harsh. Perhaps he was trying with his harshness to force her to— what was he trying to do? What was wrong with him? With her? He hadn't meant to hurt her so. No, he really hadn't. He'set his lips grimly. He was leaving her home to keep her from experiencing a deeper hurt and a more devastating one. A mental picture of Carolyn dressed in what she called her "best" rose to plague him. Once he had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 835 tried to explain to her. Once, for a period, he had gone to extremes in his attentions to her, hoping to hold fast something that was rapidly slipping away from him. But that, too, had been ineffective. Carolyn was just where she had been fifteen years ago. No, she was not—she was not that woman at all. The futility of it, the hopelessness of achieving any change, soured his vitals and sharpened his tongue. Imagine her beside the other wives. Imagine her beside—and long ago she had forgotten how to talk. Weariness won the battle temporarily. What was the use of it all? Where was the satisfaction life had once promised so abundantly? Where had they drifted? Carolyn, Carolyn, what has happened to us? "Til stay home myself." Then, immediately he thought, "No. I shan't do it. I won't stagnate." A quick, clear vision of another woman came to him—a warm sympathetic woman, thoroughly feminine, yet who could give him the intellectual companionship for which he was so hungry. If only— but he thrust the thought aside. That thought was too dangerous to play with. Carolyn was his wife; he loved her, or once had, and a man didn't do such things to the mother of his children. He looked at Bob, and his face softened. What a man he could be if only he didn't grow inward. He was so much like Carolyn there was more than a chance of it. He must be stern with him. He must whip him into shape. He left the pasture and met them in the yard. He meant to control himself, but habit was strong. "It is time someone was getting here," he barked. "Where have you been?" He was looking at Carolyn, but the son answered: "TIrrigating, as I was commanded." "Get on a horse and ride to the east-line fence and see what is keeping Carson. I sent him down there six hours ago. He can kill more time when he rides in that direction than any two men I ever saw. Take another hammer and plyers along. He has the other stuff with him, or should have, but you can never tell." Bob hesitated. "I was going to drive Mother over to the Elkhorn." "That can wait." He glanced sharply at his wife. '"Why does. She want to go? You get that fence fixed. I want those yearlings in there before dark." Taking the shovel from the boy, he turned and left. "Go on," Carolyn said, as Bob still hesitated. "Carson is probably at Semples, or Garden is with him. I wish he would stay away from her." "What about telling Mrs. Straughn? You are not going to back down?" Carolyn hesitated. This was a sample of the way she so easily lost control of a situation. Why try to fight? There was comfort, of a sort, in a beaten path. She glanced at her boy, and her resolution stiffened. No, she would not retreat. "You ride by and tell her for me. Find Carson first; then you needn't hurry." Seeing them still standing, the father called, "Did you hear me say I wanted that done in a hurry?" "Go on," Carolyn urged. "Let's 836 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not have any more fussing." She turned toward the house. "Give in. That is always your solution," the boy accused; she went on without answering. "WHERE have you been so long?" her five-year-old Judy greeted her as she entered the house. "Us twins looked and looked." At the window Carolyn watched Bob prepare to ride away. "Where is Bobby going?" Jerry, the more active of the twins demanded. "T want to go with him," Judy announced suddenly and began calling, "Bobby, Bobby, wait for me." They were both out of the house and after him in a flash. He stopped. Ordinarily, he would have put them in the saddle, and he would have ridden behind. This time he sent them back. Carolyn's heart caught as he rode away. Horse and boy were a symphony of movement. All she had endured was as nothing to the joy of being the mother of this childman. Was peace worth his disapproval? But of what did he disapprove? Definitely, he resented any connection between her and Kane. Just as definitely he disapproved of her going on as she was. Did he have the right to prescribe the bounds of her existence? In one, two or three years at the most he would be gone. He could build his own life as he pleased, but what of her? Life would not last forever. In the too few years left hadn't she a right to some degree of happiness? Was it the fact that you had a master that counted, or who the master was? Meanwhile, Bob had gone back the way they had come. Half a mile south through the trees he turned east to the fence. This was the "bottoms" land that during high water was a marsh and sometimes a lake. After the water receded, it made good pasture. The undergrowth and scattered clumps of trees kept the ground moist and cool. The grass grew rank and succulent. Almost opposite Carolyn's Cathedral Bob found the break. A rush of water earlier in the season had loosened the fence. Carson had reset the posts but had not touched the wire. His horse, still saddled, was cropping near by, but the boy was not to be seen. Bob called once or twice but received no answer, so he went to work. This was like Cars to stop in the middle of a job. It was to be hoped he would show up soon. Bob must get through in time to go by the Elkhorn. A hot sweet ecstacy flooded Bob at the thought of the Elkhorn. From an inner secret shrine he brought to remembrance The Girl, and strangely, she was the flesh and bone, the sparkle and wit, the intellect and gracious femininity of June Straughn. That was queer, he thought, for he had known The Girl for several years, and two months ago he hadn't heard of June Straughn. He still hadn't been introduced to her. He knew with the certainty of youth that no other girl would ever enter his shrine. "Girls like her don't marry men like me," he thought, bitterly. If things were different. If Dad treated his family as he did his neighbors. If Mother—he gave the staple he was placing a vicious blow. Confound Kane Holland, falling for a woman like Mother. Didn't any of them know their ages? One would think they were—he dropped his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 837 hammer with the suddenness of thought. Did Kane feel toward Mother as he felt toward June? Absurd! They were old. They had had their day. Irritably, he stooped to recover his hammer. Poised to strike another blow at the staple, he stopped with another thought. Would his day with June end when. They became older? Suppose he should marry her, would he in years to come treat her as Dad treated Mother? This time the blows of the hammer threatened to dislodge the post. Heaven forbid! Better to have an unspoiled dream than a tarnished reality. June's parents were still having their day. Even 'the most casual observer could be sure of that. It was that quality which made them so attractive. Maybe Mom missed that. Now, maybe she did. As for that, maybe Dad did. Once in a while, with Dad, you caught a glimpse of something. Could it be he had once felt as Bob felt now, strong as an ox with protectiveness, yet quivering with humility? Dad was a mighty decent person, too. He was good looking and popular. Some fellows in his shoes would have been chasers. Vaguely, he wondered if that had anything to do with Dad's irritation. When he thought of June—he groaned aloud. Why, why did some people, heads of families, get themselves in such messes? One thing was certain, they were messing up his life as well as their own. "WHAT are you groaning about?" Bob looked around. Carson was standing beside him, and he was in an ill humor. Carson was shorter than Bob and slighter. While resembling his mother in looks, there was none of her quiet reserve about him. Every day he played through the entire emotional scale, and no one could predict what particular note he would strike at any given time. "It's time you were showing up," Bob told him. "Dad is on the war path. Where have you been?" "None of your business," Carson answered shortly, "I am old enough to take care of myself." Bob sniffed. "It doesn't smell like it." "And what are you going to do about it? If I want to smoke, I will. Semples are top people I'll have you know." "Yeah?" "Yeah." Picking up his discarded hammer, Carson banged furiously at an unoffending post. "And I mean yes. At least the atmosphere in their home doesn't pickle you. They are fun." "Catch hold with your _plyers. Now, pull. If they are such fun, why are you always cross after you have been there?" Carson didn't answer, but when they were picking up their tools preparatory to leaving, he said: "IT can't stand an undercurrent nagging at me all the time. Why don't they fight and get it out of their systems. If I am ever crazy enough to marry—" "Better get a strong willed gal," Bob interrupted, "or you will be worse than Dad. At that, you will probably fight." "How about a sweet one who can twist me to her will?" Bob, in the act of swinging into his saddle, stopped in alarm. "Listen, Kid, you stay away from that outfit. They are fun but—" 838 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Horsefeathers," Carson snorted, "and don't kid me. I am only two years younger than you. Let's have a swim." Leaving their horses, they walked to the bank of the river two or three hundred yards away. The river, at the point they chose, was completely curtained with cottonwood and willows. It was shallow except about a bare, overhanging bluff where, in making a turn, the water had swept a hole. The slightly musty odor of the meadows, mingled with the fragrance of wild roses and tangy willows, was a challenge to their youth. Stripping quickly, they plunged in. The water was cold and slapped at their skin with an invigorating sting. Later, as they were dressing, Carson said, "This is certainly a secluded spot. I believe you and I are the only ones that know about it. If I wanted to do any skullduggery, I'd come here for it." "The cattle know about it," Bob indicated. "They probably use this bluff to shade up on. So you can depend on humans knowing it, too." Through the quiet came a clear call. "That is Mrs. Semple," Carson said, in a burst of confidence. "You know, sometimes I think she isn't so keen about being her brother's housekeeper. He is a sort of jolly fellow; yet, I notice they all jump to his tune. This spot is on his land. I hope they haven't discovered it." LATER, as they walked their horses along the line fence, Carson returned to his original subject. "You needn't worry about me and Garden. I'm leaving." "Leaving? Where are you going?" "Anywhere I can get a job. I am going to try the Cross Line outfit. They hire new men, now and again." "Dad would not let you go." "Until I get a job I shan't tell him, and neither will you," he added emphatically. "If I get it, he can whistle." "What about school?" "Yeah, I know; but I've got to get out. I've got to be on my own." Bob did not answer. He knew without putting it in words that Carson was growing up. He was full of contradictory desires and emotions. He had to do something or go some place to test his own powers. What he needed was something strong to tie to. If he had that, going to school would probably satisfy him. "Watch your step," he warned, "you don't want to live with regrets." 'Then as they crossed West Fork above its junction with the river, he added, "I am going to the Elkhorn on an errand for Mother." "For Mother, huh? That's a new one. Watch your step, Little Boy. You are inexperienced." "Go to grass." Bob turned his horse, and as he loped easily along the grass-covered road he found himself keenly anticipating what lay ahead. He had been wanting to do this ever since the Elkhorn had changed hands. The Straughns were the type of people he and his were going to be—if there ever were any "his'"—the kind his own Dad and Mother should be. The river was low where he crossed, but it reached the bay's knees at that. Only then did Bob notice the figure, sitting astride her horse, watching. (To be continued) MORMON HANDICRAFT Highlights By Nellie O. Parker "God, let me be aware, Let me not stumble blindly down the ways Just getting somehow safely through the days. Let my hand, groping, find other hands, Give me the heart that divines, understands. Please keep me eager just to do my share; God, let me be aware." —Meriam Teichner. AS the Christmas season approaches, we become imbued with the spirit of giving gifts and spreading happiness and cheer. Most of us would love to do the kindly things within our reach if we were only aware of what these might be. Life pushes us from so many sides that we don't take time to think of those outside our intimate circle and the things we might do to make their way a little brighter. If we would only develop a "seeing eye and an understanding heart," we would never be at a loss for something to do. It is the little thoughtful, considerate things tht are often most deeply appreciated. Every woman knows that by careful planning she can make her Christmas money reach farther and do more in bringing gladness and joy to other hearts. Plan to buy at least one gift from Mormon Handicraft this year. Not only will you be getting something high class, but you will be helping an unknown friend to have more for her Christmas. Bring a friend with you to the Shop and help widen our list of patrons. If you are looking for a useful quilt or a pretty coverlet, you will find many to choose from; also many beautiful pillow cases, luncheon sets, doilies, table covers, etc. See the lovely handmade dolls. If your little daughter is collecting dolls, she will want a real pioneer with her ruffled petticoats, gingham apron and sunbonnet. For friends or loved ones living away from home, a small box containing four glasses of native jelly would be truly a "sweet" gift. Come early, you may want to order a hand-knit sweater or a ski set consisting of cap, mittens, socks and scarf, in time for Christmas. The Shop is filled with so many things; it is a good place to come for suggestions, and you will be doing your share for our cause, as well as helping to make a merry, happy Christmas for others. Please take notice: Many of the quilts being sent to the Shop are too short. A handmade quilt is usually bought to be used as a coverlet and should be long enough to serve this purpose. MUSIC DEPARTMENT Uses of the Left Hand in Conducting By Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff ALTHOUGH most of the conductor's desires can be indicated in some measure to the chorus by means of the baton alone, the use of the left hand is necessary to clarify and emphasize the messages conveyed by the right. Since the baton is constantly moving, its movements do not attract instant attention. The effectiveness of the left hand in getting expression lies in the fact that usually it hangs relaxed at the side, invisible to: the chorus; its slightest motion, therefore, demands attention. Sometimes the left hand parallels the right, but more often it does not. Then comes the difficulty, best mastered by persistent practice before a mirror. An uplifted palm or finger will insure the holding of a long note for its full value. The same movement coupled with tension in the left arm (as if it upheld a heavy weight) will indicate loudness. Softness may be indicated by pushing down and toward the chorus with the left hand, palm down. A sudden accent may be obtained by doubling the fist tightly and making a vigorous motion in the direction demanded by the beat on which the accent occurs. The right hand must continue its movements uninterruptedly throughout any of these movements. In the course of a piece, where the rhythm must continue while the chorus holds a long note, it is best to insure that everyone stops, together by holding and cutting off the chorus with the left hand, without stopping the movement of the right. The same supporting motion of the left hand will prevent the chorus from breathing in the wrong place. It can be made to take breath wherever the conductor wishes by drawing back both hands toward the body momentarily and without interrupting the rhythm, at the same time expanding the ribs and elbows as though taking a deep breath. As the music becomes more complicated, the different voices do not enter together. In such pieces, the entrance and sometimes the exit of each voice should be indicated by cue-beat and cut-off with the left -hand. A look toward the part affected intensifies the effect. The chorus can be balanced while singing by indicating softness or loudness to the proper part with the left hand. Care must be taken not to vary the size of the beat, or the entire chorus will respond. It is evident that none of these left-hand motions can be well executed until the right hand beat-patterns have become so automatic that nothing disturbs them. Effective conducting requires that the eyes of the director be free to communicate with the chorus. It is best to conduct from memory, since eyes and left hand are then free to be used to best advantage." *It is now obvious that these articles are as valuable to the organist as to the chorister. The chorister must know how to execute the movements that will force the chorus t@ do as she wishes; the organist must be able to interpret them faster than the chorus, in order to assist the effect. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 841 Emotional Content of Vocal Music MUSIC that is written as a setting for words is usually intended to express the emotion that is contained in those words. This may be accomplished in two very different ways: 1. The first method may be called "classical", since it is the one used by composers of the classical period, notably Mozart. In it the individual words are somewhat disregarded, and the piece is so written that its total emotional effect is the same as that of the words. The music in this kind of composition is effective whether the words can be understood or not. 2. The second method may be called "tomantic"', not because it savors of romance in the vulgar sense, but because song writers of the romantic period, such as Schumann and Grieg, made extensive use of it. In this type of composition the value of each word is emphasized by the music to which it is sung. The music then hangs on the words and is not as effective if the words are not heard or known. Most songs are written both ways. In some places the music controls the way the words are sung, and in others the words control the singing of the music. It is necessary to determine where each occurs. To do this the words must be read and analyzed carefully; the music must be heard and thoroughly learned; then, the two must be compared, important words marked, and outstanding harmonies or melodic fragments noted. The next step is to discover the prevailing emotional tone or mood of the entire piece. The best way to make the mood definite in the conductor's mind is to find a single word or phrase that will express it. This method of procedure is ably set forth by J. Spencer Cornwall in his Church Choristers' Manual, which every one of our conductors should study with the greatest of care. The following list of moodwords is drawn from Brother Cormwall's list: Sadness, depression, sorrow, agony; playfulness, gayety, gladness, happiness; supplication, thankfulness, worship, praise; tenderness, longing, love, adoration; love of country, reverence for great men, martial spirit, glory of victory. The first group contains words expressing various degrees of grief; the second, joy; the third, religious fervor; the fourth, love; the fifth, patriotism. These general emotional reactions are designated by Brother Cornwall as the five universal moods. There are certain passive moods; such as, serenity, contentment, meditation and contemplation, which do not seem to partake of any of these active emotions. In most songs it will be found that the mood does not remain the same throughout. It will then be necessary to find a word: to express the mood of each verse, or each line, or even each phrase. The important point is that the emotion to be expressed must be determined exactly enough to be defined by a word or phrase. Only by so doing can the conductor discover a starting-point from which to begin working out his interpretation of the composition. The listener's reaction to the music is controlled largely by four things: The tempo (speed), the dynamics (softness or loudness), the words he hears, and the conditions under which he has heard the piece before. The first two are affected by emotional content in many ways. Sheology and SJestimony Lesson 6 Paul the Missionary—First Missionary Journey HELPFUL REFERENCES F. W. Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul, chs. XIX ff. A. T. Robertson, Epochs in the Life of Paul, chs. VI-VIII. B. W. Robinson, The Life of Paul, chs. V-X. J. P. Smyth, The Story of St. Paul's Life and Letters, chs. VI ff. F. A. Spencer, Beyond Damascus, chs. XIII-XX VIII. PAUL GOES TO THE GENTILES.—When Saul and Barnabas returned from their mission to Jerusalem, they brought with them John Mark. (Acts 12:25) In Antioch there were "prophets and teachers," so Luke informs us. (Acts 13:1) The name of Barnabas heads the list and Saul's comes at the end. This may be accidental, but it is quite probable that Barnabas, who was older than Saul and better known to the Church Authorities than the erstwhile Pharisee, was his senior in the work at Antioch. "As they ministered to the Lord, and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away." (Acts 13:2, 3) This passage, like so many in the Bible, is tantalizing. Many details we should like to know are missing. Who is meant by "they" in the above passage? Does it mean the "prophets and teachers' named in verse 1 exclusive of Barnabas and Saul, or, as some think, does it include other men in authority who came down from Jerusalem? (Compare Acts 11:27,28) The last possibility seems unlikely, for Luke would probably have given their names. What office in the Priesthood did Barnabas and Saul hold? It is not probable they were apostles, for though they are called such in Acts 14:4, 14 it is only in the etymological sense of "one sent". Furthermore, had they been apostles in the sense of being members of the Twelve the procedure outlined in Acts 13:3 would likely have taken place in Jerusalem under the direction of Peter and his associates. Barnabas and Paul (now given his Roman name by Luke in Acts 13:9, 13) gave a wonderful account of themselves in their missionary journey together. Young John Mark deserted them at Perga in Pamphylia and returned to Jerusalem. Paul did not forgive him for a long period of time. We rather suspect that Mark found the going too hard and difficult for a young, inexperienced man. The First Missionary Journey took the two missionaries to Cyprus, Perga in Pamphylia, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 843 Antioch in Pisidia, Iconium in the same district as Antioch, Lycaonia, Lystra, and Derbe. On their return to Antioch, they had a wonderful story to tell. In truth, they had had more adventures on this first mission than most ordinary men would wish for in a lifetime. They could report in general that the Jews rejected their message, but that God "had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles". (Acts 14:27) PAUL FACES THE JUDAIZERS.—It_ will be remembered that when Peter opened the Gospel doors to the Gentiles he immediately met opposition from the "Circumcision," Jews who had joined the Church but who still believed that certain rites of the Mosaic Law should be adhered to. (Acts 10:45- 47; 11:1-18) At that time, it didn't take much to quiet the opposition, but with the passage of time the Gentiles came into the Church in great numbers and the "Circumcision" or "Judaizers'" began to be alarmed. 'They sent representatives as far north as Antioch "teaching the brethren, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved." (Acts 15:1) Such doctrine raised the righteous wrath of Paul and Barnabas, who immediately objected to the dissemination of it among the people. The problem became such a debated one that it was finally found necessary for the authorities in Antioch to send Paul, Barnabas, and others to Jerusalem "to the apostles and elders" (Acts 15:2) for the purpose of finding a solution to it. The brethren passed through Phoenicia and Samaria "declaring the conversion of the Gentiles: and they caused great joy unto all the brethren". Paul and Barnabas were welcomed in Jerusalem where they reported their activities. 'The apostles and elders then came together to discuss the merits of the claims made by the Judaizers. (Acts 15:5) Peter recounted how the Gentiles were to receive the Gospel and the Holy Spirit on even terms with the Jews. Then Barnabas and Paul arose and told of their remarkable experiences among the Gentile peoples. James also arose and after quoting the Scriptures said "Wherefore my sentence is, that we trouble not them which from among the Gentiles are turned to God; But that we write unto them, that they abstain from pollutions of idols, and from fornication, and from things strangled, and from blood." (Acts 15:19, 20) The discourse of James seemed to settle the matter, and it was decided to send men back with Paul and Barnabas; namely, Judas and Silas. The two latter had letters giving the decision of the Jerusalem conference to read to the people of Antioch. This letter was delivered and read in due time to the great joy of the people. Paul and Barnabas were completely victorious over the Judaizers. It should not be supposed that the latter had had no opportunity at the conference in Jerusalem to present their side of the problem. Acts 15: 7 mentions the fact that there had been "much discussion" or perhaps better "much questioning." The whole controversy aroused great interest in the ancient church. In a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith the Lord makes mention of the fact that "in the days of the apostles the law of 844 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE circumcision was had among all the Jews who believed not the gospel of Jesus Christ. And it came to pass that there arose a great contention among the people concerning the law of circumcision." (D. & C. 74:2, 3.) The complete revelation indicates that unbelieving parents whose mates were members of the Church might cause trouble in a family because they would want their children subjected to the rites of the law of Moses. In that event the children would give way to the old traditions and refuse the gospel, wherein they became unholy. The advice of Paul, so the revelation says, was for believers not to yoke themselves to unbelievers, unless the law of Moses was to be done away among them. This modern revelation indicates what an important problem the Judaizers gave the ancient Church of Christ. Paul's letter to the Galatians (2:11-21) gives other sidelights on the ancient problem that are extremely interesting to us because of the clash of important personalities. PAUL BREAKS WITH BARNABAS.—After the meeting held with the saints at Antioch, in which the decision of the Jerusalem conference had been read, Paul and Barnabas continued to preach among the people. But the restless nature of Paul asserted itself again, and he was anxious to go on another journey to visit the people among whom they had previously labored. 'This was satisfactory to Barnabas, but he purposed to take with them John Mark who had deserted the missionaries in Pamphylia on their other missionary journey. Paul sharply demurred, and the two men separated. Barnabas took Mark and sailed to Cyprus. We never hear of Paul and Barnabas working together again, though at a later date the former pleasantly alludes to the good work of Barnabas. (See I Cor. 9:6) Paul chose Silas to go with him, and the two visit Syria, Cilicia, Derbe and Lystra. At the latter place Paul picked up Timothy as a helper and companion to aid in the work. The missionaries continued their journey leaving copies of the decision of the Jerusalem council in the cities they visited. (Acts 16:4.) They proceeded through Phrygia and Galatia but were forbidden by the Holy Spirit to go into Asia. (Acts 16:6) PAUL GOES TO EUROPE.— Paul and Silas continued their journey to the western coast of Asia Minor bordering on the Aegean Sea. Here they stopped at the city of Troas. It was while at this place that Paul had a vision by night. As Professor A. T. Robertson has said, "Paul had visions at great crises in his ministry." Such is usually the case with great prophets. Luke describes Paul's vision as follows: "And a vision appeared to Paul in the night; there stood a man of Macedonia, and prayed him, saying, "Come over into Macedonia, and help us." (Acts 16:9.) 'This vision was destined to change the history of Europe and yet the telling of it occupies but one verse in our New Testament. "One can but wonder what might have been the result if Paul had not pushed on to Troas, but had turned back to Cappadocia and Pontus, to Armenia and Babylonia, to India and China. Others might in time have carried the gospel westward, as some did to Rome. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 845 But if the stamp of Paul were removed from Macedonia, Achaia, and Rome, Christian history would not have run the same course." So comments Professor Robertson. It appears that Luke went over into Macedonia with Paul, Silas, and Timothy, for of a sudden the narrative is told in the first person plural. "And when he had seen the vision, straightway we sought to go forth into Macedonia concluding that God had called us to preach the good news to them." (Acts 16:10) We are not told the circumstances under which Luke joined the party. It has been concluded by some scholars that this "beloved physician" (Col. 4:14) may have helped to save Paul's life during his sickness in Galatia. (Gal. 4:13) However, this is purely speculative, and we can not be sure of its correctness. Luke is a very important New Testament character because of his writings, and it is well for us to observe his methods of reporting. Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit.) 1. Tell some of the most interesting things that happened on Paul's First Missionary Journey. (Acts 13, 14) 2. Study Paul's sermon in Acts 13:16-47 from the point of view of time, audience, place, adaptation to a difficult situation, etc. 3. Make a little study of a number of Joseph Smith's visions and revelations and see if, like Paul's, they came at crises in his ministry. 4. Procure, if possible, a map showing the course of Paul's four missionary journeys and have some one point out the provinces and countries visited. Estimate the distance covered, the hazards he encountered, etc. Compare missionary work today with that of Paul's day. 5. Read Acts 15 and compare with D. And C. 74. Pronouncing Vocabulary Perga (Pér-ga) Pamphylia (Pam-phyl'-i-a) Pisidia (Pi-sid'-i-a) Iconium (1-c6n'-i-tim) Lycaonia (Ly-ca-6'-ni-a) Lystra (Lys'-tra) Derbe (Dér'-bé) Troas (Tr6'-as) Cappadocia (Cap-pa-d6'-ci-a ) Achaia (A-ka'-ya) > Visiting Teacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 6 Giving "Every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give; not grudgingly, or of necessity: for God loveth a cheerful giver."—II Cor. 9:7. ONE of the most essential conditions for moral and spiritual growth is for a person to lose himself in the service of a great cause, a cause that far transcends the individual. This principle is emphasized 846 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in that notable saying of Jesus, "For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it." (Mark 8:35) The truth of this statement is verified in the experience of those who forsake all to become messengers of salvation to those who have not heard the gospel of Christ. It has been the history of missionary work in both ancient and modern times that the missionary loses thought of himself, his own personal comfort, and in some cases even his own life, that he may bring salvation to others. It is under these circumstances that he realizes his own highest and best self. On the other hand, the man who hoards his possessions and to whom _ the thought of giving to one in need or to help advance a great public cause is distasteful is one who makes himself most miserable. 'Those who do give but only with the expectation of receiving at least an equivalent in return are courting disappointment -— and can in no wise realize the joy of giving. "Give without recompense" and in return you will realize the spiritual uplift that always follows such giving. The Apostle Paul has preserved for us one of the most notable sayings of Jesus, one not recorded in the gospels. In one of the Apostle's sermons recorded in Acts 20:35, he says, "Remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive." Certainly it is more blessed to be able to give than to be in need of receiving. 'This is true whether our gifts are material or spiritual. Discussion 1. What should be uppermost in one's mind in responding to calls for Church service? 2. What may we give other than material gifts to enrich the lives of others? 3. In what spirit should tithing and other offerings to the Church be given? Literature THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 6 Les Miserables FOLLOWING Jean Valjean's escape from the galleys, he keeps his promise to the departed, and rescues Fantine's child, little Cosette, from the cruel Thenardiers, the dishonest, sordid innkeepers to whom her mother had entrusted her. The story of the pathetic plight of the little waif and the brutality with which she is treated presents a picture of dramatic intensity. From the chance meeting of the child with Jean Valjean on the road, the story of Christmas and the doll, to the final departure from the inn, one knows that little Cosette will never RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 847 be without a protector again, "But as he was fifty-five and Cosette was but eight years old, all that he might have felt of love in his entire life melted into a sort of ineffable radiance. This was the second white vision he had seen. The Bishop had caused the dawn of virtue on his horizon; Cosette evoked the dawn of love.... Who knows that Jean Valjean was not on the point of becoming discouraged and falling back to evil ways? Love came and he again grew strong. Alas! He was no less feeble than Cosette. He protected her and she gave strength to him. Thanks to him she could walk upright in life, thanks to her he could persist in virtuous deeds. He was the support of this child and-this child was his prop and staff. Oh, divine and unfathomable mystery of the compensations of Destiny!" Cosette grows into a beautiful and loving girl, thoroughly devoted to her benefactor whom she 'knows as Father Fauchelevent who practices __ the art of a gardener, which was his original trade, and though he lives a hunted life, he continues his acts of mercy and generosity to everyone he meets. He comes to be known "the beggar who gives alms". Many touching scenes from the streets of Paris, hospital wards, the halls, gardens and classrooms of the convent are related, and Valjean meets many strange acquaintances. Javert continues to be his evil shadow. There is a great mass of material included in this remarkable novel which may seem to have but slight connection with the narrative, but it is immensely valuable as a social record of the time; Victor Hugo was the spokesman of public opinion —the interpreter of public feeling. In these dissertations he presents the characters animated by the spirit of the struggle out of which emerged modern France. While the plot of the novel is quite involved, it is very consistently and harmoniously developed to its conclusion. The great romance of the story centers in the love of Cosette and Baron Marius Pontmercy. In the character of Marius, who is in every sense a worthy young man, a fine opportunity is offered for the author to express his own patriotic fervor and devotion to ideals. Marius is just what one imagines Victor Hugo to have been as a young man. The life of Cosette and Jean Valjean together is a beautiful picture, but in addition to the evil shadow of Javert there is the infamous innkeeper who has seen Valjean and Cosette and continues to devise some vicious scheme for blackmail. There is a very distinct suggestion of retributive justice, or punishment, perhaps, in the fate of the innkeepers' daughters and the love and security which surround Cosette now they are grown. On the love of Marius and Cosette there is one shadow— Marius distrusts and dislikes Jean Valjean who is keenly sensitive to this fact, but he is determined that nothing, which he can prevent, shall mar the happiness of his beloved. The story of the family of Marius, his father and his grandfather, involves many pages of French history, but the part which concerns Marius directly is the account of the Paris barricades erected against the government of Louis Philippe. Marius participates in this protest of young republicanism. In the chapters which 848 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tell of these events and characters and the conflicting forces at work, every art of a master novelist is brought into play to reach the mighty climax. Jean Valjean goes to the scene to protect one he knows to be dear to Cosette, and here he comes face to face with Javert, who in the performance of his duties as a police officer has come to the scene of trouble, where he is taken prisoner. Marius recognizes Valjean but has no idea of why he is there. In the affair of the barricade Jean Valjean is designated as ''a man who saves others'. It is the intention of the insurgents to kill the prisoners they have taken, especially Javert the spy—as he appeared to them. Jean Valjean makes but one request, that is to execute Javert. This is granted. The chapter entitled "Jean Valjean Takes His Revenge" is one of the greatest climaxes in fiction. Javert who has so ruthlessly hunted Jean Valjean through his whole life, is now in his power; instead of killing Javert, whom he takes into a side street, he cuts his bonds and tells him to go, at the same time discharging his pistol to make it appear he has carried out the execution. Marius shudders as he hears it. During the narrative of. The barricade, the author expresses his feelings for France and her people—a beautiful, glowing, patriotic tribute to the grandeur and glory of his native land. The barricade is certain to fail, but Jean Valjean has one fixed purpose in remaining there and that is to save Marius. 'The manner in which he does this by carrying the wounded, unconscious young man through the sewers of Paris is perhaps the best known episode in the book. The horror and minute detail of the description of the sewer is realism equalling anything ever written by the greatest of the school of realism, but it is treated in Hugo's-romantic style. Phelps says, "Victor Hugo writes of the sewers of Paris with superbly picturesque eloquence." The final meeting of Javert and Jean Valjean occurs on the banks of the river in the early morning, as Valjean reaches it with Marius, still unconscious. Valjean tells Javert that he will surrender himself if only Javert will help him to get Marius home. 'This is accomplished. Valjean makes one more request and that is to be permitted to go home for a moment. This Javert grants, but when Jean Valjean returns to meet Javert as agreed, he is gone.. The chapter "Javert Off the Track" is another fine piece of psychological analysis. 'The conflict which rages in the mind of the official who is placed between his professional duty of arresting an offender and the moral and sentimental impulse to save the man who has saved him is so fierce that it tears his whole scheme of life up by the roots until he can see no way out but suicide. Marius recovers, and Valjean arranges for the marriage, concealing Cosette's ignoble birth and setting upon her his fortune of six hundred thousand francs. "'Cosette has Marius, Marius possesses Cosette. 'They have everything, even riches. And it is his work." Then comes the supreme struggle and sacrifice of his life: "Jacob wrestled with the angel but one night. Alas! How many times have we seen Jean Valjean clenched, body to body, in the darkness with his con- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 849 science, and wrestling desperately against it.... And, after having racked, torn and broken him, his conscience, standing above him, formidable, luminous, tranquil, said to him, 'Now, go in peace!' "' Jean Valjean fully senses the distrust and dislike which he knows Marius feels for him, so he decides to leave, though he knows it will break his heart to be separated from Cosette. One of the most tragic and pathetic chapters in the novel is the one relating the interview with Marius, when Valjean reveals that he is not Cosette's father and that he has served a long term in the galleys, in fact, that he is even now an escaped convict. He has decided to withdraw from their lives so that no shadow will fall on the life of Cosette. This recital is exquisitely done. Marius and Cosette are supremely happy in their love for each other, but Marius is seriously disturbed by some facts. He does not care to use the money given them by Valjean, for he fears it has not been honestly obtained. There are two men to whom he feels immeasurably indebted, one is the prowler who has, nevertheless, saved the life of his father, Colonel Pontmercy, on the field of Waterloo; the other is the man who carried him through the sewer following the barricade. He persists in trying to find them so that he might acknowledge his debt of gratitude. The conversation in which Marius tells Jean Valjean of what this man really did, as he rescued him and carried him through the sewer to safety, is drama of the type that only Victor Hugo could write; throughout the entire recital Valjean keeps silent. THE last book in this great novel brings it to a most consistent and artistic conclusion, "Supreme Shadow, Supreme Dawn". The analysis of the conduct of Marius and Cosette is a fine bit of human philosophy, so tolerant and true to life. Theirs was the "ingratitude of nature" and sheer happiness in each other. The interview of the innkeeper and Marius is perhaps the major climax of the story. It tells Marius the identity of the two men he most wishes to find. The innkeeper has the fine cunning of the real criminal. He is certain of the identity of Cosette and Jean Valjean. He knows that Valjean has impoverished himself to provide for Cosette. Marius is the logical person to approach in the blackmail scheme. Marius is convinced that he is dealing with a crook of the lowest order, but he discovers also that the innkeeper is the man who saved the life of his father, Colonel Pontmercy, after the battle of Waterloo, though bent upon the lowest of all errands, robbing the dead! The innkeeper tells Marius that he has information which proves Valjean to be a robber and murderer. Marius announces that he is aware of this, that Valjean years ago robbed Monsieur Madeleine, and that he killed Javert. The innkeeper produces evidence to disprove both of these charges. He shows that Valjean is without doubt Madeleine himself and that Javert committed suicide, but he tells Marius that Valjean is an assassin. In proof of this, he confesses that he was in the sewer following the barricade and saw Valjean carrying a man whom he had undoubtedly murdered. He produces a piece of cloth torn from the 850 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE coat of the murdered man. It fits exactly into that worn by Marius. It is impossible to imagine a more dramatic scene. Quite contrary to what he had intended, the innkeeper wipes from the mind of Marius the last shadow from the character of Jean Valjean. He stands revealed, the noblest work of God—a character glorified by sacrifice and suffering. Valjean is dying when Cosette and Marius reach him. They are not too late to receive his blessing. He tells Cosette the name of her mother: "Her name was Fantine. Remember that name, Fantine; fall on your knees whenever you pronounce it. She suffered much and loved you much." To Cosette he bequeathed the two silver candlesticks which he always kept with him. "They are silver; but to me they are gold, they are diamond; they change the candles which are put in them into consecrated tapers. I do not know whether he who gave them to me is satisfied with me in heaven. I have done what I could." This great novel is not only "a good story well told," it belongs to the beautiful in literature. Living types are reproduced—all human emotions are faithfully depicted, the fine touches in dialogue, the matchless descriptions, the powerful scenes in history, all these could come only from the pen of a genius such as Victor. Hugo. When the book appeared nearly eighty years ago, a preface accompanied it which is quite as appropriate today: "So long as there shall exist, by reason of law and custom, a social condemnation, which, in the face of civilization, 'artificially creates hells on earth, and complicates a destiny _ that is divine, with human fatality; so long as the three problems of the age—the degradation of man by poverty, the ruin of women by starvation, and the dwarfing of childhood by physical and spiritual night—are not solved; so long as, in certain regions, social asphyxia shall be possible; in other words, and from a yet more extended point of view, so long as ignorance and misery remain on earth, books like this cannot be useless." Questions and Suggestions 1. Justify the statement that Les Miserables takes its place in the front ranks of the world's best fiction. 2. Compare the love of Jean Valjean for Cosette, and of Marius and Cosette. 3. What do you consider some of the greatest climaxes in the book? Justify your choice. 4. Why is Les Miserables a_romantic novel? A realistic novel? A psychological novel? 5. Give reasons for classing Les Miserables "a great human document" and a great "social register'. Social Service Lesson 6 Psychology of Personal Efficiency I. WHAT DO WE MEAN BY "WILL POWER"? We probably seldom realize how much waste there is of human ability and energy because of poor management of ourselves. William James once said, "We all have the habit of inferiority of our full self. As a rule, men habitually use only a small part of the powers which they actually possess. Everyone knows the feeling of being more or less alive on different days. Compared with what we ought to be we are only half awake. Our fires are damped, our drafts are checked. We are making use of only a small part of our possible mental and physical resources. 'The human individual thus lives usually far within his limits." Formerly, we were taught that we had a faculty called the "will", which we called upon in order to get ourselves down to work or to do anything against the resistance of our own inertia. We thought of "will" as a free agent which was unfettered by our past experiences and habits, something which would aid us to "pick ourselves up by the boot straps" and to do something distinctly above any previous performance. Recent psychology has taught us that "will" is probably simply our ability to do tasks at any given time, and it grows as we succeed in doing what we try to do against resistance. The ability to attack and to accomplish relatively new and difficult tasks grows by our doing that kind of thing. The person we usually speak of as successful is he who has this ability to take a course of action and to pursue it to a definite goal in spite of obstacles. President Heber J. Grant has stated this view in this widely quoted statement: "That which we persist in doing becomes easier to do, not that the nature of the task changes, but that our ability to do increases." The same truth has been put in another way: "The law of nature is: Do the thing and you shall have the power; but they who do not do the thing have not the power." (Quoted by Brande, D., Wake Up and Live, p. 85.) We sometimes speak of "will" as the habit of success. From everyday experience, we know that the habit of success makes further accomplishments easier. 'This habit grows out of the confidence we build from past successes and is sometimes spoken of as self-confidence. Reflect for a moment upon what runs through your mind when you are confronted with a task, which you later succeed in accomplishing. You probably think back on some similar task which you accomplished. You take courage or confidence from the previous success, and this attitude itself aids you in the new undertaking. Not only do you bring a favorable attitude from the past experience but also some skill which you acquired from wrestling with the previous situation. The attitude of confidence and the greater power to do, which grow out of past successes, are what we mean by the habit of success, self- 852 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE confidence, or "will power". The joy of past achievement makes us hungry for further successes and adds power and direction to our daily efforts. We have just described the habit of success, but we often find its opposite, the habit of failure. How does the habit of failure grow? It grows simply by a person making the wrong reaction to his mistakes and failures and doing so repeatedly until that becomes his characteristic way of meeting difficulties. The person who is the victim of the habit of failure has an unpleasant recollection of all of his past defeats, his past failure to acquire the power and skill to do, just as the person with the habit of success can recall pleasantly his past achievements. The joy of feeling successful leads one to put forth effort to accomplish new things, but the feeling of being defeated makes one want to quit the struggle. The dangerous side of the habit of failure is that it breeds more failures. As a person becomes progressively less capable of exerting a good effort, he fails more and more often. These multiplied failures continually reduce the chances of success, and the victim is caught in a vicious circle out of which he can climb only by persistent practicing of the opposite habit of success. Sometimes a great shock or crisis in one's life produces a "re-birth" which is the starting point for a new fighting spirit which failures cannot defeat. II. MOTIVES ARE ACTIVITIES ALREADY STARTED. Conduct is much like a rolling snowball: After it once starts in a direction, it is much easier to keep it going and increasing than it is to start it in the first place. Woodworth, one of our most able psychologists, says that a motive is simply an activity already started. Thus, a man who has set out upon a certain career is carried along by his own momentum, or a person who forms the habit of going to Church has a motive to continue simply because that has become his way of life. We all know that any difficult task brings forth effort more easily after once started than when we are making the original start. In fact, so long as we seem to be progressing toward a goal, we often find it difficult to stop, even when another task should be done. Children who have started playing house often hate to stop for dinner even when hungry, simply because the activity itself builds up a motive to continue which is stronger than hunger. Of course, other activities and needs of the individual eventually interrupt, and we may find it necessary to stop. It is helpful to choose a stopping point at which it will be easy to get started when we return to the task. This doctrine of motivation has important practical applications. Many times we lose our motivation because we meet some minor failure or some difficulty which forces a temporary halt to our progress. Unless we habitually put forth greater effort at these points of difficulty in order to keep our progress running along, the motivation dies out with the letting up of activity. The person with good mastery of his powers, when confronted with a difficulty, may "let up" for the moment but only until his mental activity leads him to a more successful attack, which starts progress again. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 853 The person with the habit of failure breaks down at these points—that is, his very habit of failure prevents him from keeping himself motivated at the critical time. When he lets the activity stop and the motivation die out, he has the greatest difficulty getting down to work again. Probably characters are largely shaped by the early habits children build up in their manner of meeting obstructions. A general style of living may be formed early in life of putting forth additional effort or of making repeated attempts at crucial moments when motivation is threatened. Likewise, a habit of defeatism may be acquired early and may be a life-long blight on one's character. One more point should be mentioned in this connection. The person who is active, who continually tries to succeed, naturally increases his knowledge and skill. Even though many of his efforts fail, he is by his persistent efforts learning and growing in ability to do. He who withdraws from the fight learns nothing and therefore does not grow more capable of succeeding next time he tries. III. BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES FOR SUCCESS. 'The habit of failure does strange tricks to its victims. For one thing, we may accept shoddy substitutes for the success we fail to achieve. The wolf who said the grapes he could not reach were sour grapes had probably never heard of a ladder. We make similar excuses for not making intelligent efforts to overcome obstacles. We often delude ourselves into thinking the fruits of work are probably not worth the effort. As middle and later life overtakes us, it is easy to begin to live in the past, to be satisfied with thinking of successes of our younger days rather than making the most of our future. - Dreaming becomes a substitute for constructive imagination. Brande has this to say in speaking of "the bad old habit of dreaming the world into a different shape while life slips away": "It is this idea which must be held firmly in mind: That the test of whether or not one is dreaming or imagining correctly is whether or not action follows mental work. Any mental activity which turns backward for longer than it takes to correct a mistake and to replace an unsatisfactory habit with a good one, is minus and cannot be continued if you hope to lead a fuller life." (Brande, Dorothea, Wake Up and Live, p. 111.) The hobbies and diversions a person has may be either a valuable release from effective work, refreshing and recreating the worker, or they may be a retreat or substitute for success in one's more serious undertakings. For example, sometimes a person finds a substitute success in doing fine handwork which takes the place of being a good home manager. A business man who falls short of what he expects of himself may write poems which gain some recognition and give him a substitute satisfaction for his failure to make a genuine success of his business. Moving picture shows, while generally wholesome diversions, are used by some people as a make-believe world which substitutes for the satisfaction of living life well in reality. All serious-minded people should cultivate hobbies and diversions for the purpose of increasing efficiency, not to substitute for it. 854 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE IV. HOW SHALL I PLAN MY WORK? To make work easier to get at and stick to we should provide -certain conditions. First of all, we may easily form the habit of doing certain work at a certain place at a certain time. If this habit has been established, we conserve much of the wasted energy of deciding each time what to do, where to do it, and when to do it. This habit is especially valuable in doing those tasks that must be done but which are not pleasant in themselves. Many housewives go through the unpleasantness of routine duties two or three times before actually doing them, simply because they lack orderly time and place work habits. 'There is joy in the success of not letting little unpleasant duties take up too much of your life, and orderly habits are necessary for this achievement. A further aid to getting at a task we are inclined to shun is to prepare all materials in advance, say the night before, so that when the time comes there are no preparations to make, and the activity can be started immediately. Previous preparation often removes the possibility of "dilly-dallying" while preparing to work until we think of a good excuse for doing something else. Then there is the question of distractions, if our task is an intellectual one such as studying, planning a speech or program, or writing a poem. How distractions affect us is a matter of habit also. If we have done intellectual work in the presence of distractions, such as children or the radio playing, these distractions finally have little effect on us. A person who habitually works under conditions of this kind may even be distracted by the silence if there are no distractions. Under some circumstances we actually concentrate better with some distractions because we exert more effort. At any rate, distractions of a mild character are not a good excuse for fail- _ure to concentrate. This is a matter to be studied for ourselves. So far as possible work conditions that suit us individually should be provided. Fatigue has already been mentioned as an influence which may affect work. We must learn to distinguish true fatigue from the "desire to be tired" in order to get out of work. 'True fatigue is often less unpleasant than the other kind. Efficiency is affected, however, by fatigue, and we should include ample rest in any work program. Short rest periods during working hours are often found to increase output of work. But rest is not the only way to overcome fatigue. Work produces certain toxic substances in the blood which are distributed to all parts of the body and have some effect on the whole, even though coming only from the certain parts being used directly in work. However, fatigue is also specific to some extent; that is, the parts of the body most directly used become the most fatigued. For example, if we have been on our feet at one kind of work, our output of work at a task at which we sit is not greatly affected. The practical suggestion from this is to plan our schedule so that different kinds of work will be alternated in such a way as to reduce extreme fatigue of any particular organs. Rotate the tasks, allow for changes in order to avoid fatigue and boredom. This means planning for leisure time activities, too, for this part of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 855 a work plan is as important as any other. A properly planned work program, by the contrast of work followed by play, makes play take on a new delight. Since play is a release from routine and work, how can anyone who has no plan or who is lazy get the most out of play? A final practical suggestion is that if we have difficulty getting down to work, we should plan tasks which we are certain to accomplish with reasonable effort—neither too hard nor too easy. If we have already acquired the habit of failure, this is the only way back to the road to success. Hosking in Human Nature and Its Remaking has said in this connection: "Education consists of supplying the halted mind with a method of work and some examples of success. 'There are few more beautiful miracles than that which can be wrought by leading a despairing child into a trifling success; and there are few difficulties whose principle cannot be embodied in such simple form that success is at once. Easy and revealing. And by increasing the difficulty by serial stages, the small will, under the cumulative excitement of repeated and mounting success, may find itself far beyond the obstacle that originally checked it." Part of the great task of living is to take accurate measure of our personal equipment and to gauge our tasks to our capacity. Naturally, we all make mistakes in estimating what we can do, but when we see our task is too much for us we should not develop the failure attitude; we should apply more energy and use better judgment in attacking our problems or else build our strength and confidence through tasks more within our reach. Which of the two methods to follow depends upon "what manner of man" we are; that is, what our past successes have been. Problems for Discussion 1. What do we mean by "will power'?. 2. Study your own reactions to defeat or failure. Are they usually inclined to make you exert more effort or less effort in overcoming obstacles? 3. How is the habit of success cultivated, assuming that it is not very well developed in us now that we are adults? 4. What practical aids do you use in making it easier to get your household routine done? 5. Show how "keeping the ball rolling" makes your work easier. References 1. Brande, Dorothea. Wake Up and Live, New York: Simon and Schuster, 1936. P. 198. Popular and stimulating style. 2. James, William. On Vital Reserves, New York: Henry Holt, 1911. See pp. 6-7 particularly, most of the remainder will be found interesting and stimulating. 3. Morgan, J. J. B. Keeping a Sound Mind, New York: Macmillan, 1934, See pp. 136-168, 362-384. Written for beginning college students. 4. Starch, D., et al. Controlling Human Behavior, New York: Macmillan, 1936, pp. 193-234. Semitechnical discussion of factors affecting efficiency. Education for Family Life FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Lesson 6 My Parents Do Not Know Me IS it possible for the members of one generation to understand and be sympathetic with the problems of the members of another generation? To what extent do parents think they know their children? To what extent do children think they know their parents? To what extent do children think their parents know them? If we had satisfactory answers to these questions, we would have at least a starting point in our attempt to cope with one of the most important phases of family relationships; namely, the parent-child relation. We do have sufficient first-hand evidence to convince us that the majority of young men and women of high school and college age think that their parents do not know them and do not understand the problems with which the young people of today are confronted. Whether or not the young folk are correct in their thinking we cannot say, but they do offer a quantity of concrete evidence to justify their opinion. This fact is of vital importance to adults who desire to know the younger generation. Only to the extent that parents are acquainted with the ideas that children have concerning the parentchild relation is it possible for parents to understand the behavior of their children, since it is what we think is true that influences our attitudes and actions. A sixteen-year-old daughter, who was the pride and joy of her parents, overheard her mother discussing with a friend the great difficulties, problems, and responsibilities involved in rearing children today in comparison with those of earlier periods. Unfortunately, the daughter heard only a fragment of the discussion from which she drew the conclusion that she was a great burden to her parents, that her parents did not love her as she had thought they did, and that her mother had never wanted her. Such an idea was in absolute contradiction to the real situation. However, from the time of the incident the daughter's attitude toward her parents, particularly toward her mother, changed almost completely. She became less sociable, less talkative, took on an attitude of indifference, spent as little time as possible in the home and in the presence of her mother; however, she showed deliberate consideration and an undue amount of impersonal respect toward both parents. The mental conflict for the daughter became so intense that she finally decided to confide in one of her teachers. During the course of the conversation, the girl confessed that she knew she would never recover from the shock she had experienced when she learned that her parents did not love her and that her mother had never wanted her; therefore, she had decided to leave home as soon as possible and try to forget her parents. After a number of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 857 conferences, the girl reluctantly gave consent for the teacher to talk over the situation with the mother. It was with no little difficulty that the father and mother, with the assistance of the teacher, were able to convince the daughter that her concept of the situation was all wrong; that the true situation was as the daughter had always wished it to be, one of love, affection and devotion on the part of her parents. In all of our human relationships it is not enough to acquaint ourselves with the facts of a situation, but we must also be aware of what the other person thinks the facts to be. This is of special importance in successful parent-child relationships. Frequently, the roots of unsatisfactory parent-child relations lie in the attitudes of the parents toward the child and in the lack of mutual understanding of the attitudes of parents and child. Hornell Hart suggests that there are four different fundamental attitudes taken toward children, with corresponding different emotional and behavior results: The first of these is to regard the child as an obstacle, an irritant, or a nuisance; the second is to regard it as something to be exploited, as an economic asset, as an object for the exercise of his craving for power and authority, as a means of vicarious display or vicarious fulfillment of thwarted ambitions, or as a love-object to gratify parental emotions; the third is to consider it as a responsibility; the fourth is to regard it as a bundle of potentialities to be developed. Sound parenthood must take account of whatever is valid in all of the above four attitudes. The first step in promoting successful parent-child relations is for the parent to frankly face his own attitudes and purposes with regard to his child. It is necessary for the parent to realize integration of his own purposes as well as integration of purposes between parents before there can be integration between parents and child. The next essential is for the parent to have an understanding of the purposes and possibilities of the child. During the early years of the child's life the foundation must be laid if mutual understanding between parents and child is to be experienced during later years. Furthermore, confidence and sympathetic understanding can be attained only as the result of conscientious effort, untiring patience, and the constant demonstration of the practical application of the fundamental principles of personal integrity on the part of the parents. Now let us turn our attention to a few of the most common mistakes which parents make that result in the hindrance of the development of confidence and understanding between parents and child. 1. Parents attempt to be one of the young folk instead of being one with them. A forty-year-old parent cannot be as a twenty-year-old child unless the parent has not matured in a normal way. Twenty-year-olds appreciate parents who have a reasonable amount of dignity, superior judgment, who exercise self-control; yet, who have not become so old, socially and psychologically, that they cannot appreciate and under- *Hart, Hornell, Science of Social Relations. New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1927, Chapter XVIII. 858 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE stand the point of view of the younger generation. 2. Many parents practice deceit and other forms of dishonesty in their relations with their children. Wise parents are aware of the difficulty of successfully bluffing young people of today who are, as a rule, very sensitive and responsive to sincerity. 3. Parents ask too many questions concerning unimportant details in the hope that the child will form the habit of telling his parents everything. Few individuals, young or old, care to tell everything. What parents should strive for is to build up desirable attitudes and habits so that the child will come voluntarily to his parents when he has a problem to solve or a unique situation to meet. 4. Parents set themselves up as examples to their children rather than to select some noble and praiseworthy character whom both parent and child could profitably emulate. The second practice would give the child an opportunity to discover for himself the similarity between his parent and the ideal. When the parent sets himself up as an ideal, the child feels that there is too great a gap between the two, and thus he sees no basis for mutual understanding. 5. Parents worry over too many relatively trivial things. In such cases the child usually takes an attitude of toleration and paternalism toward his parents. He feels that he should protect his parents from unnecessary worry by not telling them anything that can be kept. "What Dad and Mom don't know won't? Worry them," is a common expression of young folk. 6. Parents too often are so steeped in their own problems that they fail to realize that what to them may seem a minor problem is to the young person a major catastrophe. Is there a mother who cannot remember what a tragedy it seemed to her at the age of eighteen not to be asked for a dance by the one man whom she secretly admired most of all? Or is there a father who cannot recall the time when the most important thing. In life to him was to have money with which to purchase a red heart box of candy on Valentine Day for the one and only girl; how he felt when his father only laughed and told him if the girl liked him the candy was not necessary, and if she did not like him he would be silly to spend money on her? Whatever the young person considers to be important at any particular time should be treated with the utmost dignity, respect and confdence by adults. OW to turn our attention to question number four which was presented at the beginning of our lesson. Based upon the discussions of an average group of young people who expressed themselves frankly on the subject as to whether or not their parents know them, we submit the following opinions: The majority of young people do not discuss problems with their parents unless they think that their parents will learn the information from other sources. Young people do discuss problems concerning sex and love affairs RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 859 with married siblings and with intimate friends of their own sex. Frequently, problems are taken to the mother of a friend because, "she understands my problems and is more sympathetic than my own mother would be, and she doesn't worry about me." Fathers are consulted about problems concerning money matters more generally than are mothers. Mothers are consulted about problems concerning human relations more generally than are fathers. Minor automobile accidents are not reported to parents if the resulting damage to the car can be erased without being found 'out; or in case of a fine, if the fine can be paid without help from parents. 'This practice is due to the fear that in the future the child will be denied the use of the car if parents know there has been an accident. Information gained from young folk leads one to believe that quite frequently the child learns of minor automobile accidents experienced by one mate about which the other mate is never informed. This may explain why so many children have adopted the same practice. Now as to some of the reasons given by youth as to why parents are not consulted in the solving of problems: Fear of hurting parents. Parents do not understand conditions of today, so that anything we do that is different from what they did when they were young shocks them. Parents exaggerate the seriousness of situations. Parents think their children are better than other children, so it not only shocks them but really hurts them to know the truth about their own. Parents become so emotional when confronted with the problems of youth. Mothers cry and fathers become angry. Parents worry too much when there is no cause to worry. Because parents are opposed to their children marrying too early they seem to think that every friendship with a member of the opposite sex will result in marriage, so it is just as well not to let them know to what extent their child is interested in a member of the opposite sex. Parents have no time to bother with the problems of their grown children; they do well to provide for the material needs of their offspring. Parents uphold the double standard as far as parents and children are concerned; hence, will not accept in children what they do themselves. Once again we emphasize the fact that the above opinions represent what youth thinks is true. Probably the majority of parents would not agree with youth; if so, then it is of vital importance for every parent to help his own child see the true situation. It is equally important for the parents of young children to guard against the development of such ideas during the formative years of the. Life of the child. N conclusion, we present verbatim an example of an ideal parentchild relation as expressed in writing by somebody's child of college age. Might it have been written by your child? "To whom would I go if I were 860 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in any kind of trouble? If my parents were available, they would be the first persons I would think to consult for help and guidance. My parents have tried to instill good principles in my mind and then let me act on my own judgment. At the same time, they have always made me feel that if I were in any difficulty I would be free to come to them. My mother has always said that she has not lived her life yet and therefore does not feel as if she can censure the actions of others who may have done wrong. She has always made me feel that I would be understood if I confided in her and that she would do all in her power to help me to make a right adjustment. Father has always made us feel that home would always be the best place to come no matter what happened. "IT don't believe that we should tun to our parents with every little petty thing we do wrong. We should build our own character strong enough so we can go to ourselves, on such occasions and solve our own problems. "I know from observation and conversation that I am very fortunate to have the confidence of my parents. I think they are the best people to go to, because they try to understand and at the same time not be over-sympathetic. The problem of over-sympathetic parents is just as serious as having parents who are not willing to be bothered with the problems of their children. "Because of my fortunate relationship with my parents, I do not feel that I can fully realize the problems many young people are confronted with when they are in trouble and have no one to whom they feel free to go." Questions and Problems For Discussion 1. Give concrete examples of each of the four attitudes toward children as suggested by Hart. Reserve a period during the coming week when you and your mate can be together for the purpose of discussing your mutual attitudes toward your children. 2. What evidence can you offer from your own experience to disprove the validity of the opinions of youth with regard to the failure of parents to know their children? 3. Make a list of ten factors that you think would contribute to the establishment of the type of parentchild relation represented in the concluding quotation of the lesson. 4. Tell the class about some of the practices that you are using with your small children for the purpose of laying a foundation for mutual confidence and understanding for the future. Nhission Lessons L. D. S. CHURCH HISTORY Lesson 6 Organization of the Church (To be used in place of Literary lesson) LF us suppose that you have something to sell — furniture, books, animals, or land. Let us suppose, further, that you wish someone else to sell this property for you. Now, before anyone could do that, he would first have to obtain your "authorization," as we call it. For otherwise he could not. Come to your home and say, "I'm going to sell these things whether you want me to or not." It is the same in other things that we call earthly. If someone from another country wishes to become a citizen of your nation, he cannot become such by just saying to himself, "I’m a citizen!" Nor can he do so by appearing before just anybody in that nation and be sworn in. He must make application to the proper person and go through the necessary routine. Then he is a citizen. Do you think it is any different in the matter of religion, the most important concern of human beings? The Church is often spoken of by Jesus as the Kingdom of God. Like eatthly governments it must have officers, laws, and subjects. In other words, the Kingdom of God, or the Church of Christ, like every other organization, is conducted in an orderly way. No one, therefore, has a right to organize the Church of Christ until and unless he is given the necessary authority by the Lord, either in person or through his servants. Anyone may organize a church without that authority, but it will not be the Church of Christ, and no one who belongs to it has any claim to salvation in the Kingdom of God. JOSEPH SMITH knew all this. He had been so informed in the First Vision. As you may remember, he had been told two things about the Church by our Savior himself. One of these was that the Church of Christ was not then upon the earth and that, therefore, he must not join any church in his town. The second thing was that he, Joseph, would in due time be given the authority to organize the Church of Christ again. And here it is necessary to make a distinction which is often lost sight of. A man may do good in and of himself. Fortunately for us there are many good people in every nation, and have been in every age. Also there are many organizations that are wholesome in their purpose and work. Among these are the various churches. All over the world there are churches that are helpful to their members. And so, as long as men and women in these societies are sincere and as long as the churches are helpful here and now, perhaps 862 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE we should not be severe on them. But this is not the only world. There is a world of the spirit, the world of God, the world of men made perfect. That is real, too. And so when anyone organizes a church, he is supposed to get authority to do so first, and that authority can come only from God, who is the ruler of that world. No man, therefore, who establishes an order for this world alone, has any right to expect that his order will be effectual in the other world. At best, man can see but a short distance ahead. He can therefore provide for only a brief span of life. His mistakes, for this reason, will be many. But God sees life in its whole. He knows the end from the beginning. And so his plans are farreaching, complete. The laws which he establishes have the whole of life in mind, not a part of it. But he does not wish us to make use of that plan unless we are willing to follow His guidance. Hence, leaders in religion must have continual revelation—visions, if necessary. Only in this way can we feel sure that we are Carrying out what we know as the "plan of life and salvation". The sectarian churches of Joseph Smith's time, of course, did much good, just as those of today are doing. But they lack, and still lack, spiritual power. "They have a form of godliness, but deny the power of God." 'That is what the Lord told Joseph Smith, as you will remember, in the First Vision. That is, they had no divine authority, no priesthood recognized by God. Here is the whole thing in a nutshell, as we say. The churches of the Prophet's day had no saving power because they had departed from the Way, UR Prophet did not, for this reason, obtain his authority to organize the Church of Christ from any of the ministers of his time. He could not have done that because they did not have it themselves. His priesthood came direct from heaven. On the fifteenth of May, 1829, while the translation of the Book of Mormon was going on in Harmony, Pennsylvania, Joseph and Oliver went out into the woods, to pray over a matter which had come up in the Record. While they prayed, John the Baptist, of whom we read in the Gospels, appeared to them. He had been raised from. The dead. Placing 'his hands on their heads, he said, "Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer the priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins." John instructed them to baptize each other and then to ordain each other to the priesthood which he had just conferred upon them. This they did. Afterwards the spirit of prophecy came upon them, and they foretold many things that would come to pass in their generation. John also told them that, in due time, the ancient apostles Peter, James, and John would confer upon them the Melchizedek priesthood. Accordingly, some time later, these apostles appeared to Joseph and Oliver, laid their hands upon the heads of the young men, and ordained them to the higher priesthood. This gave them "the keys of the kingdom and of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times." It also gave them the apostleship. 'Thus RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 863 they were empowered to act for God on the earth. They had divine authority, the priesthood. In these two visions—that of John the Baptist and of the ancient apostles—they obtained the priesthood direct from the men who held it under Christ. Any member of this Church, therefore, who holds the priesthood, can trace it back to Christ, through three of these four heavenly messengers. ACTING under this divine authority, the Prophet, with his faithful companion, proceeded to organize again the Church of Christ on the earth. It was orgafiized on. April 6, 1830, shortly after the publication of the Book of Mormon. It was on a Tuesday. Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Hyrum Smith, Peter Whitmer, Jr., Samuel H. Smith, and David Whitmer, with a few others, met at the home of Peter Whitmer, Sr., for the purpose. They were all young men. The oldest, Hyrum Smith, had just turned thirty, and the youngest, Peter Whitmer, Jr., would not be twentyone till the following September. Joseph Smith was in his twenty-fifth year. They had all been baptized before this. Baptism in their case was for the remission of sins, not for entrance into the Church. One would expect that the name of the new Church would be the "Church of Joseph Smith." But it was not. Having been instructed and authorized by the Lord himself to organize His Church again on the earth, the Prophet called it the "Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." The phrase "of Latter-day Saints" distinguishes it from the Church of Jesus Christ of Former-day Saints. People who did not like the new organization often called it the "Mormon Church." But that is not its real name. Like the term "Christian," it was given in derision; its members believed in the Book of Mormon. We cannot stress too much the idea that this modern prophet, in spite of the fact that he was not schooled, held the priesthood. And he was the only one authorized to organize the true Church on the earth at the time. Hence this is the Church of Christ. Questions and Suggestions 1. If you wished to sell something and did not want to act yourself, what would you have to do? How do foreigners become citizens of your nation? 2. Name some of the officers of our Church; some of the laws; some of the ordinances. How does one become a member of our Church? 3. When, where, and by whom was our Church organized? What is its true name? Why was it called by this name? 4. Tell how Joseph Smith received the authority to organize the Church. Where else could he have got the authority? 5. Read or sing "The Morning Breaks" and explain why this hymn was chosen in connection with this lesson. Note: Map printed in July issue of Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons. Magazine Drive THE 1939 Magazine Drive has been the most successful in the history of the Organization. More stakes, wards, missions and branches are listed on the Honor Roll this year than ever before. The reports, with very few exceptions, reached the office promptly and were carefully and accurately made out, which greatly facilitated the work of compiling the Honor Roll. We highly commend our energetic and capable Magazine Representatives for the splendid work they have done. Their service is of inestimable value to Relief Society. We greatly appreciate the active support of Relief Society executive officers. Realizing the importance of the work, they have whole-heartedly aided Magazine Representatives to achieve their goals. The response of our many thousands of friends the world over who are our subscribers is a source of gratitude. Careful planning, unusual cooperation, faithful energetic service has characterized the work. Increased Magazine circulation is only one of many values resulting from this activity. We are justly proud of accomplishments. HONOR ROLL FOUR HIGHEST PERCENTAGES GROUP A (Enrollment 100 or over) Ward Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Magazine Agent Mesa Second Maricopa 100 186 186 Lula R. Stewart Provo Fourth Utah 127 225 177 Flora Buggart Twentieth Ensign 100 165 165 Louise B. Mullett Ogden Fourth Ogden 115 136 120 Lena Hansen GROUP B (Enrollment 50 to 99 Inclusive) Twelfth Ensign 50 133.5 267 Elon Calderwood Harvard Liberty 99 146 200 Irene Crofts Brain Ogden Thirteenth Ogden 82 142 179 Edith Wilson Phoenix Third Phoenix 57 102 179 Grace Whipple GROUP C (Enrollment 1 to 49 Inclusive) Hurstville Br. Australian Mission 9 31 345 Kit Wilson Bellflower Long Beach 9 28 256 Marie E. Visser Vernon St. Johns 12 28 233 Ella L. Grau Worland Big Horn 19 43 226 Elizabeth Nielson The above receive high honors and will be presented with a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine at the Relief Society General Conference, April, 1940. Ward Cedar First Lovell Hillcrest Pocatello Fifth First Lincoln Richards Seventeenth Hawthorne Salem Ward Fourteenth Dimond Mc Gill Phoenix First Mc Kay Brigham Second Columbus Layton Antimony Phoenix Second Heber Third Hooper Long Beach Sparks Twenty-first Ogden Twentieth Mesa Fourth Eighteenth North Idaho Falls Fifth Eighteenth South Gunnison Freedom Price Third Malad Second Elmhurst Twenty-seventh Ensign Draper Second University Nibley Park Liberty Tremonton First RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 865 WARDS 100% OR OVER GROUP A (Enrollment 100 or Over) Parowan 102 118 116 Big Horn 111 123 111 Grant 110 120 109 Pocatello 121 128 105 Liberty 124 128 103 Granite 113 116 103 Granite 111 114 103 Salt Lake 163 164 101 Granite 136 137 101 Palmyra 104 104 100 GROUP B (Enrollment 50 to 99 Inclusive) Salt Lake 74 107 145 Oakland 90 128 142 Nevada 78 108 138 Phoenix 65 89 137 Wells 63 85.5 136 Box Elder 81 108 133 Wells 70 92 131 North Davis 90 115 128 Garfield 50 64 128 Phoenix 93 116 125 Wasatch 90 112 124 Weber 88 109 124 Long Beach 77 95 123 California Mission 58 71 122 Ensign 85 102 120 Ogden 89 106 119 Maricopa 79 93 118 Ensign 68 80.5 118 Idaho Falls 67 79 118 Ensign 84 98 117 Gunnison 59 67 114 Star Valley 50 57 114 Carbon 72 81 113 Malad 68 77 113 Oakland 52 60 113 Ensign 93 103.5 112 Ensign 82 92 112 East Jordan 66 74 112 Ensign 66 73 111 Granite 99 109 110 Liberty 73 80.5 110 Bear River 92 100 109 Magazine Agent Ella Holyoak Effie Tolman Viola Cahoon Jean Henderson Josephine Pett Mabel D. Flandro Irene Irvine Julia G. Miller Dorothy Miles Lettie Peterson Magazine Agent Bashua A. F. Chapman Jessie E. W. Booth Louisa Johnson Letha A. Marian Rebecca Jones Sarah H. Horsley Anna Hutchinson Grace Forbes Mary K. Riddle Camelia Gulliver Annie K. Moulton Florence Naisbet Ermina R. Joseph Merle Wade Josephine Affleck Mattie Manning Grace Burton Edith Vickers Ila Sams Hannah Watkins Orilla Wilkinson Vilate Bond Martha Brog Alzina Johnston Mary King Lavina Smithen Jeannette McArthur Ellen Smith Melissa Smith Anna C. Rich Emma Armstrong Verna Jones Dorma Brough Stake Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 866 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GROUP B—Continued Ward Thirteenth Nampa Second St. Charles Fielding Boise Third Beaver East Logan Eleventh Grace First Ogden Seventeenth Mesa First Pleasant Grove First Central Park San Francisco Ammon Preston Second Malad First Moab Park View Vernal Second Sutter Ogden Nineteenth Springville Second Eleventh Ogden Seventh Queens Le Grand Eagar Santa Monica Capitol Hill Junction Wilshire Spanish Fork Second Emigration Menan Rigby Second Highland Park Lehi First Ogden First Raymond First Richfield Second Matthews Mesa Third Ogden Third Duchesne Berkeley Spanish Fork First Spanish Fork Fifth Burley First Draper First Bingham Stake Ensign Nampa Bear Lake Bear River Boise Beaver Logan Bannock Mt. Ogden Maricopa Timpanogos Grant San Francisco Idaho Falls Franklin Malad San Juan Long Beach Uintah Sacramento Weber Kolob Ensign Ogden New York Bonneville St. Johns Hollywood Salt Lake Garfield Hollywood Palmyra Bonneville Rigby Rigby Highland Lehi Weber Taylor Sevier Los Angeles Maricopa North Weber Duchesne Oakland Palmyra Palmyra Burley East Jordan West Jordan Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 109 109 109 109 109 108 108 107 106 106 106 106 106 105 105 105 104 104 104 104 103 102 102 102 102 101 101 101 101 101 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Magazine Agent Alma Erickson Mary E. Dixon Alice B. Rich Mrs. H. Potter Florence Pruett Vera Ashworth Josie M. Robinson Lillian Peterson Mary Bertagnole Ida Verney Emma Harper Hedy Davies Sarah H. Pomeroy Christie Heath Estella G. Paton Esther Hess Edna Allan Marguerite Hunt Sara Lyon Lucile Beck Elizabeth London Florence Simkins Eda Eatchel Jessie Woods Louise Greenwood Malinda C. Hicken Lurana B. Eagar Kathryn Hughes Anna S. D. Johnson Hattie M. Ipson Carola S. Wurzback Pearl Cloward Ida von Nordeck Roberta Keller Clara Muggleson Effie Chipman Lenore T. Jones Margaret Vernieuw Fanny Litchfield Mrs. P. Magleby Elizabeth Bowen Naomi Ball Isabelle Hill Minnie Wheeler Hortense Carpenter Grace Meiling Alta Holt Nettie T. Oliverson Florence Sjoblom Selina Nerdin Ward Hilliard Buffalo Ogden 21st Glendale Redwood City Br. La Grande 2nd Melbourne Br. Elko Brisbane Br. Rapid City Br. Phoenix 4th Basin Br. Olympia Garcia Imbler Tyrell's Lake Br. Cody Br. Charleston Alexandria Br. New Orleans Br. Baldwin Park Pittsburgh Br. Pacheco Baker Clinton Tracy Br. San Antonio Juarez Penrose Arlington Tempe Fullerton Center Hanna Br. Powell Ruth Highland Fairview Br. Springdale Santa Maria Bundaberg Br. Wells Grass Valley Acequia Burlingame Santa Barbara Bankstown Br. Palmyra Alameda Grand Island Br. Fort Worth RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 867 GROUP C (Enrollment 1 to 49 inclusive) Stake Woodruff Eastern States Mis. Ogden Phoenix San Francisco Union Australian Mis. Nevada Australian Mis. Western States Mis. Phoenix Big Horn Seattle Juarez Union Taylor Big Horn Wasatch Texas Mis. Texas Mis. San Bernardino Eastern States Mis. Juarez Union Weber Sacramento Texas Mis. Juarez Big Horn Hollywood Maricopa Long Beach Wasatch Western States Mis. Big Horn Nevada Alpine Eastern States Mis. Burley Calif. Mis. Australian Mis. Nevada Gridley Minidoka San Francisco Calif. Mis. Australian Mis Eastern States Mis. Oakland Western States Mis. Texas Mis. 12 9 42 16 15 45 Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 225 211 210 188 187 182 173 172 172 169 160 156 156 155 150 150 148 147 144 144 141 140 138 136 136 136 135 134 133 132 132 132 130 130 129 128 127 127 126 125 125 124 123 123 121 120 120 120 119 119 118 Magazine Agent Ella Malby Naomi G. Joy Elizabeth Jacobs Julia Kremer Charlotte Showers Emma Stringham Grace Bartlett Fawn S. Noren May Brown Mable Thomas Belle Herndon Lova Kinghorn Mary Andrus Ida Kartchner Jessie Perry Clara E. Selk Ethel Brailsford Mary Casper Martha Hanks Gwen Wrathall Margaret Cluff Nettie Shurtliff Angeline Child Sarah Dana Mildred Farnsworth Delilah M. Wasden Edith O. Cowan Mable Cluff Elena Smith Bertha Sweat Margaret Dexter Bertha Cozzens Nina Kraft Emily Hyde Mollie Stoops Hattie Marchant Reta Johnson Mary Wilson Nellie Hyde Sylvia Jensen Ella Harrison Ruth Bentley Louise Haberlitz Rose Foote Maude Collins MaRee Meuter Maude O. West 868 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GROUP C—Continued Ward Bellingham Fish Haven Gilbert Vallejo Burlington Unity Ventura Daniels Racine No. Hollywood Houston Br. Milwaukee So. Br. Chester Fairfield Croydon Cedron Colton Br. Montello Br. Hobart Br. Scofield Br. Firestone Park Milwaukee Pasadena Belle Fourche Br. Pleasant Grove 2nd Eden Heber Lost River Lago Adelaide Br. Victorville Br. Balboa Sublett Rosette Pendleton Mt. View San Rafael Herriman Perry University Boise 4th Superior Welling Flowell Elysian Park Boise 2nd Slaterville Harper Wendover Br. Woodland Alpine Ballard Stake Seattle Bear Lake Maricopa Oakland Big Horn Burley Calif. Mis. Malad Chicago Pasadena Texas Mis. Chicago Yellowstone Blaine Morgan Teton San Bernardino Mt. Ogden Australian Mis. Carbon Los Angeles Chicago Pasadena Western States Mis. Timpanogos Ogden Snowflake Lost River Bannock Australian Mis. San Bernardino San Francisco Raft River Curlew Union Lyman San Francisco West Jordan Box Elder Seattle Boise Maricopa Taylor Millard Pasadena Boise No. Weber Box Elder Tooele Portland St. Johns Roosevelt Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 17 20 118 35 41 117 24 28 117 24 27 117 45 52 116 37 43 116 20 23 115 13 15 115 13 15 115 36 41 114 25 28 114 14 16 114 45 51 113 23 26 113 16 18 113 15 17 113 15 17 113 15 17 113 8 9 113 22 25 112 17 19 112 43 48 111 35 39 111 111 48 53 110 30 33 110 21 23 110 21 23 110 20 22 110 10 11 110 10 11 110 43 47 109 11 12 109 11 12 109 12 13 108 14 15 107 13 14 107 41 43 106 36 38 106 34 36 106 32 34 106 32 34 106 18 19 106 16 17 106 40 42 105 39 41 105 38 40 105 21 22 105 19 20 105 19 20 105 27 28 104 25 26 104 Magazine Agent Ella M. Petrie Harriet G. Jensen Donnett Fuller Ida Fullen Dorothy Yorgason Juliana Nielson Genevieve Robinson Louise Gilgen Martha Hubert Louise Phippen Vivian Hart Julia Worrell Annie C. Thurber Hilda Stevens Leatha Kunz Anna Wildman Gertrude Jordan Mrs. M. J. Quinn Frances W. Helsten Elizabeth Winkler Elsie Schuette Jane Gottfredson Sadie Meredith Effa Williams Janet Ferrin Ora Despain Alice Noble Sadie Mickelson Mrs. G. A. Latter Margaret Robison Fredrekka Duffner Sylvia Olsen Edna Palmer Emily Hart Effa Graham Louise Bernards Agnes Dansie Ida W. Thorne Vera Leishman Lillis H. Melander Frances Linn Elizabeth Bullock Ruth Allen Zelda Shipley Irene Hayes Sylvia S. Knight Frewtrilla Yates Emily Bruner May Cottrel Jessie Jepson Ellen Bracken Ward Geneva Milo Torrance Malta Burton San Jose Lehi La Grande 2nd Duncan No. Long Beach Riverton 1st Joseph City Bluffdale Oakland Pella Sunset Wilmington Eastmont Caliente Stockton Daniels Center University North Park Thatcher Leland Egin Palisade Hayward Palmyra Grant Richmond Whitewater Br. Palo Alto Martinez Mapleton Pittsburg Br. Howell Preston 5th Nat'l City Br. Richie Central Utah Carlin Bates Evans Br. Pine Raymond Portola Br. Beaver Creek Br. Leadore Branch Tensleep Stake Montpelier No. Ida. Falls Long Beach Raft River Rexburg San Francisco Maricopa Union Mt. Graham Long Beach West Jordan Snowflake West Jordan Oakland Burley San Francisco Long Beach Los Angeles Moapa Sacramento Wasatch Salt Lake Chicago Calif. Mis. Bannock Palmyra Yellowstone Rigby Oakland Palmyra Los Angeles Oakland Calif. Mis. San Francisco Oakland Franklin Oakland Bear River Franklin Calif. Mis. Ida. Falls Bannock Duchesne Nevada Teton Box Elder Maricopa Montpelier Calif. Mis. Ida. Falls Lost River Big Horn RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 869 GROUP C—Continued Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 26 26 26 104 104 104 103 103 103 103 102 102 101 101 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Magazine Agent Rosetta Teuscher Emily Palmer Helga Pankey Alice O. Neddo Mary Ellison Annie A. Briggs Elizabeth Horsfield Lola Williams Scrilda Wode Ione Packer Inez Nell Cleo Page Stella Cummins Ida Hardman Elizabeth Bergman Alice Freer Millie Johnson Ada Parkin Elsie Ashlock Leah Williams Olive Sattler Sarah Price Eva Gledhill Ingeborg Friberg Violet Bradley Wilda Rasmussen Eleanor Creer Eva Dexter Mattie Nelson Armorel Wells Lois Roach Marie Jenkins Augusta Morley Sarah E. Thompson Leah Martin Lillian Abbott Afton Long Ann Miller Presidency Pearl G. Geisler Georgiana Grimley Bertha Cooper Emma Hanson Ruth Broadhead Charlotte Ferguson Sady Furniss Alice Buxton Ina P. Hunt Eleanor Saxton Lenore Maxwell Wanda Willis Annie Duncan 870 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Bluff Lindon Warner Br. Grant Napa Br. Tonopah Uintah Allison Br. Perth Br. Carlsbad Br. White River Woolahra Br. Oyster Bay Br. Palm Springs Br. Ward Adams Blanding Lovell West Evanston 1st Edgehill Forest Dale Spring City Snowflake Yale Ogden 12th Pocatello 3rd Thirty-first Whittier St. Johns Belvedere Glendale Logan Ninth Bountiful 1st Pima Eighth Pocatello 1st Thirty-third Magna Provo 5th Brigham 3rd Cowley San Juan Snowflake Taylor Portneuf Oakland Calif. Mis. Mt. Ogden Western States Mis. Australian Mis. Western States Mis. Snowflake Australian Mis. Australian Mission Calif. Mis. 13 13 13 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 WARDS 75% TO 99% INCLUSIVE GROUP A (Enrollment 100 or over) Stake Hollywood San Juan Big Horn Woodruff Highland Granite No. Sanpete Snowflake Bonneville Mt. Ogden Pocatello Liberty Wells St. Johns Wells Pasadena Cache So. Davis St. Joseph Liberty Pocatello Bonneville Oquirrh Provo Box Elder Big Horn 113 147 121 110 102 116 114 121 105 145 123 137 124 100 113 127 111 107 139 112 137 106 121 117 110 105 Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 96 Beatrice Nielson Leora Kartchner Hope Shaffer Rachel Anderson Mrs. Virgil Swenson Clara Lytle Ellen Stoker Lucinda Cardon Eunice Compton Irene Wilkinson Mrs. John White Mrs. C. Burroughs Myra McInerney Velma White Magazine Agent Carrie Ainge Dora Wright Mildred Despain Martha Johnston Gail Clayton Norma Woolf Nell Nyberg Emma Hall Tina Gardner Esther L. White Madge Cassity Florence Farr Rozilla Tolman Lily Haines Kathrine Sturgell Mary W. Waters Violet Ostler Elizabeth Waste Verna C. Jackson Minnie Lawson Freda Cluff Abbie L. Jorgensen Rita Austin Hattie Axelson Ina Hansen May H. Snow Agnes O. Stander Leona Fowler RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 871 GROUP B (Enrollment 50 to 99 Inclusive). Ward Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Magazine Agent Afton North Star Valley 69 66 96 Louise Frome Midway 2nd Wasatch 64 60 94 Susanna Probst Ogden 8th Ogden 96 89 93 Ada Taylor Ogden 11th Weber 69 64 93 Birdie Fowers Boise 1st Boise 79 73 92 Signa Pecora West Bountiful So. Davis 55 50.5 92 Chloe M. Arbuckle Rexburg 4th Rexburg 75 68 91 Isabell Blunck Inglewood Hollywood 68 62 91 Maurine B. Malm Mayfield Gunnison 57 52 91 Amelia C. Larson Ogden 6th Ogden 94 84 89 Gertrude Hays Ririe Rigby 73 65 89 Eliza Durant Maeser Uintah 55 49 89 Mabel Ashby San Bernardino San Bernardino 75 66 88 Ruth Irwin Hollywood Pasadena 64 56 88 Charlotte O'Conner Ogden 2nd Weber 82 71 87 Ethel McCarty Washington Br. Eastern States Mis. 69 60 87 Mina Whittle Byron Big Horn 67 58 87 Sally Griffin Emerson Highland 87 75 86 Agnes Kirk Ida. Falls 6th Idaho Falls 67 57.5 86 Phoebe Peterson Twenty-second Salt Lake 65 56 86 Lucy W. Holmes Midway 1st Wasatch 52 45 86 Ada D. Bonner Rexburg 3rd Rexburg 52 44.5 86 Margaret Pearson Mission San Francisco 51 44 86 Mrs. J. Kennison St. George West St. George 95 81 85 Alice Hamilton Pocatello 2nd Pocatello 89 76 85 Florence Wright Burton Wells 66 56 85 Mary Mendenhall Rigby 1st Rigby 91 75 84 Elizabeth West South Gate Los Angeles 86 72 84 Naomi Whale Salmon Lost River 83 69 83 Emma Bacus Hyrum 3rd Hyrum 81 67 83 Luella Birch Waterloo Wells 66 54.5 83 Hanna Clements American Fork 4th Alpine 64 53 83 Grace Coates North Pocatello Pocatello 54 45 83 Caroline Stewart Preston 6th Franklin 54 46 83 Mrs. B. Golightly Williamson Texas Mis. 53 44 83 Fifteenth Salt Lake 94 77.5 82 Mary Price Las Vegas Moapa 94 77 82 Maranda Craner Magrath 2nd Taylor 89 73 82 Frances Taylor Provo 6th Utah 88 72 82 Jane B. Evans Fillmore 2nd Millard 67 55 82 Manilla Brunson Vermont Los Angeles 66 55 82 Martha Jeffs Logan 2nd Logan 66 54 82 Inez Thain Spencer Oquirrh 56 46 82 Ethel Poulton Lindon Timpanogos 55 46 82 Edah Allred La Point Uintah 50 41 82 Grace Lambert Evanston 2nd Woodruff 74 60 81 Edith Davis Huntsville Ogden 78 63 81 Nell McKay Pocatello 6th Pocatello 57 46 81 Alta G. Bingham Bountiful 3rd So. Davis 97 78 80 Emma T. Riley Malad 3rd Malad 80 64 80 Jemima Opperman Twenty-ninth Salt Lake 80 64 80 Hillevi Daniels Circleville Garfield 78 62.5 80 Elsie Simkins 872 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GROUP B—Continued Ward Springdale Twin Falls 1st Gridley Tremonton 2nd Wells St. George East Spanish Fork 3rd Garden Park Prescott Br. Lincoln Oakley 2nd Grantsville Second Fillmore Timpanogos Roy Oak City Elwood Compton Centerville 1st Yalecrest Preston 3rd Shelley 1st Raymond 2nd Parowan East Calgary Vernal 1st Holden Idaho Falls 3rd Windsor Richfield 3rd Storrs Ogden 22nd Lake Shore Ward Hercules Redondo Claremont Dublan Fresno Branch Enmore Branch West Side Las Vegas Woodruff Kimball Showlow Basin Woodland Branch Riverton Zion Park 60 48 80 Twin Falls 75 60 80 Gridley 50 40 80 Bear River 94 75 79 Wells 80 63.5 79 St. George 101 79 78 Palmyra 86 67 78 Bonneville 83 65 78 Calif. Mis. 72 56 78 Idaho Falls 59 46 78 Cassia 54 42 78 Tooele 78 60 77 Millard 91 70 77 Sharon 79 61 77 Weber 66 52 77 Deseret 60 46 77 Bear River 57 44 77 Long Beach 56 43 77 So. Davis 99 75.5 76 Bonneville 93 71 76 Oneida 85 65 76 Shelley 82 62 76 Taylor 80 61 76 Parowan 74 56 76 Lethbridge 54 41 76 Uintah 97 73 75 Millard 77 58 75 Idaho Falls 70 52.5 75 Timpanogos 70 52 75 Sevier 68 51 75 Carbon 64 48 75 Weber 55 41 75 Palmyra 53 40 75 GROUP C (Enrollment 1 to 49 Inclusive) Oquirrh 28 27.5 98 Long Beach 27 26.5 98 Oakland 48 46.5 97 Juarez 39 38 97 California Mission 31 30 97 Australian Mission 28 27 96 Moapa 29 26 96 Snowflake 38 36 95 Shelley 22 21 95 Snowflake 31 29 94 Cassia 16 15 94 Sacramento 16 15 94 Blackfoot 27 25 93 Magazine Agent Nora C. Jolley Lenore Carroll Florence Jensen Edith Fuller Stella Widdison Effie Syphus Estella Christopherson Rena Bjorklund Veda Scott Helen Jensen Mary Stowers Glenna Millward Pearl Seguine Emma Stratton Jane Hyden Rachel Roper Mrs. Carl Romer Mavis Larson Ella Evans Genevieve Arnspiger Myrtle Anderson Esther Christensen Elsie Smith Josephine Paramore Helen Faulkner Ruvina Stone Elva Johnson Viola Edwards Mary B. Hales Everdiena C. Winkel Josephine McPhie Ruby Wilson Martha Simmons Magazine Agent Fannie Little Lennie Evans Clara Gleason Bernice Coon Charlotte Ursenbach Margaret Rood Cleora Jarrett Margaret Turley Florence Gifford Sarah M. Willis Nellie Martin Mrs. K. F. Gordon Cassie Brown Stake Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Ward Bern Copperfield Merrill Chandler Oakley Third Roseville Davis Kanesville Renton Branch Nampa First Albuquerque Branch Superior Picture Butte Murtaugh Etna Veyo Oakley First Grace Second Young Chuichupa Lincoln Richville Altoona Branch Riverton Branch Marriott Springfield Elberta Wardboro Clay Springs Diamondville Cleveland Coalingo Branch Ivins Moulton Binghamton Branch Garden City Susanville Branch Sunnyside Adamsville Flagstaff Branch Lyman Peterson Marsh Center Winslow Laketown Kirtland Marion Kanarra Bridgeland Waco Branch McNary Merced Branch RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 873 GROUP C—Continued Stake Montpelier West Jordan Portneuf Maricopa Cassia Sacramento Uintah Weber Seattle Nampa Western States Mis. Lyman Lethbridge Roosevelt Star Valley St. George Cassia Bannock Logan Juarez Seattle Morgan Eastern States Mis. Western States Mis. North Weber Blackfoot Santaquin-Tintic Montpelier Snowflake Woodruff Bannock California Mission St. George Raft River Eastern States Mis. Bear Lake California Mission Carbon Beaver Snowflake Rexburg Morgan Portneuf Snowflake Bear Lake Young Cassia Parowan Duchesne Texas Mission Snowflake California Mission Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 92 92 92 91 91 Magazine Agent Marintha Bienz Gladys Scroggin LaVene Pilgrim Helen Cluff Lavina Critchfield Nellie Boller Alice Gurr Aline Hansen Marie M. Kent Florence R. Adams Anna Davis Nora Hansen Luella Hague Annie Goodman Rozelia Cozier Esther Chadburn Helen Lee Mildred Ray Emma Speth Cora Judd Wilma Pike Lillie Clark Blanche Ruggles Hazel Dalley Sarah H. Parry Minnie Thurston Harriet E. Barney Evva Dalrymple Belle McCleve Neva Querry Mary Anderson Sallie Thomas Lula Tobler Julia H. Clark Lettie Elliott Irene Reed Eleanor Hansen Ruby Hanson Sara Jones Martha Thomas Rita Allen Nancy Bowman Martha Treasure Mrs. Ray Wakefield Oreta Satterthwaite Mae W. Bond Sarah Adams Frances Williams Clara Young Celia H. Gardner Nora Johnson 874 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GROUP C—Continued Ward Shumway Logan Square West Seattle Farnum Mt. Trumbell Independence Wanship Manhattan Swan Lake Leeds Lark Branch Twenty-third Williams Chico Br. Canandaigua Branch Reading Branch Riverside Firth Yuba City Rupert First Pingree Wrentham Branch Ovid Eden Kimball Mt. Tabor El Sereno Milburn Virgin Bloomfield Whitney View Omaha Branch Liberty Osmond Challis Hatch Calgary Queen Ann Granite Ashurst Emery No. Denver Branch Santa Clara Archer Holbrook Cherry Creek Sharon Lordsburg Branch Pine Valley Dines Scranton Branch Stake Snowflake Chicago Seattle Yellowstone St. George Rexburg Summit New York Portneuf St. George West Jordan Salt Lake Bannock Gridley Eastern States Mis. Eastern States Mis. Blackfoot Shelley Gridley Minidoka Blackfoot Taylor Bear Lake St. Joseph St. Joseph Portland Pasadena North Sanpete Zion Park Young Franklin Burley Western States Mis. Ogden Star Valley Lost River Idaho Lethbridge Seattle East Jordan St. Joseph St. Joseph Western States Mis. St. George Rexburg Snowflake Malad Bear Lake Mt. Graham St. George Lyman Eastern States Mis. 12 49 10 Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 83 82 Magazine Agent Ruth Davis Margaret Kerr Bertha Hansen LeVera Hendrickson Jona Shelley Pauline Perry Bessie Hixon Elfriede Kuehne Marie Henderson Dallice Hartman Lillis Sandstrom Jennie Smith Martha Kingford Lucile Bennett Nellie Lodge Pearl D. Yeager Christine Kirwan Ingeborg Balstead Mabel Hayter Agnes Davidson Sarah E. Cammack Vera Erickson Delma Sorensen Carrie Thatcher Mary Connelly Dorothy Peterson Hannah Alyslanalp Rebecca Stewart Lola Cornelius Ellen Reid Iona Oliverson Verl W. Wrigley Ida H. Higbee Irma B. Holmes Nora Harrison Mabel Howell Valeria Johnson Helen Faulkner Etta Eskelsen Emma Beckstead Hazel Bryce Lucy Chesley VaLoie Hill Eliza Gubler Leah Briggs Mrs. Pratt Greer Merl Moon Hazel Long Leta F. B. Howard Maud Gardner Helen Bell Lavinia Weidow RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, DECEMBER - 875 STAKES 75% OR OVER Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Phoenix 266 385 145 Ensign 796 1025 129 Maricopa 548 658 120 Juarez 121 139 115 Union 234 263.5 113 Oakland 481 534.5 111 Ogden 899 961 107 San Francisco 324 347 107 Granite 575 579.5 101 Big Horn 606 605 100 Long Beach 482 471 98 Wasatch 490 469 94 Weber 625 588 94 Hollywood 519 484 93 Nevada 362 338 93 San Juan 315 291 92 Boise 230 216 89 Bonneville 571 494 87 Palmyra 636 553 87 Cassia 179 153 85 Idaho Falls 503 428 83 Snowflake 584 486 83 Chicago 214 177 82 Duchesne 207 169.5 81 St. Johns 311 251 81 Utah 582 473 81 Burley 508 400 79 Wells 979 775.5 79 Salt Lake 949 752 79 Pocatello 844 654 77 Sacramento 279 216 77 San Bernardino 254 195 77 Liberty 915 696 76 Mt. Ogden 659 509 76 Bannock 297 224 75 Franklin 621 461 75 Los Angeles 739 552 75 Minidoka 539 293 75 Taylor 445 330.5 75 MISSIONS 75% OR Mission Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Australian 129 182 141 Santa Barbara District California Mission 72 67 93 Nevada Dist., Cal. Mis. 242 200 83 Fresno Dist., Cal. Mis. 75 61 81 Monterey Bay District California Mission 40 32 80 N. Ariz. Dist., Cal. Mis. 72 56 78 OVER Magazine Agent Zina Dana Camilla Halladay Amy P. Morris Jennie Bowman Mildred Snider Vida S. Allen Lois D. Smith Naomi S. MacCabe Pearl H. Crockett Ann Gwynn Ethel Spongberg Lillie L. Duke Mabel C. Ellis LaVina L. Rohner Ramona Watson Caroline N. Redd LaVon L. Dalton Bernice Duffin Lenora Gulf Jennie R. Hale Della Rowberry Coral S. Peterson Fanny R. Bradley Eliza J. Gilbert Laura Farr Day Irma M. Mitchell Nellie R. Barlow Eleanor S. Muir Clara B. Wright Gladys G. Merrill Marie Gibby Naomi Larsen Mary A. Coulam Laurel M. Dickson Hattie Hogan Jeanette S. Barton Zilla Major Pearl Brewerton Theta R. Sabey Magazine Agent Violet Cook Lillian Johnson Marcia G. Davis Charlotte Ursenbach Irene Sorenson Veda Scott 876 - DECEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 10 HIGHEST STAKES ACCORDING TO NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Magazine Agent Ensign 796 1,025 129 Camilla Halladay Ogden 899 961 107 Lois D. Smith Wells 979 775.5 79 Eleanor S. Muir Salt Lake 949 752 79 Clara B. Wright Liberty 915 696 76 Mary A. Coulam Maricopa 548 658 120 Amy P. Morris Pocatello 844 654 77 Gladys G. Merrill Big Horn 606 605 100 Ann Gwynn Weber 625 588 94 Mabel C. Ellis Granite 575 579.5 101 Pearl H. Crockett Long Live Your Poinsettia (Continued from page 820) the room dropped suddenly, or it may have been in the path of a cold draft. In this case, immerse the pot into warm water to remove the chill from the roots. Keep the plant in a part of the house where the temperature is likely to remain the same degree both day and night. Poinsettias are not continuous bloomers and will show signs of tiredness along in February—granting that you have taken proper care of them that long. The leaves will droop and fall as the rest period approaches. The shrub can then be cut down and the pot set away until about August. Its blooming time is over, and its sleepy time has come. In return for proper care, the poinsettia will preserve for you your Christmas joys until other plants have appeared to relieve the drowsy poinsettia and to take up the job of bringing happiness where the poinsettia has left off. Starting the Child Right Food plays such an important part in the up-bringing of healthy children that modern parents listen eagerly to the findings of experts. From all authoritative sources comes a chorus of praise for milk, as one of the most important foods for children. Milk combines in balanced form a great many of the health elements so essential to the proper growth and general well-being of active boys and girls. Authorities say that every child should have a quart of milk a day in some form, whether as a beverage or combined with other foods. Irradiated vitamin D milk is recognized as an excellent source of the precious sunshine vitamin which is essential to the building and nourishment of straight, strong bones and sound, even teeth. Science has come to our aid by enriching milk with vitamin D by irradiation with ultra-violet rays, like sun's rays. A quart of irradiated vitamin D milk every day will supply a normal child with the required amount of vitamin D for sturdy health. Make this A BOOK CHRISTMAS Give Books and the selection of your Christmas presents becomes a delight instead of a chore. You'll have just as much pleasure picking out the right books for the right people as your friends will when they receive and read them. Besides Books—we have a great variety of other Gift Articles—in fact, this is "the Store of a Thousand Gifts". We also have a complete stock of Relief Society supplies and lesson material. Make this friendly store your Gift and Book headquarters. Deseret Book Company Phone Wasatch 6967 Wouldn't Mother Like a New GAS RANGE For Christmas? For easier cooking at lower cost CONVENIENT TERMS Start Him Right Every child should have a quart of milk every day—to drink, or combined with other foods. Cloverleaf Milk brings the added benefit of an extra supply of sunshine vitamin D which helps build strong bones and sound teeth. It costs no more than ordinary milk Cloverleaf MOUNTAIN FUEL When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 44 East South Temple Perfectly Pasteurized Grade A Irradiated Vitamin D Milk Home of Fine Dairy Products Salt Lake City, Utah SUPPLY COMPANY Salt Lake — Ogden — Provo Serving 23 Utah Communities that will bring delight to your lady Christmas Tributes that will bring delight to your lady. Let the gift that carries your Christmas message of love and cheer be one of quality. It's the priceless ingredient that distinguishes every gift in ZCMI's glorious profusion, whether your choice is silverware at several dollars or several hundred, flattering perfume inexpensive or priceless, exquisite apparel much or moderately priced. Her delight in beauty and usefulness will be your constant pleasure for years to come. ZCMI Gift center of the west

