RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Volume XXIV JANUARY, 1937 No. 1
HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS From Factory To You—We Solicit Your Mail Orders
No. 88. Lt. Weight Men's and Ladies' New Style...$0.65 No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style...$1.10 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back...$1.45 No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style, Double Back...$1.50 No. 86. Extra Fine Rayon and Double Combed Yarn. Ladies' New Style Only...$1.25 No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles...$0.85
We Charge 10% Extra For Extra Sizes. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. We Mark Garments For 10c.
No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style...$0.85 No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Rayon, Men's and Ladies' New Style Only...$1.10 No. 83. Extra Fine Silk Rayon Double Combed Yarn. Better Than Part Wool. This Comes in Winter Weight Men's New Style...$1.65
New Style, Button Side. Guaranteed Non-Run Rayon. Ladies' Only...$1.25
Please Specify When Ordering Your Bust, Trunk and Length, Whether New or Old Style, and if Men's or Ladies'.
THIS IS ALSO THE PLACE TO OUTFIT THE MISSIONARY WITH ONE OF THOSE FAMOUS RAMBOUILLETTE SUITS
This is one of our Specials...$18.75 Rambouillette Serge. Extra Pants, $4.00 Single or Double Breast.
WE HAVE A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF HEAVY WORSTEDS AT $21.75 Extra Pants, $4.00
WE ALWAYS GIVE SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO THE MISSIONARY
14 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
SAFETY Invest of an Association SEMI-ANNUAL DIVIDEND FOR DECEMBER 31, 1936, JUST PAID
Plenty of Money to Loan at Attractive Rates and Long Terms
44 SO. MAIN ST. Desert Federal Savings & Loan Ass'n. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Free Booklet on Request Explaining Insured Shares
NEPHI L. MORRIS, President J. E. KJAR, Secretary
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Season's Greetings
PEERLESS LAUNDRY Complete Laundry Service Snow White Clothes Service Above All
SALT LAKE PROVO OGDEN PRICE PAYSON MANTI
DESERET MORTUARY CO.
Double Stamp Days Equal About 5% Saving
PALACE Market 277 1st South at 3rd East—17th South at 5th East South Temple at 2nd East
We Give and Redeem Discount Stamps
"We Feature" Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
1184 East 21st South Hyland 2182
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXIV JANUARY, 1937 No. 1
CONTENTS
Retrospect................................................Della Adams Leitner 1 Frontispiece................................................................ 2 Greetings................................................................... 3 Plains' Cradle Song........................................Veneta L. Nielsen 4 Love's Rose..............................................Bryce W. Anderson 5 A Present Day Challenge.................................Marianne Clark Sharp 6 Blossomed Tree.........................................Vesta Pierce Crawford 8 Hazel H. Greenwood.......................................Ruby W. Henderson 9 A New Year's Wish...........................................Ann Jarvis 12 Report on International Congress..........................Amy Brown Lyman 13 On the Trails of the Old Kaibab.............................Elsie C. Carroll 17 The Greater Death........................................Miranda Snow Walton 21 Moments of Eternity.....................................Lella Marler Hoggan 22 A Manger and a Barn....................................Eva Willes Wangsgard 24 The Seventh Writers' Conference in the Rocky Mountains...............Blanche Kendall McKey 28 An Ideal Method for Studying the New Testament.............Adena W. Swenson 33 Girls...................................................Vera Hinckley Mayhew 36 Notes from the Field......................................Julia A. F. Lund 40 Notes to the Field......................................................... 43 Happenings................................................Annie Wells Cannon 46 Editorials:................................................................ 47 The Work................................................................ 48 The Home................................................................ 49
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE ROUND OAK RANGE $69.50 "America's Finest" Ask Mother; She Knows
GRANITE FURNITURE Co. 1050 East 21st South Sugar House Out of the high rent district Murray Park City
VANITY FOOTWEAR There's A Style For Every Taste —January— SALE NOW ON 20% to 30% off All Styles—All Kinds—All Sizes $2.95 to $4.95
WHIPPLE'S SLIPPER SHOPPE
TEMPLE BRAND L. D. S. GARMENTS
36 years experience insures quality and gives you underwear at reasonable prices.
REMEMBER—We pay Postage to any place in the United States
We are the Manufacturers of ALL APPROVED L. D. S. GARMENTS
No. Regular Style For Women No. For Men 703 Flat Weave Spring Needle........................ $0.98 620 Medium Lt. Wt. Double Back........ $0.98 750 Non-Run Rayon................................. 1.00 610 Light Weight Spring Needle...... 1.10 719 Ribbed Med. Light Wt. Cotton.................. 1.10 602 Extra Fine Quality Lisle........ 1.25 762 Non-Run Rayon................................. 1.15 614 Medium Weight Extra Quality..... 1.25 734 Non-Run Super Bemberg Silk................... 1.35 634 Non-Run Super Bemberg Silk..... 1.35 760 Silk and Wool Medium Weight.................. 1.95 660 Silk and Wool Medium Weight.... 1.95
792 Fine Quality Cotton Lisle.................... 1.50 664 Med. Heavy Wt. Cot. Dbl. Back.. 1.50
Garments Marked Upon Request. 10c Per Pair Extra 20% Extra Charge for Sizes Over 48
Do not fail to specify New or Old Style and if for Man or Woman. Also state if long or short sleeves, short or long legs are wanted. Give accurate Bust Measurements, Height and Weight.
Samples Sent Upon Request.
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah—OLDEST KNITTING STORE IN UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
A Key to Health
Proper diet is one of the keys to health. Good bread forms a vital part of a balanced diet.
FISHERS VITAMIN 'D' BREAD is your best bread—eat more of it
A Product of the American Lady Baking Co. "The Big Home-Owned Bakery"
Hot Soups for Cold Days
A soup bone or beef short ribs slowly simmered with pearled barley, lentils, rice, split or whole peas make a soup that will take the chill out of zero weather.
When the weather isn't quite so cold select some of our garden fresh vegetables for a delicious vitamin rich soup.
O. P. SKAGGS FOOD "A Surety of Purity"
L. D. S. GARMENTS
No. 68. Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, Old Style 88¢—New Style $1.00 No. 500. Super Non-run Rayon, Short Sleeves and Knee Length $1.25 No. 70. Lt. Wt. Fine Combed Cotton, $1.00—No. 74. Extra fine Lt. Wt. $1.25 No. 173. Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton Silk Stripe, Ladies' New Style Only $1.50 No. 64. Med. Wt. Combed Cotton $1.10 No. 62. Hvy. Wt. Double Back Combed Cotton $1.25 No. 56. Extra Hvy. Wt. Double Back Combed Cotton $1.50 No. 82. 33 1-3% Wool $1.95 No. 92. 10% Wool Silk Stripe $1.95
CUTLER VALUES
Please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted; also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 10c. Postage prepaid. 20% extra for 48 and over.
Visit our smart new men's shop when in Salt Lake. Headquarters for missionaries.
CUTLER'S 36 So. Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah
BEST WISHES for a PROSPEROUS NEW YEAR
BLUE BLAZE COAL COMPANY 1111 Walker Bank Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Retrospect
By Della Adams Leitner
The old year ends and at his bier I stand. I feel the solemn hush that parting brings. The gladsome hours of happiness he gave I yield reluctantly. My memory clings To days that seemed too precious to depart; Days that revealed to me the strength of love, And tho I say, "Good bye, Old Year," I keep These treasures in my heart all else above.
He gave and took away. The balanced sheet I look upon in retrospect and know That tho the joys he brought me were most sweet, The debit side has grief and pain to show. And it is well. The recompense of tears Is greater value for the care free day, And I can thankful be that I have learned This truth to strengthen me along the way.
This welcome I will give the dawning year, Whatever it may hold I shall not fear.
HAZEL H. GREENWOOD
The Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XXIV JANUARY, 1937 No. 1
Greetings
1936 is going—1937 is nearly here! We are nearing another milestone—a time when we pause a moment to evaluate the past, to be thankful for all the lessons the Old Year has taught, and for the shining hopes the New Year brings. We are thankful that all the riches of faith and love and life, which came to us in the Old Year, can be carried over into the New, for out of the past will grow the strength needed for the future.
THE past year has been one of remarkable growth. The loyalty and devotion of the Stake and Ward Officers and Class Leaders have resulted in more of our union Meetings becoming real preparation meetings, and thus in the lessons given in each organization there has been added inspiration which has carried over into real living. Increased participation in lesson discussion on the part of Relief Society members has resulted in growth, for where there is action there is development. There has been an increase in the number of houses visited by the visiting teachers—which means that the spiritual message which they carry has touched more hearts. Our Magazine Agents have done wonderful work, and the Magazine, with its spiritual and cultural messages, is now being read in 41,500 homes.
THE response of the women to the call for aid in the Church Security Program has been wonderful. One can hardly believe that busy mothers and home makers could do so much. But when we love, we serve, and when we serve our love increases. So we are nearer today than before in keeping the first and greatest commandment—"Thou shalt love the Lord Thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy strength and with all thy mind: and thy neighbor as thyself."
OUR hearts have been touched by the singing of the "Singing Mothers." We appreciate the effort they have made to prepare for that sweet service which is so needed, for our Heavenly Father says: "The song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads."
WE wish also at this time to pay tribute to another group of Relief Society workers—the Relief Society husbands, for without their encouragement, cooperation and unselfish help the work could not be carried on.
4 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
AND so we face the New Year with a glow of anticipation of greater work yet to do. Let us get a glorious view of the New Year's work, knowing where we want it to lead, in what direction we want it to go, that our efforts may be purposeful—but always with a prayer in our hearts for inspiration that if there is anything our Father in Heaven would like us to learn, anything He would like us to do, that we will not miss it.
THERE are many miles that stretch between the Relief Society organizations of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, so that we cannot touch the hands of the members, but our hearts can be close together, and there is no limit to the reach of prayer, and so our prayers go out to each organization and each individual member for—
A HAPPY NEW YEAR TO YOU!!
Louise Y. Robison, Amy Brown Lyman, Kate M. Barker, General Presidency of Relief Society
PLAINS' CRADLE SONG
By Veneta L. Nielsen
(Awarded First Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest)
Beloved little sleepers, let Mother sing your sleep-song yet. If I leave you there alone, Cradled underneath a stone, It is not that I forget.
Could the wagon's creaking weight And the oxen's heavy gait Turn about and bring me back To you, all the pain-fraught track Borne again were precious freight.
Now the rain falls, dark with fears, Do my words reach Heaven's ears? Are you listening, and know That I sing again to you Not to be afraid, my Dears?
Never, never, as you rest There upon earth's languid breast Shall there be a moment I Walking on, will let you lie Unremembered and unblest.
Every looming, brooding rock Crouched before me as I walk Is some fortress where you creep Indian playing; when I sleep Every dream bears baby talk.
PLAINS' CRADLE SONG
Not a bird can rise and stir Dusk's fine air with singing whir But your voices fly to me. Luminous, again I see Two small faces through the blur.
I shall carry, as I go Hurt and aching, plodding slow Over every rutted mile, Every little childish smile, Every laugh, and tear, and know
If your palely-lidded eyes Search no more these alien skies For a gift of quail or grouse To our needy wagon house: God is good, and God is wise.
If my groping senses find Any pain unjust, or blind With bitterness, I weep. Rest, my little ones asleep; I remember, God is kind.
Beloved little sleepers, let Mother sing your sleep-song yet. If I leave you there alone Cradled underneath a stone, It is not that I forget.
LOVE'S ROSE
By Bryce W. Anderson
Take, then, this rose, and hold it tenderly Close to the throbbing of your hungry heart, With careful fingers, lest your eager grip Scatter its fragile loveliness apart.
Breathe not too deeply of its faint perfume, Lest that sweet odor come at last to pall On senses wearied by too much delight, And lost may be the wonder of it all.
Seek not to look too long upon its form, Lest, growing weary of familiar sight, Your eyes may stray to each more garish hue Until all color dulls to black of night.
Ask not too much, lest nectar turn to bile— The rose, once plucked, lives but a little while.
VENETA L. NIELSEN
A Present Day Challenge
By Marianne Clark Sharp
TO develop a desire in each citizen of this country to take an active part in the affairs of our government is important at any time; but just now when theories of government in our nation are so conflicting, it is especially important that each one of us does his part. There are at work in the world today forces which are seeking to overthrow government and law. Most of the European countries, inflamed by class or racial hatred, are thirsting for greater power and with little regard for the welfare of their fellow beings. We have peace in the United States, but a peace threatened by the same undermining forces of destruction. At this time we are asking the members of the Relief Society, especially, to bear their share in this struggle.
As members of this Church we know that we live in a land of promise. Over two thousand years before Christ it was proclaimed: "For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands; wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God or shall be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God. And it is not until the fulness of iniquity among the children of the land, that they are swept off." (Book of Mormon, Ether 2:10.)
May we do our part in keeping the fulness of iniquity from among the children of this land, or else we, too, will be swept off, as surely as were those to whom this pronouncement was given.
As members of this Church we also have recorded what the Lord has said concerning the Constitution of this land and the Constitutional Law. A hundred years ago our people were suffering grievous hardships at the hands of some of their fellow citizens. "That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him," the Lord declared in December, 1833, "for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." (D. And C., 101:78, 80.)
Four months earlier the Lord upheld the Constitutional Law, putting the blame for their troubles elsewhere: "And now, verily I say unto you concerning the laws of the land, it is my will that my people should observe to do all things whatsoever I command them.
"And that law of the land which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifiable before me.
"Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of my Church, in befriending that law which is the constitutional law of the land;
"And as pertaining to law of man, whatsoever is more or less than this cometh of evil.
"I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; and the law also maketh you free.
"Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the people mourn.
"Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye
A PRESENT DAY CHALLENGE 7
should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these cometh of evil." (D. And C., 98:4-10.)
Two years later, in 1835, the Church (in Section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants) puts itself on record as to its belief in law and government. The first verse we are all familiar with. It reads:
"We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society.
"We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life."
The latter verse explains the wars in Europe at the present time, for in the warring countries their people, not in accord with the ruling regime, are denied these three things: 1. The free exercise of conscience; 2. The right and control of property, and 3. The protection of life.
I must confess that until quite recently I took for granted the personal liberty which we enjoy in this country. These parts of the Doctrine and Covenants which I have quoted, and other parts, with the opinions we have of early Church leaders, seemed to me to belong to another time and generation. I now believe that only if we prayerfully follow the advice given us in these sections will we be able to combat the insidious forces arrayed all over the world against free governments. It is that same old pre-world struggle for free agency.
As I see it, we women of this country have not done all that we could with our vote. When we were striving for the franchise we promised almost a state of Utopia if we were granted it, and from what I can read, instead of changing the votes for the better, all we have done is swell the former totals. Very often this summer I heard women close a political discussion half apologetically— "Well, I really don't know enough about the question to vote intelligently." Our saying that "it is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance," certainly includes the women. We must arouse ourselves, and while helping out in local problems as most of us do— seeing that we get better schools and safer streets for our children—not suddenly discover that the government has taken over the training of our children. As mothers we should teach them to appreciate their liberty and guard our laws that they may not lose the freedom we inherited.
Let us study not only the national problems, but international ones as well, as they affect us, and seek earnestly the inspiration of the Lord in our actions, that we may do as He has instructed us: "Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these cometh of evil."
BLOSSOMED TREE
By Vesta Pierce Crawford
(Awarded Second Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest)
VESTA PIERCE CRAWFORD
Once more the orchard treads at her loom And finest threads the early weavers ply Are wefted in this plum tree's gauzy bloom With tracery of branches lifted high;
Oh make no echoed sound, walk softly now To see these petals glossed and satin pale, To see the flowers etched upon a bough As broidery upon a wedding veil.
Yet even now the blossoms fall and drift, Too brief are April's opalescent ways, The splendor of the trees exceeding swift; In this ephemeral hour springtime stays
I seek to hold the season's transient gift And garner beauty for unflowered days.
Hazel H. Greenwood
By Ruby W. Henderson
She was tall, her wondrous beauty of soul Enhanced and animated her stately mien. You felt her strength like unto the granite Of the hills around her childhood home.
Her genial humor was like the sparkling waters Of our crystalline mountain lakes. She had the courage and fortitude of a cedar That grows on the jutting cliff.
She had the sympathy and understanding Of a heart beaten upon by many sorrows. Her arms were ever lifted up toward the light. She gave freely of her splendid powers That good might triumph.
She was a leader, teacher, wife, and mother; Yet with all, she was so sweet, so dear a friend. —Nellie O. Parker.
THE above lines written for Sister Hazel Hill Greenwood beautifully express the thoughts of the many friends who knew her and loved her dearly. Her untimely death which occurred November 28, 1936, marks the passing of one of the most prominent, active, and beloved women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and of the State of Utah.
Her activities were varied and versatile. She never failed to give her best to any task assigned her or any duty devolving upon her. She measured up to the very highest as a daughter, sister, wife, mother, friend, church and civic worker.
I loved this friend of mine with a deep and glowing love. We spent many wonderful, joyous hours together. They were profitable hours, too, for she brought me a rich store of knowledge and understanding. I shall always treasure the memory of her adorable smile as she came to the door of my home, and when I opened it she had some witty remark so that there was always a laugh and a tender word of greeting at her entrance. We never parted that I did not offer a little prayer of thanksgiving for the close association of so noble and brilliant and tender a friend. To me her friendship was priceless.
I knew her innermost thoughts and ambitions. She was very humble and always underestimated her own abilities. She was deeply religious, with an abiding faith in God's purposes and His eternal justice. Her heart was tender and forgiving. Through all her sorrows and disappointments she showed a spiritual quality that was inspiring. In making adjustments she went on with head up, accepting the inevitable, believing in life, and grasping opportunities that one of a less courageous spirit would have insisted did not exist. I never knew her to be bitter or unforgiving. She was a happy, lovable disposition, wanting so to be kind and making other people happy. Yet in militant mood she was royal, and could fight
10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
for right and justice with all the intensity of her strong nature. I loved her in these moods. There is nothing more heartening than to see a person who has the courage of his convictions. Her faith in the Gospel helped her meet life with a determination to prepare for the life beyond. To do this Hazel followed these words of the poet:
"Let there be many windows in your soul, that all the glory of the universe may beautify it."
Her thirst for knowledge was never satiated. She studied constantly, taking Extension work and classes at the University, attending lectures, reading widely and intelligently. She believed with Longfellow that:
"The heights by great men reached and kept, Were not attained by sudden flight, But they while their companions slept Were toiling upward through the night."
HER brilliant mind gathered knowledge and sifted great truths tirelessly. One of the most beautiful companionships I have ever known was fostered between Hazel and Judge Greenwood because of this wonderful quality. They read books of philosophy, religion, fiction, travel, magazine articles, government administration, and it was a great source of satisfaction to the Judge to have such an able intellect always ready to discuss and argue over points of interest to him. She brought to the discussion a keen insight and ready wit that was a great delight to her brilliant husband. We often visited them of an evening and found them deep in a discussion of this sort, or talking over public affairs, political conditions, and government problems. Before Judge Greenwood's illness it was their custom to walk out in the early evening and call on neighbors and friends. I like to think of them together coming up the walk, Hazel so buoyant and happy, the Judge smiling. Their visit to our house was always an event, a delightful half-hour or more that left us stimulated and refreshed. Her splendid qualities of mind were only a part of the wonderful attributes that contributed to this companionship.
SHE was a comely woman and her husband was very proud of her. She was always well groomed, a good housekeeper and thrifty manager, an excellent cook, often made her own clothes; and her clever fingers fashioned lamp shades, pillows, flowers, knick-knacks of all sorts to beautify her home, adorn her person, and as gifts to her loved ones and friends. Her home was her shrine. He was proud of her accomplishments, and gave her encouragement and valuable advice and assistance in her outside activities which were many and varied. The last two years of his life he was ill, and she was untiring in her tender care and devotion to him, and when he passed on, Grant, her son, was her comfort and strength. The devotion between the two was inspiring; his thoughtful consideration of her happiness was a source of great joy and satisfaction to her. Her brothers and sisters loved her dearly. Only the Friday before she went to the hospital her brother Louis went to her home, and they went together to visit their sister, Mrs. Rockwood. Hazel told me about it and said, "We had such a good time together. I love them all so much. It's a grand privilege to be a member of a large family." Her widowed sister said, "How can I live without Hazel! She was so
HAZEL H. GREENWOOD 11
good to me." She was so good to everyone. Her own deep sorrows and disappointments gave her an understanding heart that helped her sympathize with the troubles of others.
HAZEL was a born leader and organizer. The first time I saw her she was presiding at a Parent-Teachers Meeting at the Emerson School, and I was impressed with her dignity and graciousness and strong personality. Later, it was my good fortune to be called on the Liberty Stake Relief Society Board, and I met her again as Sister Myrtle Shurtliff's secretary. When Sister Shurtliff resigned a year later, Sister Hazel H. Greenwood was called to succeed her. She chose Sister Ida D. Rees and myself as her counselors. I have been most grateful for the honor and opportunities that came to me at that time; but infinitely more grateful for the precious friendship with this noble woman that grew out of that association. The wisdom and tact with which she administered the business of the board and affairs of the Relief Society of the Stake made for perfect harmony and highest working efficiency in every phase of the work. One of her Board Members said, "She unconsciously gave out a radiant joy that leavened the entire organization and made each one of us eager to do our best in every assignment." Her ready wit and laughter have smoothed out many a strained situation. I like to remember the happy, clever fun-fests we have enjoyed together and can almost hear Hazel's hearty laugh now at some of the stunts and ridiculous games played. We came away each time loving each other and our work better.
Her call to the General Board of the Relief Society was inevitable. A woman of such outstanding qualifications of leadership and spirituality would be in a position to give invaluable service to many stakes instead of one. She accepted that call with the greatest humility and appreciation. I have heard Stake Presidents tell of the spiritual uplift, the understanding and sympathetic help she has given them in convention work with their problems. She seemed to have the faculty of glorifying the common-place and making others, no matter how humble, feel that they were worth while. She gave unstinted praise. Her charm and intellect, her deep spirituality, her refreshing sense of humor and her understanding heart have endeared her to the women of every Stake she has visited. We are told she was a most valuable committee member because of her splendid powers of concentration on the subject at hand. The members of the General Board of Relief Society loved and admired and knew her worth. They have lost a most valuable worker. At her funeral service Apostle Ballard expressed in behalf of the First Presidency and Council of Twelve a deep regret and sense of loss to the Church at her passing.
Mrs. Greenwood was elected president of the Women's Legislative Council a year ago last March, and has administered its affairs with great dignity, tact, and efficiency since assuming office. I quote from the "In Memoriam" of the Council read at Memorial services held for her Thursday, December 3, at the Hotel Utah Ballroom: "To the members of the Council Mrs. Greenwood was more than a President: she was a true friend, fair in all deliberations and decisions, an outstanding executive of rare ability, and an indefatigable worker. Harmony was always sought.
12 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Her highest aspiration was for security, not only in the nation and the state, but especially of the home. To accomplish these ideals she devoted much of her life's efforts. She was unstinting in praise, reluctant to criticize, always just, sympathetic and tolerant of human frailties. The center of her spiritual life was her faith in God which was reflected in her faith in humanity."
She was an active worker in the politics of the State, being a member of the Democratic party. She and Judge Greenwood were intimately associated with the late Governor Dern during his administration, and were close friends of Governor and Mrs. Blood. In March, 1935, after the adjournment of the State Legislature the Governor's Committee of Nine began its activities. There were appointed three members from the House of Representatives, three from the Senate, and three chosen by the Governor. Because of her splendid ability and training for public service and social work, Mrs. Greenwood had the distinction of being the only woman chosen by the Governor on this committee. It was their function to study State problems and make recommendations to the next legislature. Her assignment was to investigate the private charities receiving aid or appropriations from the State. The Governor and members of the committee congratulated her on her thorough investigation and intelligent report, which was handed in only a couple of weeks before her death.
Her activities extended into study and social groups where her richness of mind and charming personality endeared her to each member. Her hosts of friends mourn her passing.
Death reaches not a spirit such as thine— It can but steal the robe that hid thy wings. Though thy warm breathing presence we resign, Still in our heart its loving semblance clings. —Holmes.
A NEW YEAR'S WISH
By Ann Jarvis
Years pass and take their toll but touch you not, My parents dear, the truest friends I own. Instead, although swift, vengeful Time has flown On wings of wind with poisoned spears death-fraught And bearing in his hands the fatal draught; Each passing season rather seems to loan You both more hardihood. The seeds you've sown In youth have blossomed in each wedded heart. Since you have weathered storms without a qualm And proved yourselves congenial as a team, My wish is that as lovers arm in arm And as a leaf floats gently down the stream, You two will live in deep autumnal calm And make of Life just one sweet happy dream.
Report on International Congress
By Amy Brown Lyman
COUNSELOR Amy Brown Lyman represented the Relief Society and Young Woman's Mutual Improvement Association at the International Council of Women's Triennial Meeting, held at Dubrovnik, Yugoslavia, September 28 to October 9, 1936. She sent a very exhaustive report of her trip and the meetings, some portions of which we print herewith.
WHEN it was decided to hold this meeting in Yugoslavia, the Yugoslavia National Council thought Dubrovnik would be a much more interesting place than Belgrade, the Capital, because it is a typical medieval city, centuries old, and the old part of the city is as it has always been. Belgrade, on the other hand, is a new modern city since the war. It was literally destroyed at that time and has since been practically rebuilt. It is called the modern concrete city of Yugoslavia.
Dubrovnik, however, does not have enough hotel accommodations nor transportation facilities to take care of such a convention. Dubrovnik, anciently known as Ragusa, was founded in the seventh century. It was one of the smallest republics that ever existed. It is located on the beautiful Adriatic Sea backed by huge mountains. The old wall is from thirty to forty feet high. It is intact and surrounds the city in a circular form from the mountains on one side to those on the other. There is a tall tower in the center of the city which was used anciently as a "look-out." And on one of the side walls there is a huge arsenal. The main street, King Peter Street, is about as wide as one of our avenues and is about one mile long. The other streets are all narrower—not more than eleven feet wide. They are all paved with stone. The rest of the place in this city is occupied by tall dwellings which look like great tenements all joined together. Each family owns its own suite of rooms. Wagons and automobiles are not allowed in the old city. The streets are too narrow and the people are too numerous. The food, merchandise, etc., are hauled about in hand-carts. They did, however, allow Lady Aberdeen's car to drive down the main street to our meeting places. You enter in the city through a beautiful archway. The main buildings are the Doge's Palace, which, it is said, rivals the Doge's Palace in Venice, the Bishop's Palace, two old Cathedrals and the Theater. On every hand are beautiful archways and sculptured friezes. The theater resembles very much the old Salt Lake Theater with its parquet and three circles, the latter made up entirely of boxes which are all completely separated and are entered each by its own respective door. The boxes each hold six people. The old market, almost in the center of the town, is still used and is most interesting. The newer part of the city is built outside the walls and looks much like any ordinary city. Most of our meetings were held in the old city, in the Theater and the Town Hall. The committee meetings were held in a modern normal school building outside the wall.
14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Business hours in Dubrovnik are from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. and from 3:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. The banks open for the public promptly at 4:00 p.m. During the noon recess the people eat luncheon and visit. In the evening they promenade through the main street, and you cannot imagine anything gayer and more colorful than King Peter Street at night. It is here that young people meet in their Sunday best clothes, dance, fall in love, etc.
Richard the Lion Hearted was ship-wrecked near Dubrovnik, 700 years ago on his way home from the Holy land where he went with the Crusades, and was rescued by the people. In gratitude he left funds to build a church. This year (August) King Edward VIII visited the place. He created quite a sensation and won the hearts of everybody. The Duke and Duchess of Kent also visited here this summer and are planning on building a chateau somewhere near on the sea. It is said that this coast country will in time rival the Italian Riviera. Yugoslavia, like the other Balkan Countries, is doing everything possible to attract tourists. The people are anxious to know the world and they would like to have the world know them. They have been brought up through wars and tribulations and have been controlled first by one nation and then another. They are now anxious to establish their country on a sound basis and to have the sympathy and approval of the great nations of the world.
THERE were only four delegates from America.
Lady Aberdeen, after thirty-six years active service as President, retired and was elected as Honorary President. The new President is Baroness Pol Boel of Brussels, Belgium.
BARONESS POL BOEL
The meetings covered eleven days and were long drawn out owing to the fact that everything done had to be translated into the three official languages—English, German, and French.
THE outstanding meeting, of course, was the Inaugural Public session held in the theater. It was most interesting and colorful. The decorations of flowers and flags lent beauty to the scene. On the wall at the back of the stage were two large portraits, one of Queen Marie and the other of Little King Peter II. Hanging from the boxes around the theater were the flags of all nations which were represented, with the American flag hanging directly over the front center of the
REPORT ON INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS 15
stage. (Our Council, as you know, is the oldest member of the I.C.) On its right was the English flag. (Their Council is the second oldest.) In the Town Hall our flag also had first place. Outside the theater, in front of the entrance, fifty girls in brilliant peasant costumes formed an aisle through which we all passed. They were animated and gay and their bright black eyes indicated Slavic snap and temperament. The officers and dignitaries were seated on the stage. On the front row were Lady Aberdeen; Six Vice-Presidents; the Minister of the Interior, representing the Queen; the Mayor of Dubrovnik; Madame Petkovitch, the President of the Yugoslavia National Council. Behind them were Secretaries and Treasurers; the Conveners of the Standing Committee; Fraternal Delegates; and Presidents of affiliated National Councils.
The Executive Committee presented three resolutions providing for (a) a Jubilee Celebration in 1938; (b) a Jubilee Fund; (c) for the establishment of a new standing committee on "Housing."
The most intense feeling was shown in connection with the subject of Peace; the idea being that every organization should strive constantly for the continuance and strengthening of the League of Nations and for the upholding of the covenants of the League. The U.S. Delegation took no part in this discussion nor voting. They certainly approved of the clause recommending education for Peace throughout the world.
Some of the important decisions as embodied in the resolutions were: That the National Councils (a) Continue to work for the eradication of slavery; (b) Write a short history of their respective organizations and send a copy to the I.C.; (c) Promote Journalism as a career for women and especially to keep the younger generation of women journalists well informed regarding the progress of the woman's movement; (d) Keep a card index or bibliography recording National development in the woman's movement so that a complete survey might at any time be available; (e) Work for the equality between sexes in respect of Nationality including the right of the spouses to independent nationality; also urge their governments to accord women the same rights and responsibilities of citizenship as men; (f) Work for (1) the abolition of child labor, (2) continuance of part-time education and training for all young people, after the close of compulsory attendance, at part-time school, (3) for the raising of the school leaving age from 14 to 15 and even 16, (4) for better education for world citizenship, (5) for children's library; (g) Urge the respective countries (1) to place women as well as men in the administration of Broadcasting and let them take part in the drawing up of programs, (2) to have popular information and lectures on the Woman's movement broadcasting in the respective countries; (h) Urge women who have the vote to intensify their efforts before election in the interest of the best candidates; (i) Continue the work for Equal Moral Standards among young people and for the abolition of prostitution; (j) Recommend that women
16 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
workers join trade unions and mixed professional organizations; (k) Make protests against all measures restricting woman's right to work, and provide for the needs for herself and her family by paid work; also see to it that married or unmarried women have the same rights as men to keep or obtain paid work; (l) Work for prison reform; (m) Foster an appreciation of films of artistic merit and pronounced social and educational value, so that production of such films shall be encouraged; and also do their utmost to disseminate information concerning them; (n) Work against and condemn all films tended to bring one country in contempt in the eyes of the others; (o) Considering the growing inter-dependence between the different parts of the world and the importance of international collaboration the I.C.W. Recommends that the National Councils promote a better education for world understanding and collaboration, by fostering in the schools a spirit of good-will and understanding and by reforming, where necessary, the text books and the teaching of such subjects as history, geography and civics; (p) By resolution the committee on Broadcasting and Cinema was divided into two separate committees.
The following are among the interesting matters brought before the Council.
Standing Committee on Housing—Emergency Resolution. It was proposed "that a Standing Committee on Housing be set up by the International Council of Women in order to study improved methods of town and rural Development planning, and to encourage higher standards in matters relative to the hygiene of housing and the comfort and well-being of the people in every condition of life."
The Housing resolution was considered an emergency resolution and was presented because of the great importance of the women of the various Councils supporting the extensive plans for modern housing for working people, and for the abolishment of slums, which are going forward in many countries. Lady Aberdeen's daughter, Lady Pentland, was later made Convener of this Committee.
Committee Meetings: In the final meetings held by the Standing Committees a prospective of future work was discussed. In the Committee on Trades and Professions it was suggested that the study for the next period would be: the effect of unemployment on the young people from fourteen to twenty-three; trade unions for women; insurance for intellectual and professional workers such as nurses etc., in fact a study of the whole question of social insurance.
In the education committee the questions recommended for study were: do the schools prepare children for citizenship; are children studying unnecessary subjects; are they learning to employ leisure properly; what can we do to improve our rural schools?
On the Trails of the Old Kaibab
By Elsie C. Carroll
CHAPTER VIII
AS the day of the rodeo drew near, more and more contestants gathered on the Buckskin mountain. Tents sprang up along the tree-bordered foothills of Pleasant Valley. Russell ordered extra supplies. Eating stands were erected at various points near the roping corrals. Additional waitresses and hotel flunkies were hired. Then spectators began to arrive. Families from towns in northern Arizona and southern Utah had come to make the annual rodeo the occasion for their yearly outings. They came prepared to stay for several days or weeks. Rangers and road workers drifted in from various points of the mountain. Sporting fans from near and far gathered. There were lively betting and speculations. Detailed programs of the affair had been posted for weeks, and each day new entrants signed up. Besides the usual contests such as roping, milking, bronco-busting and so on, there were to be novelty features and spectacular exhibitions by experts barred from the regular contests. Three events were scheduled for women, and Steve encouraged Helen to enter the contest for roping and tying calves. The day before the celebration, cars streamed into the park at all hours. Others came early the next morning. By noontime thousands of people filled the wide flat in front of the V.T. Hotel. It was all new to Helen. She was as excited as a child.
ON the evening preceding the rodeo, Russell staged a special program. Entertainers from the Grand Canyon Lodge and from Bryce Canyon came with unique stunts. He had imported a band and two dance orchestras, and served free refreshments. When Helen went into the hall that evening, she saw Bernice Hawley sitting by Fred Grosbeck. They were talking earnestly, and, Helen surmised, about her. She remembered Bernice's inquiry about Lon Dean, and her statement that her father had been looking for him. Helen had told Steve of this, but she had not confided to him her suspicion that Hawley himself was in some way connected with the cattle stealing. She was unable to understand just how this could be, but her feeling persisted. Hawley had been absent from the Park for several days. He'd gone to Salt Lake City, presumably, for his wife. But tonight he was back again without her. Helen couldn't recall having seen him since that night he had gone away with the red-haired stranger.
Seating herself in a corner, she watched the gathering crowd. Presently Mrs. Carter came and sat beside her. "Have you heard the latest news about Tess Morley? They say she's bought silk shirts for all the contestants. So everybody will get a prize whether they win or not. And after the rodeo she's going to have everybody out to her place—that means the men of course—for a big bon-fire party with drinks and sandwiches—and," Mrs. Carter leaned nearer and cupped her hand more closely about her mouth, "they say she's having a lot of girls come out—to help her."
Such gossip was so distasteful that Helen excused herself on the pretext that she had promised the waitresses she would help them make up for a stunt they were to give on the program. As she passed Wood Russell, she commented upon the crowd. "Yes," he beamed, "this is the big time of the year for us. We don't get so much of the regular tourist trade as they do at the Lodge, but this sort of evens things up in a business way, and it's great fun besides."
As they stood talking, Steve entered. He was handsome in new boots, trousers, and bright shirt. Helen tried to imagine how he would look in evening clothes. He would be splendid, she thought, with his striking dark face, and his tall well-built body; but he wouldn't seem quite the same as in his picturesque cowboy costumes. No wonder Bernice was infatuated. He crossed to her as Russell went to greet some in-coming guests. "Have you seen Uncle Billy?" he asked. "No. Is he here? It's ages since I saw him. Did your thieves declare a moratorium?" "Nobody would miss the rodeo for the sake of a bunch of cattle," Steve laughed. 'Now the calves have disappeared there isn't so much danger, though some years I have lost bunches of young steers, and I have a good bunch there at the ranch all rounded up. I've left Lon and two other boys out there, but of course Wood couldn't get along without Uncle Billy tonight. I may ride back after awhile." "Lon? Is he able to be at work? What did he tell you?" "Nothing. He can't remember what happened before he was sick. Isn't that irony, when he might be able to clear up this mess?" "But won't his memory come back?" "Possibly. Doc says it happens sometimes—with a shock or something that connects with the accident that caused the lapse. But it seems so hopeless. I wish I could forget the whole darned business." "There's a great crowd here, isn't there?" Helen said; "and everyone seems happy and excited. Doesn't Bernice Hawley look sweet?" "Oh, yeah." He was totally indifferent. "I can't understand why you treat her as you do. Everyone knows how wild she is about you. It's too bad she doesn't spunk up and make you jealous by flirting with someone else. If she'd do that, maybe you'd be falling over yourself to be with her, like that young flier." "I wish she'd try it." Steve's eyes rested on Helen's profile as she stood watching the scene before them. She turned and caught a glance she had never seen in his eyes before. It sent her own pulses racing. He quickly shifted his gaze to a group near the fireplace. Just then she caught sight of Uncle Billy and rushed to him.
IN another moment Wood Russell mounted the platform and the program commenced. As the great crowd in the long room sang "Out Where the West Begins," and "When It's Springtime in the Rockies," Helen thrilled with a feeling that she belonged here; that these were her people. She recalled occasions in her childhood when she had experienced terrible alien sensations—feelings of homesickness for something she had never known. She used to think it was a longing for her mother, or for her father who was not much more than a dream in her life. But tonight she felt that she must have been hungering in those desolate moments for the perfect satisfaction of this moment.
After the program there was dancing. One orchestra remained in the hall. The other went to an improvised outside pavilion. Uncle Billy drew Helen aside. "I'm worried about Steve. He's letting things get him down. I've never seen the boy so quiet and hard to get next to. He won't talk things out like he used to. If I didn't know him so well, I'd think maybe on top of everything else he's in love. Last night I woke up and found him sitting out on the steps gazing off into the sky. When a feller can't sleep after being on the go all day, there's something wrong. I'm glad the rodeo has partly taken his mind from his troubles lately. But if we can't clear this mystery up pretty soon, I don't know what's going to happen to him."
THE music started and couples began to dance. Wood Russell led Helen to the floor and called out, "This will be a cut-in dance." Tess Morley, as usual, was the center of attraction. She was dressed in a striped sport suit, her dark hair bound with a band of silk blending with colors in her dress. Helen thought she had never seen a more striking figure. No wonder she was popular with the men. Tess started the dance with Ted Reeves, drunk as usual. He was always following Tess as closely as she would allow. Presently Mr. Hawley "cut in" on Reeves. Helen noticed that they left the middle of the floor and went to a window where they stood in earnest conversation. Wood brought her back to Uncle Billy. He pointed to Hawley and Tess, then nodded to Bernice who was watching them, anger and shame in her eyes. "Something serious may happen in that family," Uncle Billy said, "if Hawley don't quit making a darned fool of himself. That nice little girl of his is mortified to death. She thinks Tess is a bad woman—like all the rest of the females around here does."
Helen was sure that Hawley was not making love to Tess. Another link in the chain of her theory began to form. If only she might know the subject of that subdued conversation!
When the second dance started, Helen was confronted by three partners—Steve Heyden, Fred Grosbeck and Pete Rockwood. "Thank you all," she said laughing. "I think I'll dance with Mr. Rockwood. I want to see when he and Pegasus will take me for a ride over the canyon." She saw Fred and Steve talking for a moment, then Fred and Bernice began to dance and Steve disappeared. He did not come back to the hall. Helen decided that he must have returned to the ranch. The party seemed suddenly dull, and she soon went to her cabin.
BY ten o'clock the next day the rodeo was in full swing. One after another, to the stir of music and the shouts of the spectators, the scheduled events were pulled off. Helen had never witnessed such swift, sure movements, such cool daring. Each moment it seemed that some man must meet his death. The corrals were a turmoil of plunging
20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
horses, bellowing cattle, and singing ropes. Provision had been made for possible accidents. A cabin had been fitted up for an emergency hospital, and Fred Grosbeck was on the job. Helen heard comments about accidents of previous years. Two years ago one rider had been instantly killed. Every year someone was hurt.
Tess was busy with her movie camera. She moved from place to place about the corrals, accompanied by her corps of volunteer assistants, in an effort to get the best views. A short time after the contest started, Helen was standing not far from Mr. Hawley and Bernice when she saw Hawley walk quickly from the crowd. Alert as she had come to be of his movements, she watched him. Looking back to see if he had been observed, he moved to a clump of trees a short distance back of the hotel. Helen could see two horses, and she was sure that one was mounted. Hawley took the other horse and the two men rode into the woods. Helen couldn't be sure, but she felt that the other rider was the sandy stranger.
Between the various types of contest events, the exhibitions by professionals were staged. Helen did not see Steve until he rode into the corral to exhibit fancy roping. How romantic he looked circling round and round on his plunging horse, sending the long lasso whistling through the air with sure aim to the horns or hoofs of his victim. Though his maneuvers brought shouts of applause from the crowd, she found herself in an agony of fear lest he would be hurt.
During the contest which followed Steve's exhibition, one man was hurt. He was dragged for rods by his horse and one of his hands was crushed. The sight of it made Helen ill.
Finally the roping contest for women was announced. She had wished all morning that she hadn't entered. But now she must go through with it. There were two girls besides herself and Tess Morley. Each was to give a short demonstration of rope manipulation, then they were to compete in a calf-tying contest. They drew for places. Helen drew second, and Tess fourth. The girl who preceded Helen did only fairly well with her rope exercises, but she was warmly cheered by the crowd. Helen felt smothered and almost faint as she rode into the corral. How grotesque this would all seem to Aunt Nettie, to George, and to everyone she had known until two months ago! It seemed she was no longer Helen Latimer. She was Sammy Huntsman, a child of these mountains. That thought cleared her mind. She sat erect and steady, waiting. Then came the signal. She was performing for her father whose blood surged in her veins. She was performing for Steve Heyden who was somewhere out there in that surrounding throng watching her. One after another she went through the intricate manipulations he had taught her. As she rode back to the gates, she caught sight of him standing by the judges' platform, shouting his approval with the crowd.
Though the applause for her and for the other girls had been satisfying, when Tess rode into the enclosure, there was a wild clamor. Before she was through, however, Helen found herself cheering with the rest. The movements of the others had been true, but mechanical. Tess' every motion was grace and poetry. She swung one coil after another as if it were play.
ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB 21
Helen watched Steve and saw the admiration in his eyes. No wonder! They were kindred artists. When Tess finished, with the other men in the crowd, Steve threw his hat into the air and shouted. And why shouldn't he? Helen tried to fix her mind on the roping contest which was now to begin.
Calves were turned into the corral, and at the sound of a pistol shot the four women rode in at opposite gates and each picked from the wild melee a bellowing victim. The horses plunged and reared. Helen threw her rope at one calf and missed. She wheeled and threw again. The instant her rope sailed through the air, she saw another coil coming toward the same calf. With chagrin she realized that she and Tess had lassoed the same animal. The pistol shot was heard as the two women leaped to the ground and ran to the victim to loosen their ropes. For a moment their eyes met above the struggling calf. Helen read anger and hate in the other's black eyes. She shuddered. The thought flashed to her that this woman believed she had come to the mountain as a rival.... Burning with humiliation at the unfinished thought, Helen rode from the corral. The judges wanted the two to contest again, but they both refused.
(To be continued)
The Greater Death
By Miranda Snow Walton
(Awarded Third Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest)
There is a greater death than that which comes When God extinguishes life's sacred flame, For Faith can light that path, and show to man The peerless palaces from whence he came.
It is when vision's gone, and courage dead; It is while human hearts are chained with hate, When love no longer whispers "Hope," to pain, That death despairs, and grief is desolate.
When the soul sees no tomorrow, then it knows A night of gloom for which there is no dawn; Oh, weary world, could you but learn this truth,— Death is not death unless Faith, too, is gone.
Little Moments of Eternity
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM?
By Lella Marler Hoggan
PATTERNS Take Time To Plan
"As we journey through life Let us live by the way." —Moore.
OUT of the vast stretches of eternity the Master has given to each of his children a little span of time to be spent here in the earth life before voyaging into the land of Life Everlasting. Since that long ago day, when the parents of the race groped their way out of Eden into a world filled with necessary tasks and requirements, man has spent a measure of his time providing himself with the necessities of life. By the work of his brain and his hand he has shortened his hours of labor and lengthened his moments of leisure. These little moments of eternity that we flaunt so carelessly, have cost the race long years of patient toil and earnest study. Knowing this, should we not treasure them more gratefully and use them more discreetly?
"Character," said Elbert Hubbard, "is the result of two things—mental attitude and the way we spend our time." Each small portion of time is a little part of eternity. The only way to save it is to use it so as to make a permanent mark on our souls for good. So spent, it is not lost.
The hour of beginning again is at hand. Last year's accounts are closed. The slate is washed clean, ready for the new record. What are we going to write into it? How are we going to spend the leisure hours of this year? Let us resolve to accomplish some of our long cherished hopes. Why not make our program a matter of thoughtful planning and earnest prayer? The use to which we put our little leisure moments will determine our eternal progress. Surely this is a matter of sufficient importance to demand careful consideration.
Every great event in the universe was planned before it was accomplished. Careless, haphazard effort usually ends in futility. Any worthwhile service that is performed requires a recipe, a pattern, a blueprint, or a design. A charted course leads to a definite destination. Out of the crosses and losses of long experience, patterns of life are evolved. After much trial and error, a plan that will work is discovered.
PATTERNS are the answers to difficult problems. They are the salvage carried from life's battlefield, the heart of materialized dreams. Patterns save time and energy. They forestall worry. They bring expected results. Why should we not profit by the wisdom of the long struggles of humanity? The person with clearly defined objectives and a set purpose is not easily lured into the wobbly bypaths that branch off from the course of achievement. He does not loiter in surroundings that detract from his well being. His high purpose challenges all interference.
"I hear a voice you do not hear That bids me not to stay. I see a hand you do not see That beckons me away." —Selected.
LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY 23
OUT of years of wisdom come the brief bits of philosophy that shape our destiny. No need to grope among the dim half-truths and vague theories of men, nor to follow blurred ideals that lead only to disappointed hopes. Under divine inspiration great men have lighted their lanterns and hung them high that those coming after, by following the gleam, may reach the Harbor of Truth. From Mt. Sinai Moses thundered forth the Ten Commandments. After these many years, they still stand as the foundation of law. In the Golden Rule the Master gave the most perfect behavior pattern—a single sentence, consisting of but eleven simple words. And yet for nineteen hundred years it has stood as the peak of good conduct. The fundamental truths of the Gospel are forever the same. Can we not pattern life in harmony with these simple truths?
WE can not go back through the years and undo the past. After life's tapestry is completed we can not weave in a design to our heart's liking. Wasted hours can never be recalled. "Vanished yesterdays are the tyrants of tomorrow."
In making our pattern for the year's guidance let it be brief and simple and clear cut. Let it bear a definite relationship to our eternal progress and be an answer to the inmost desires of our heart. What may we do that will enrich and enlarge our lives, and add to our eternal development and joy: that will reach out into the lives of others to bless and encourage and uplift? Let us write into our program that which will bring to us and to others "life more abundant."
A Manger and a Barn
By Eva Willes Wangsgard
MRS. BROWN was singing as she took the cookies from the oven. It was a long time since she had felt so happy. For the first time in weeks she was free from worry over how her family would be sheltered during the winter. They had always lived from hand to mouth and now her husband had been out of work for some time. It had always taken every cent Mr. Brown could possibly make for the necessities of life, for the Browns had six children and the parents were now just twenty-eight years old. Responsibilities had descended upon these two young things with such weight that they were all but submerged.
When they had had just twenty dollars left to face the winter her husband had asked, "Shall we take this last twenty dollars and pay for one more month's rent? Maybe something will show up in a month." A sudden thought had occurred to Mrs. Brown; "No," she answered. "You know that old barn that father moved up by the foothills for housing his cattle when he brought them to town to sell? Well, he lined it with bricks and divided it into rooms so that he could stop there himself sometimes and save hotel bills while he was in the city. He even plastered some of the rooms. We could go up there, clean it out, and use that twenty dollars to make the necessary repairs. Then we would be sure of a house of some sort as long as living like this is necessary."
They walked up to look the prospects over that evening. The old barn looked so ugly and impossible that Mr. Brown exclaimed, "We can't live here!" "We not only can, but we will," said Mrs. Brown and so they had. They were sure of shelter and warmth for the winter and Mrs. Brown was almost happy. The "almost" was because Peggy, their little ten year old daughter was so miserable.
Naturally Peggy was a cheerful, happy child. She had blond hair that curled in tight little ringlets all over her head and her eyes were as blue as violets in the spring woods, but ever since she entered the new school she had been unhappy. The rings under her eyes were almost as violet as her eyes and rested like rainclouds on her pale face.
While her mother baked cookies and smiled, Peggy was walking home from school with two girls from her class, Evelyn Higganbotham and Mary Lee. Evelyn was talking animatedly to Mary Lee in a tone and manner that effectively shut Peggy out as though it were beneath her station to have Peggy even listen. Evelyn's hair was a rich chestnut brown and waved in precise little waves that were nearly as proud and just as rigid as Evelyn's attitude. It was quite plain that her life had been patterned in the same regular little ridges down which a child should walk, safe and sure.
"I shall ask mother as soon as I get home what story she thinks would be best for the contest. Then I shall begin right away to study it. I am sure I can win again, and mother will be so proud of me." Evelyn tossed her head in assurance. She was a good student and had won
A MANGER AND A BARN 25
many contests such as this retold Christmas story contest which the teacher had announced that afternoon.
"I should like to enter, too," ventured Peggy. "O, what we could do with ten dollars! That's a grand prize. How I would work and if I won mother could get some of us some shoes!"
Evelyn punched Mary and giggled, "O, go lay an egg. You ought to be able to do that better than telling stories since you live in a barn. Why don't you ask the hens to teach you how?" Then she giggled again.
Peggy, crimson-faced, hurried ahead and burst into the kitchen. At sight of her mother's face free from worry she suddenly stopped and then ducked into the bedroom. When she felt better she came out. Her mother noticed that something was wrong but she, too, decided on silence.
AFTER supper the children of the neighborhood gathered to play "run, sheep, run" and "red apples" in the hollow. Peggy ran with the rest of them. The disagreeable events of the afternoon were but faint shadows in the background of this happy play. All went well until Evelyn was caught and had to be "it." She was trained to win and could not stand defeat. She sulked and would not play. While it is true that children have an instinctive sense of fair play it is equally true that they have just as strong a mob spirit and can be converted into the most brutal little savages when under able leadership. Evelyn was a born leader and soon had the group around her ready to follow her whims. Suddenly, she jumped upon a rock and crowed as realistically as a cock. The children picked up the new game quickly. Someone mooed like a cow, another brayed, some bleated like sheep, and some cackled and quacked. Peggy enjoyed the antics of the children until the significance of what they were doing dawned on her. Then she rushed off home blinded by tears and followed by the gang of barnyard mimics shouting singly and in unison their chosen barnyard calls.
SHE rushed into the house and dropped on her knees beside her mother who held her baby brother all fragrant and pink from his evening bath and looking like a bunny in his fuzzy white gown. Peggy was too heartbroken to notice the baby and sobbed hysterically. Gently her mother moved her aside while she rose and tucked the baby into his warm bed; then, returning, she gathered her into her sympathetic arms. Pitifully Peggy sobbed out her grief. Every word cut Mrs. Brown like a scythe. Conquering her own voice she undressed Peggy and talked quietly to her all the while. Then she tucked her into bed and lay beside her until the little body began to respond to her love and sympathy. Finally she asked, "Can you listen to a story now, Peggy dear?" Peggy nodded her head and Mrs. Brown began:
"Once long ago, in a far away land, a great and good people had been conquered by a powerful nation. Their conquerors were the Romans who collected taxes from their captives as all nations do. One day, the governor of the land sent out an edict that each person in this land of Judea should gather at once in the town of his birth that a census might be taken and all names registered so that an accurate record could be made and kept and the proper taxes levied and collected.
26 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Now there were, in the city of Jerusalem, a man and his new wife who like many of their fellow countrymen had wandered far from the city of their birth and therefore faced a long journey. They were poor and could travel only by donkey and they must travel many miles to the city of David, known as Bethlehem.
"They traveled slowly and arrived late at night. So many travelers had arrived ahead of time and the town was so little used to such crowds that the young couple could find no house to shelter them and no room in the inn, as they were already overcrowded. Finally, one innkeeper offered to let them spend the night in his stable. Many animals and numerous travelers were bedded there, but the young husband was glad for any place that offered his wife shelter and a resting place for she was not well. He made her as comfortable as he could in a manger and prepared for the night himself.
"Now there were in the same country," recited Peggy's mother, "shepherds abiding in the fields watching over their flocks by night:
"When lo, an angel of the Lord came upon them and the glory of the Lord shone round about them and they were sore afraid.
"But the angel said unto them, 'Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy,
"'For unto you is born this day in the City of David a saviour which is Christ, the Lord,
"'And this shall be a sign unto you, ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes lying in a manger.
"'And suddenly, there were with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and singing,
"'Glory to God in the highest and on earth peace, good will toward men.'
"And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger."
"So, Peggy dear, if the King of Kings was born in a manger we can certainly live in a barn and also be thankful for its shelter as they were that night. He was a shepherd of men, when he grew up, and loved the sheep and all animals of the field. He loved little children. His chief mission was to teach people the virtues of a plain and humble life. Your little playmates just haven't learned His lessons very well yet. That is all." Her gentle voice stopped as she listened for Peggy's sobs. They also had ceased and with a long sigh Peggy fell asleep. Her mother lay quietly beside her for a moment fearing to waken her and then silently left the room.
DURING the following weeks Peggy was especially quiet and studious. She did her little household tasks in such a preoccupied way that her mother's patience was taxed to the breaking point, but Mrs. Brown sensed that her daughter was working out her own problems and left her to solve them in her own way, since in that way they were most likely to be permanently solved. Peggy spent much time by herself apparently thinking and often Mrs. Brown thought she saw her lips move as she washed dishes or swept the floor. She had entered the retold story contest at school and it was that which took so much of her energy and attention, but she had not told anyone for she did not want to reveal the subject of her story.
A MANGER AND A BARN 27
WHEN the great day arrived, the contest was held in the school auditorium and the large hall was crowded with parents and visitors. The contestants drew numbers for position and Peggy's was number five. She was sorry about that for she knew that she would be too nervous to hear the other children's stories and she wanted to, very much. Mary had drawn the coveted first place and Jack Hoyt, second. Evelyn was third and was cross about it. Another boy came between Evelyn and Peggy, who was last of all.
The children were well prepared and teachers and parents radiated pride as each well-trained child stood before the large audience and told the Christmas story of his or her choice. Evelyn did especially well. She was a beautiful girl, tastefully dressed, and a brilliant student. She had a pleasant voice, poise, and clear enunciation. All through her carefully chosen and well-prepared story, Mrs. Higganbotham beamed with pride. Everybody was sure that the prize was again hers. They scarcely had ears for the story told by the little boy who followed her.
Then came Peggy's turn. Faces swam before her eyes. She caught a fleeting glimpse of Evelyn's face in the front row and then her clearing vision caught her mother's face and the great audience sank away until to her they were no longer there. She saw herself weeping at her mother's knee. Before she was quite aware of it, herself, her story was well begun, just as she had said it over and over so many times as she washed dishes or walked to and from school. She told them the story that I am telling you, only she told it so much better than I can because it was a page of life torn from Peggy's own heart. The great audience sat very still. They were listening against their volition as once, not so long ago, an audience was won over by a gangly country lawyer in the Virginia assembly and went away converted to his views. Bravely on to the end the little heart poured out its message of humility and love until every eye was moist and handkerchiefs hid every face and the prize was undoubtedly won. Those who heard her declare that the light of heaven shone from her eyes and made a halo of the fringe of golden curls about her face, while the angels' "Peace on earth," sang in her voice.
It is not a normal condition when a nation such as America must bow under the disgrace of a set of circumstances in which one-fifth of our most deadly outlaws, our murderers, our machine-gunning desperadoes, are little beyond childhood. It becomes incumbent upon all of us, therefore, to recognize and admit the causes for such scandalous conditions, and, reaching beyond, to search for the means by which they may be remedied. —John Edgar Hoover.
The Seventh Writers' Conference in the Rocky Mountains
By Blanche Kendall McKey
SYLVIA CHATFIELD BATES, leader of the short story workshop group at the recent Writers' Conference held in Boulder, Colorado, made the statement that nothing better can happen to a beginning writer than the formation of a friendship with an editor. Anyone who stops to think about this assertion, no matter how inexperienced in writing he may be, can see immediately the advantages of such an association. A writer necessarily views the world from the production viewpoint; his mind is busy with problems of creation. Association with an editor shows him the other side of the fence—reveals the broad, keen, analytical angle from which the publisher not only appraises a piece of writing but also considers, as comprehensively as possible, the whole reading public. People—life—that is the subject-matter of writers; people—life—is the subject-matter of editors—but the former attempts to reflect people, while the latter strains to feed them. Singular as it may appear to many people, it was this presentation of the viewpoint of the editor, the publisher (perhaps given unconsciously), that rendered me the greatest service of the Writers' Conference.
WE scribblers of the Rocky Mountain region are an isolated group of workers. Geographically we are too far removed from the large centers to make personal contacts with men and women of vital influence in the writing field. In addition, in Utah and Idaho, we have created a type of writing of our own, one with many limitations, and no matter how deeply the writer may revere the standards and beliefs that have fostered this type, as an artist he feels a certain amount of restriction. Isolation and limitation are rather poor food for a sensitive creative spirit, and are likely to breed a feeling of hopelessness, even of artistic desolation. For while it is true that every great piece of art comes from the sacred, mysterious depths of the artist's being, it is equally true that the artist is not likely to find his own depths without the inspiration, the aid of his fellows. It is in hope of reaching someone who may have felt my own bewilderment that this article is written.
FIRST, may I present a few details? The Writers' Conference in the Rocky Mountains is sponsored late in the summer of each year by the University of Colorado at Boulder. The Conference lasts three weeks. Anyone keenly interested in writing may apply for entrance. This summer there were one hundred and twenty-nine enrolled members coming from more than thirty states. The registration fee has been fifty dollars. A manuscript bureau is conducted through which a writer may receive expert criticism and advice concerning his work. A few manuscripts yearly are selected to be taken to New York with a view to publication. If you are interested, a request sent to Dr. Edward Davison, Director Writers' Conference, Boulder, Colorado, will bring you during the winter bulletins concerning next year's meet.
THE SEVENTH WRITERS' CONFERENCE 29
NOW for some generalities. First let me give you the attitude of the promoters of the Conference toward teaching creative writing. From every indication the promoters and leaders unanimously agree that the writer must teach himself how to write his stories, poems, plays, and other creative forms, but that certain technicalities and suggestions can be given him by sympathetic more experienced writers. The noted novelist, T. S. Stribling, was very emphatic along this line, holding that the basic point of a novel is that it must be done the writer's own way, but that certain fundamental things and "Don'ts" can be given him as aids.
Another generality was the hopeful, extremely optimistic spirit exhibited toward the Western writer. To quote Mr. Stribling: "I predict that the West will be the next great, important source and place of American literature, because the West approaches the South in writability and resonance." Fulton Oursler, novelist, playwright, and editor of twelve McFadden magazines, feels that the West is an amazing source of fiction and that "writers have not scratched the surface as yet. Like New York, one can't write a novel about the West; it is the subject for a library."
An amusing generality held by nearly all the leaders is that as a rule the over-crowded writing field yields little money. The serial is the most lucrative form of fiction and next to it comes the short story. Poetry is the poorest paid medium. Indeed, the majority of writers must seek other means of support in order to be able to write.
The general attitude of the Conference leaders toward literary agents is interesting: A young or beginning writer does not need an agent. If he studies the various publications he can do as well for himself as an agent can. However, when he has advanced far enough to be, to a degree at least, in demand and to be facing the problem of contract-signing, a reliable agent will be a great ally. Writers do not need to seek agents; by the time their aid is needed the agents will be seeking the writers.
PERHAPS you are wondering how this Conference operated. The work was presented through public lectures in the Little Theatre of the campus, through round table conferences, and by means of five workshop groups meeting at different hours during the day: Poetry, led by Edward Davison; the Short Story, led by Sylvia Chatfield Bates; the Novel, led by T. S. Stribling; Playwriting, led by Carl Glick; and Miscellaneous Prose, led by Robert Penn Warren. Let me give a brief account of these five enthusiastic leaders, all outstanding figures in the fields they represent.
EDWARD DAVISON, for four years a member of the Conference staff and this year the Director of the Conference, is at present Professor of English Literature at the University of Colorado. He was one of the original group of the Saturday Reviewers and for two years edited the Wits' Weekly page of the Saturday Review of Literature. The Guggenheim Foundation awarded him a Fellowship in creative writing in 1930. He has contributed to numerous periodicals in England as well as in America. His chief volumes of prose and verse are Harvest of Youth, The Heart's Unreason, and The Ninth Witch. A native of England and known all
30 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
over the United States as a lecturer, Dr. Davison possesses a dynamic, sympathetic personality which draws people to him. He holds that poetry is not something written in a book; it is much greater, more significant than that, being a quality in human experience. When all our being—mental, physical, spiritual—is alive we are experiencing poetry. When the experience brings spiritual insight and we have the power to express what we feel and comprehend, we become poets. So poetry as experience belongs to all people; and out of the universal springs the particular. "Great poetry can be read at any time and in any age," said Dr. Davison; "and poetry, at its very greatest, is always intelligible."
MISS SYLVIA CHATFIELD BATES is the author of six published novels, the most recent of which is I Have Touched the Earth. For six years the Fiction Editor of The Woman's Home Companion, she wrote serials and short stories for the Companion, Scribners, and other national magazines. For the past ten years Miss Bates has been in charge of the Fiction and Short Story Workshop at New York University. This remarkable teacher feels that a writer must be first a person. The qualities of a real artist she gives as being: integrity, sincerity, spontaneity, innocence of eyes, integration of the soul. By the latter is meant a person's ability to pull himself together, to draw the various conflicts of his being into a unity which is strong. "The artist is emotional, childlike. He observes stern loyalty to truth. If the artist is a writer he has a feeling for words. They thrill him—both through meaning and sound. Then he must have the ability to transmute emotions through these symbols. The unpublished genius is the rarest thing on earth." Miss Bates is strong for the plotted story, feeling that all people like a pattern, perhaps because life is so patternless and incomplete. In art we strive to make a whole.
T. S. STRIBLING is the author of thirteen published novels, including his trilogy, The Forge, The Store, The Unfinished Cathedral. For The Store he was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in 1933. His most recent novel, The Sound Wagon, was published this year. At one time Mr. Stribling practiced law. During the past year he has been instructor in novel writing at Columbia University. In associating with Mr. Stribling perhaps one appreciates most his kind, delightful sense of humor. In speaking of the theme of his trilogy, Mr. Stribling holds that catching glimpses of eternity are impractical as writing material in our mechanical world. "Our social, technological, and moral set-up makes a social religion, rather than a spiritual religion, necessary. We cannot be distracted nor take time to conceive what disembodiment would be like. Our physical, mental, and moral energies are set on making social religion a going concern. We cannot get our hands nor our brains on the intangible. Such is the spirit of the times, against which neither you nor I dare struggle with a hope of success." In discussing his political novel, The Sound Wagon, Mr. Stribling expressed himself as favoring the establishment of a political school in each State, the school to be free from politics. Cadets would be appointed in much the same way as they are chosen for Annapolis. He believes that graduates of the political college would inevitably form a code as honorable
THE SEVENTH WRITERS' CONFERENCE 31
as that of the man from Annapolis or West Point.
CARL GLICK, successful playwright, critic, and writer of short stories depicting Chinese life in America, holds the record of having built the first city-owned, city-built Little Theatre in the United States, which is in San Antonio and was opened in 1930. Of the Little Theatre movement he says: "The most amazing thing in the history of the theatre is happening in America today and is found in the Little Theatre movement, which has taken this most democratic art of all and has given it back into the hands of the people. We all love spoken drama so much that we are going out to get it. We are producing our own plays all over the United States in more than two thousand Little Theatres. Don't go to Broadway! Stay home! Write and produce plays in your own city, for there you will find the theatre of tomorrow." Mr. Glick, before devoting his entire time to writing, was a member of the English faculty of the University of Colorado. Speaking from the viewpoint of the social worker and the creative artist, he praised the Federal theatres all over the country, expressing appreciation to the Government for promoting this altruistic movement.
ROBERT PENN WARREN, poet, critic, and editor of the Southern Review, teaches creative writing at Louisiana State University. Although a young man barely out of his twenties, Mr. Warren last spring was awarded the Houghton Mifflin Literary Fellowship out of eight hundred and thirty-six applicants. He is the author of a volume of poems and a biography of John Brown. In speaking of poetry and our machine age he said: "Possibly the entire purpose and function of the poet today may be to save us from a super-scientific world. What time is going to say about modern poetry I can only conjecture; but it does satisfy something which the world H. G. Wells depicts in The World to Come does not."
HOW inadequate this brief summary is! And yet we must hurry on. In addition to these five workshop leaders some fifteen or twenty speakers and author-advisers participated in the work of the various groups. There is not time to present them here, but I wish to refer to a few.
C. E. SCOGGINS is an author familiar to readers of The Saturday Evening Post, for which magazine he writes exclusively. In a discussion concerning truth in fiction Mr. Scoggins said: "A truth depends upon a person's background. What is true to one is false to another. In fiction we try to give an impression of truth to the kind of audience our readers are. We attempt to transfer to the reader's mind the impression which life has given us. Fiction is the stripping of truth and the adding of overtones."
Martha Foley has endeared herself to hundreds of beginning writers. She and her husband, Whit Burnett, in 1930 established Story, a magazine which makes its selection on the merit of the material submitted, not on the reputation of the author. Miss Foley, herself a recognized writer as well as editor, said: "The most significant development in the short story is the growth of social consciousness. There has been social awareness before our time, but our period is differentiated in that the writings are definitely on the side of the people. The short story is not only an art form, but it is a part of the life of a people. Its
32 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
vitality and importance are being felt all over America and in Europe."
Lenora Mattingly Weber, author of three Western juvenile books and many short stories, came to the Conference to talk about juvenile tales but was way-laid by questions concerning the confession story. Mrs. Weber contended that sex stories, as a confession type, are no longer in demand. She herself has won one one-thousand dollar prize, two five-hundred dollar prizes, and three two-hundred-and-fifty dollar prizes and not one of her stories was based upon sex. Her formula for a successful confession story is: "Let them do wrong for twelve pages and then repent for twelve pages. The greater the mistake the deeper the repentance, and so the stronger the story." Mrs. Weber sent regularly to The Ladies' Home Journal for eleven years before she had an acceptance.
Fulton Oursler, editor of twelve McFadden publications and the author of Behold This Dreamer, The World's Delight, Joshua Todd, The Spider, and other novels and plays, gave the writers encouragement in several ways. He offered substantial prizes for fiction; his own sympathetic personality and understanding viewpoint inspired confidence; his message to beginning writers was optimistic. His farewell words were: "I think I know of no courage greater than that of a writer who keeps trying again and again, meeting failure after failure—the writer who goes back to his task though beaten at the time, who tries to put joy and entertainment into his writing though working with a broken heart, the man who will not stop until he has reached the top."
IT is very hard indeed to know where to stop—these writers are so interesting and have such inspiring messages! I cannot close without mentioning two others; it would be a pity to overlook their contributions. Although it was Robert Penn Warren who told us that we know there is a God because such things as poetry exist, and other speakers' words were graced by inner light, it was perhaps J. McBride Dabbs who lent the greatest spirituality to the Conference. There is no time here to develop his philosophy; let me quote him briefly: "I am convinced that our modern industrial life is adverse to the religious life of today. My general belief is that religious values are extremely weak in our churches. Consequently the average person thinks he does not have religious values. In my opinion they exist, scattered here and there through life. I believe man needs to be aware of these moments which are religious and cherish them. Religion is not a matter of Sundays, but of a series of moments. Yet the working man cannot live a significant religious life moment to moment because of our industrial life. Unfortunately, the man exists for the machine, not the machine for the man. Man has been made an automaton by the very complexity of life. If we hope to make improvement, we must realize that material products of industry are not as important as human values." Mr. Dabbs' new book, The Religion of a Countryman, will be released by the publishers very soon.
A BOOK of strong appeal, especially to us children of pioneers, is The Westward Star, which was reviewed by the author, Frank Ernest Hill. It is a novel in verse depicting life on the plains in 1847. Although the Mormon pioneers are given just a page or two, and the
THE SEVENTH WRITERS' CONFERENCE 33
company in question settle in California, we who are spiritually tied to desert tales thrill with this story, told in charmingly simple words. In concluding Mr. Hill reveals the mind of one of his chief characters.
"Dreamers of kingless kingdoms!— Now they have seized the land From shore to farthest shore. But, Sarah thought, the land had seized them too, Taking it to them more and more Through the slow years with tightening hand."
Perhaps you know a personal story of someone who changed himself in conquering a wilderness and helping to build an empire.
THE spirit of the Conference was not all work and no play. There were social events, one of which will long remain in the memory of all participants. One calm evening the Chamber of Commerce entertained the Colorado Authors' League and the staff and members of the Writers' Conference at a beef steak fry on the top of Flagstaff Mountain, which towers above Boulder a thousand or two feet. On the very edge of the mountain the CCC boys have built of rock and stone a circular amphitheatre with a small stage at one side and a round enclosure for a bonfire in the center. An immense red moon arose before the light of the sunset had died out. The fire of pine logs blazed high. Breath of living pines mixed with the scent of the burning. Below were the arcs of Boulder; far-off the lights of Denver; above were many stars.
I KNOW that I should draw conclusions. Let me merely say that I feel as a stranger does when he installs a telephone. He will not use the instrument very much; he has few friends to call him. But he has established possible contact. Nor is that contact merely physical. There is a spiritual essence that comes from feeling with people, from catching the vision of great minds, an essence that lifts and makes one feel that, although he is very small in the writing world, he has a place somewhere—that, because he has much to give by way of emotion, he is really a part of what we vaguely call "artistic America."
An Ideal Method for Studying the New Testament
By Adena W. Swenson
(Presented in the Relief Society Conference of the Manila Ward, Timpanogos Stake)
A DEMONSTRATION
Scene:—Any living room. Mother seated at small table reading Bible and R. S. Magazine.
Characters:—Mother and three children, Grace, Jane and Mark.
(Enter the three children.)
Grace—What book are you reading, mother?
Mother—This is the Bible, dear. I am getting my Relief Society lesson 34 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE This year the Theology lessons are about the Life of the Savior, which is found in the New Testament. Jane—Grandmother told me last Sunday that when she was a little girl like me, before she joined our church, she learned a verse from the Bible every day and she remembers a lot of them now. Mark—Yes, and she said her father used to read a verse from the Bible every morning before they had prayer. He said if they started the day out by thinking of the Lord they would feel happier all the day. Grace—I wish I could learn a verse from the Bible. Read us some Mother. Mother—Alright, come sit close beside me and you can help me prepare my lesson for tomorrow. This lesson is about the sermon on the Mount. People who spend lots of time studying Literature say some of the most beautiful verses in the world are found in this sermon. You children may read a few verses and we will discuss it together. When we find some verse that we especially like, we will memorize that one. You know when Jesus lived in Galilee He spent much of His time walking from one village to another. As He walked He talked to His apostles and the people who followed him. One day the crowd was so large that He wanted to stand on higher ground so they could all hear Him better. So they went to a mountain, of course not as high as our mountains, where Jesus gave such a wonderful sermon that even today we call it the "Sermon on the Mount." Everyone should be able to repeat some of this lovely sermon. Jane, turn to the 5th chapter of St. Matthew and read from the 7th to the 9th verses. Jane—(reads) —7th—Blessed are the merciful for they shall obtain mercy. 8th—Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God. 9th—Blessed are the peace makers for they shall be called the children of God. Grace—What is a peacemaker? Mother—This morning when the twins were quarreling over the red ball, Mark said, "Lets take the ball outside where we can all play with it." Soon you were all laughing and playing and Mark was a peacemaker. Now Mark you may read this. Mark—(reads Matthew 5:11-12.) 11—Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. 12—Rejoice and be exceeding glad; for great is your reward in heaven; for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Mother—The prophet Joseph Smith was arrested many, many times but was never found guilty once. He rejoiced that he was worthy to be persecuted for Christ's sake. Jane you read Matthew the 16th. Jane—(reads) Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in Heaven. I have heard our returned missionaries say that if all the Saints at home would pay their tithing, keep the Sabbath day holy and attend to their religious duties "Their light would shine" so that it would be easier to convert the people of the world to our religion. Mark—Let's learn that verse, then when we do wrong we will remember METHOD FOR STUDYING THE NEW TESTAMENT 35 it and try to make our 'light shine' brighter. Lets say it all together. Altogether—"Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good Works and glorify your Father which is in Heaven." Mother—It was in this 'Sermon on the Mount' that Jesus taught the people how to pray. He doesn't want us to use too many words but to mean what we say. You children all know the Lord's Prayer. Let us repeat it together. (All repeat the prayer together. At the end of the prayer a knock is heard at the door. Grace goes to the door. Enter two Relief Society teachers. Shake hands and the mother invites them to be seated. First Teacher—Sister Brown we are so glad to see you and your children looking so well today. Since you have your Bible and Relief Society magazine handy, we will proceed at once with the Teacher's Topic. Mother—The children and I have been studying the Relief Society lesson. We enjoy studying about the Savior. First Teacher—I am so thrilled that the Teacher's Topics this year are the parables of the Savior. They are so interesting and I hope we can learn something in each one of them that we can use in making our lives better. The parable today is The Sower. (She tells the story of the Sower. Matt. 13:3-9; 19-23.) Mother—That explains lots of things that have puzzled me. I have often wondered why we don't live our religion more fully when we hear it taught so often. Second Teacher—I think the General Board of the Relief Society was certainly inspired this year when they chose the theology lesson, the teacher's topic and the reading project all from the New Testament. I wasn't satisfied with the results of the project last year from the Old Testament, neither my own, nor my district's accomplishments. Mother—The Old Testament seemed so hard to read. Second Teacher—The New Testament is easier and shorter to read. I suggest that we start from the first of the book and when we find something especially interesting we mark it until some of the children can read it out aloud. I have chosen a verse and printed a copy for each home in my district to hang on the wall. If we see it often, perhaps we can memorize a verse or two each month. (Mother takes the verse. Matt. 6:33.) Mother—Thank you. We will hang it here children where we can see it. Who will learn it first? (reads aloud) Matt. 6:33. "But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." If we take advantage of these things that the Relief Society has outlined for us, we will be like Grandmother, with Bible verses in our Memory Garden that we can recall when we are lonely or discouraged. Since we have heard that beautiful story of The Sower, lets sing a verse of that Sunday School song, "We Are Sowing, Daily Sowing." (Chorister leads the audience in singing with the characters.) (The End) Gifts By Vera Hinckley Mayhew UST ten more days until Christmas! The children sang the words joyously, the newspapers printed them blatantly and Alice whispered them feverishly as she rushed from store to store. Ten days in which to do the work of ten weeks. It had seemed impossible to get at her shopping earlier. First Bob had had the "flu," then she had taken it and been in bed three weeks. She was hardly strong yet but Christmas preparations must be started. She glanced from her wrist watch to the list she carried. It was almost noon and so very few of the things on the list had been checked off as done. Everything had gone wrong this year. The stocks were so small and poor that it was hard to make a selection. Things had already been picked over and the clerks were dead on their feet. She had handled things she didn't like, bought things she didn't want until she was sick of the whole Christmas business. HER feelings were reflected on the faces of other shoppers. Such a clutching, grabbing mob. She had the feeling that if Christ were here today he would be as disgusted with this mad throng as he had been with the money changers of old. But perhaps there never had been a Christ! Certainly his teachings were little enough followed today. The celebration of his birthday had descended to a greedy exchange of gifts. Gifts? No it could hardly be called that. A gift was something given freely from the heart. Some thing that took with it a bit of the soul of the giver. These other things she had been buying today were not gifts, they were presents to others who gave presents to her. The gifts she looked at longingly and passed by. These she couldn't afford: the gladstone bag for Bob, an adorable little silk dress for Amy's Beth, a snuggly quilted robe for Sue, who had always been her best loved friend and for whom life was so pitifully hard just now. It was especially too bad about the bag. It seemed a shame that the man who struggled so hard and turned every cent he earned over to his family should always have to smile cheerfully on Christmas morning and say thanks for shirts and socks, never could have any of the small luxuries that he would love. She bought the shirts and ties with a sigh and passed on to a consideration of things for the children. Would the doll bed be too babyish for Molly? Molly was eight this month and whenever Alice thought of her a tiny spasm of fear clutched her heart. They had had such a time bringing the child to these eight years. This morning she had had a slight cold and Alice had thought it would be better to postpone her shopping trip. But the time was so terribly short that she had given careful instructions to her mother's helper and left home with a heavy heart. THE winter dark had descended before Alice was through and could climb into her car and drive wearily home. She felt frozen through, yet strangely soiled and sticky. Outside all day the wind had been bitter, penetrating the fur of her coat as if it had been sheerest muslin. Inside the stores had been warm enough but the odors of cafeteria food and hurrying humanity had made her faintly sick. When she finally opened the door of her own home everything was so quiet that she felt instinctively that something must be wrong. She called out before she saw any one, "How's everything?" "Fine," the mother's helper answered. "Molly has slept nearly all day and the rest are playing in the basement." "Slept?" Alice cried in a high unnatural voice. "Oh, that isn't so good. She wouldn't sleep unless her temperature were rather high." Alice dropped her bundles, hat, coat, purse, gloves without regard to where they landed on the way to Molly's room. The child's forehead was hot to her lips as she murmured. "Mother wil' just slip into something easier to work in and give you a nice cool sponge. You'll feel better." After the bath and a light supper of fruit and toast the child seemed better and Alice was free to turn her attention to the rest of the family. When the last one was settled and she lay at last on her own bed she thought she had never been so tired. But it was long before she could sleep. Her mind was a jumble of thoughts. The many things she had yet to do before Christmas, the inappropriateness of some of the things she had bought today, and constantly recurring the little demon of worry over Molly. T last she dozed, only to be wakened almost at once by the sotind of coughing, dry, hard coughing that sounded as if it had no bottom and accomplished nothing. With icy fingers she groped for slippers and robe and stumbled into Mbolly's room. The child's head was clammy damp, but her hands were dry and hot. In panic Alice called to Bob and hurried to the phone to summon the doctor. But the doctor was out on an all night case. They worked alone through the interminable night. At times it seemed as if the child were better, but they never could be sure. Alice thought with a shudder of the terrible winter when Molly had had pneumonia. WHEN the doctor finally arrived Tom had had to leave for the office and Alice without his calm sureness was a victim of her fears and imaginings. She could hardly move her legs, so weak they felt, to let the doctor in and take him back to Molly's room. The examination seemed endless. When he finally raised his head and said, “We had better get her into the hospital right away," it seemed to Alice that her life had been an eternity of waiting for those fearful words. She felt her heart turn into ice and slowly congeal her body. She just could force her stiffened lips to form the dread word, "pneumonia?" At the sound of her strange voice the doctor looked full at her face and said gently, "Not yet. Don't worry. She isn't so bad, only it is better to fight this type with Be sfsion from the beginning." He had said, "not yet" but he had said "this type" and Alice knew too deep for any words to affect the knowledge that it was pneumonia, that the child was sicker than she had ever been. It was better to be sure. She knew now what she had to face. Her voice was steady as she said, "I'll call Bob. Will you arrange for a room for us?" Bob was home sooner than she had believed possible. As he placed the little blanket-wrapped form in her arms in the car she could scarcely restrain the desire to press the little one against her throbbing heart and cry out, "You can't leave us, oh, you GIFTS 37 38 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mustn't." But the little girl with trusting eight year old eyes looked into the mother's face and said, "Will I be home for Chrsitmas?" "Of course, dear," Alice answered with a smile that was almost more than she could manage. Christmas! Of what significance was Christmas? Oh, yes, it was supposed to be the birthday of the Savior of the world. For what had he saved it? For little ones to be torn from the arms of their mothers? For thousands to go hungry and shivering? A sorry place it was. Alice had always had a trusting child-like faith but the events of the past few years had made some pretty deep dents in her religious armor. Now she wondered if there were'a God why his people showed so few of the attributes of divinity. "You won't leave me, Mama?" Molly asked with a note of pain in her baby voice. "No, I won't leave you, dear." The child closed her eyes but the mother cried out within herself. "But what if you leave us? Oh, my darling, I had rather bear you a thousand times than lose you like this." How she hated to put the child in a hospital, cold, unfeeling, an institution. THAT first day was one long nightmare of half-hour periods. A half-hour under the oxygen tent, a half-hour of hot packs. To Alice, watching the little girl so still and blue, it seemed as if all her life had been lived in this hospital room watching for the pink to creep into Molly's fingers and lips under the blessed tent watching the dread blue return in such a few seconds when it was taken away. FROM somewhere she gathered strength to go through that day and endless other days. She moved as a woman in a dream. Nurses came and encouraged her to drink hot, strengthening liquids. Office attendants summoned her to the phone over and over that she might assure Bob, who must keep working, that everything was just the same. On the second morning when she came into the hospital she noticed that the nurse on duty was familiar. Her own little sister. "Why, Florence, how did you know?" "Mother called me and I came," the girl answered simply. "But you were on your honeymoon? What about Charles?' Alice asked. "He told me to come. Often the difference between some one the child knows and trusts and a stranger is enough to make all the difference." "How can I ever tell you how grateful I am?" Alice asked while the tears streamed down her face. "No need. I'm not doing anything I don't want to do." For the first time a feeling of gratitude entered Alice's heart. She began to notice others and to sense, at least partly, the part they were playing in the drama of her life. As she entered the hospital so early every morning the attendants stopped to ask her how the child was. Relatives of other patients knocked softly on the door and made kindly inquiries. N the fifth day the doctor said, "You can stay tonight" and she knew the crisis was near. She sat by the child's bed weary in every bone and almost too numb to think. Late in the evening the superintendent himself wheeled in an operating cart. "It isn't awfully comfortable," he said, "but it is better than sitting up all night." Bob helped her on to the cart, covered her gently and held GIFTS 39 her hand as together they watched while the fever shot up, the child became delirious and the rapid breathing more and more uneven. Two nurses worked madly and at last when the watchers felt they could bear it no longer the child resumed a more normal breathing and the doctor said, "I believe she'll make it." IN the next few days Alice came to know more of the workings of a hospital. It was a little city in itself. A city of pain and sorrow and death. But a city of love and kindness and sacrifice. Every day people did things for her that were far outside the bounds of duty and she in turn felt the desire to extend comfort and help. All these, Molly's neighbors, had a place in her thoughts and prayers. She came to know the special nurses and each morning was anxious to hear of the progress of their patients. There was one little nurse that interested her greatly. Stevens, the other girls called her. She was nursing the pneumonia in 208 who was the mother of five children. "No one thinks she'll live but her husband and me," the girl told Alice. "I know she will and I'm not going to give up or rest till she goes home, if I only weigh eighty pounds." IT was four days, three days, two days until Christmas. Alice's preparations were forgotten. She got a few simple gifts for Molly to have for her nurses on Christmas morning and she helped with the tree being planned for the children in the ward. She was so busy and so thankful for Molly's improvement that she forgot to resent it that the child would not be home for Christmas or to worry that her own Christmas preparations would not be made." Christmas Eve she stayed all night at the hospital to watch the even breathing of her child and just be thankful. She must have dozed in her chair for she was wakened by the sound of music. "Glory to God, Glory to God, Glory to God in the highest. Peace on earth good will to men Peace on earth good will to men." Alice looked toward the bed where Molly stirred slightly and murmured, "The music is pretty, Mamma." "Pretty!" Alice thought. "It is divine. An expression of the spirit of the Master. 'Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of these the least of mine....'! Once again the music came. "On earth peace, good will to men." T home her table would be piled with presents. But here in the hospital she had found gifts.. Gifts of the spirit. Purified by suffering she was able to see the spirit of the Master reflected in his children. She began to count her gifts and the givers. The little sister who gave her honeymoon so willingly and the young husband who would not have it otherwise. The nurses who gave attention far above their price. The visitors who brought cheer to an overburdened heart. Suddenly she understood the spirit of Chrsitmas. It did not belong to one season only. Life was full of gifts. Here in a hospital room she had found the spirit of Christ and she knew that where his spirit was in such abundance was the sweet assurance of the existence of God, who looks after little children and bestows upon all his gifts, Notes from the Field Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary Hollywood and Pasadena Stakes HOLLYWOOD and Pasadena Stakes, though the division was made earlier, worked together until the conclusion of the Relief Society year in June, 1936. The accompanying pictures are examples of the joint efforts of these two splendid Stakes. The one is of a pageant, which graphically explained the educational work of the Relief Society, and the following picture is a beautiful display of the handicraft work. These two pictures speak for themselves, and tell most completely of the skill, ingenuity and artistry of these fine Relief Society workers. With the opening of the latter part of the year's work, their efforts will be directed into their respective Stakes, and we certainly expect much from them. Rigby Stake DURING the present Fall one of the veteran Relief Society Presidents was released, and a most beautiful testimonial was given in her honor. For eighteen years Sister Lettie E. Call has given devoted service to the Relief Society cause, and has been the President of the Rigby Stake for more than twelve years. Her co-workers and the people of the community which she has served so long and so well, joined in the lovely event, which took place in the Stake Tabernacle in Rigby. Tributes from the people of the Stake, including the Priesthood, were in rich abundance. The Relief Society Stake Board presented Sister Call witha beautiful wrist watch. The General Board of Relief Society regretted very much PAGEANT, HOLLYWOOD AND PASADENA STAKES NOTES FROM THE FIELD — DISPLAY, HANDICRAFT WORK, HOLLYWOOD AND PASADENA STAKES not being able to have a personal representative in attendance, but they sent their expressions of the high regard in which Sister Call is held. They are deeply grateful for the fine cooperation always experienced from her in her work. Sister Call retires with the love and best wishes of all who knew her, for many happy useful years yet to come. Mount Ogden Stake ANOTHER Relief Society sister who has won great distinction for her leadership and fine service is Sister Almira C. Rich. For nearly a quarter of a century, Sister Rich has been identified with the Relief Society work in the Mount Ogden Stake, and the effect of her leadership has been in evidence in every field. In October of this year the Relief Society organizations of her Stake joined in giving a most beautiful testimonial in recognition of her fine services. This was held in the Twelfth Ward Chapel in Ogden, and each Ward of the Stake assumed responsibility for the fine event. A program of excellent music by the Singing Mothers, and expressions of appreciation for Sister Rich from her co-workers, offered a very pleasant afternoon's entertainment. This happy event was concluded by a social hour in which all participated. Lost River Stake IN August 21st, the annual flower show of the Lost River Stake was held at Darlington. According to the press report, all previous shows, which have been representative of the best the valley could produce, were eclipsed by this year's display. The beauty, variety and arrangement of the flowers was particularly artistic. A record number of people attended the program, and afterwards inspected the handwork of the sisters of the Stake. This Stake also records the work of one of its Visiting Teachers, who is a convert to the Church, and for the past nine years has never missed visiting her district. If her companion is unable to go she does not fail to make the call. Deseret Stake HE following is an account of the manner in which the Magazine Drive was so successfully conducted. The Magazine Agent in the Delta Second Ward cooperated with the Relief Society officers in serving a hot dinner, which sold for 42 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE PAGEANT, JEROME WARD 25c per plate. The materials used for the dinner were donated by the members. The proceeds from the sale of the food was divided equally among all who helped, and this was found to amount to 80c per person. The money was given to each individual with the understanding that she subscribe to the Relief Society Magazine. This, together with the house to house visit by the Agent, proved to be a very successful method of securing the desired results. Blaine Stake THE above is a picture of a most beautiful pageant which was presented by the Jerome Ward Relief Society. It furnished the program for the Ward Conference and was given under the able direction of Viola Redford, Ward Chorister. This pageant of "The Gate Beautiful," is most expressive of the aims and hopes of the Relief Society women in their educational program. Bear River Stake THE Bear River Stake decided to try out the plan of holding district conferences during the Summer months. The object was to bring closer contact between the Ward Officers and Members. There were five of these district conferences in which every Ward participated. The first was held July 28, 1936. The Presidency from each Ward was invited to attend, and at the close of the program a social hour was spent and light refreshments served. It proved to bea most successful means of bringing about the desired result, and drawing closer the bonds of love and harmony between Stake and Ward workers. The program of the conventions consisted of fine music, addresses of welcome by the presidents, and inspirational talks on the subject of "Growth Through Service." Notes to the Field DURING the coming year it is hoped that the Stakes will report their fine activities to the General Office. Be assured that the material will be used just as soon as possible. There are two issues of the Relief Society Magazine where it is impossible to include the "Notes" and these are the May and November issues, when all available space is required for a report of the General Relief Society Conferences. The office wishes to thank the Stakes for their fine co-operation in writing up interesting events. The material is used just as nearly as possible in the order in which it is received at the office. Literary Department Abraham Lincoln. As you go to meeting, go over carefully what you know about Abraham Lincoln. As you walk home consider what you have added to your store of knowledge. Make note of all the stories of home life you come across. What qualities did Lincoln show in smoothing difficulties in his home? Pp. 272- 276. In studying Abraham Lincoln mothers will have a delightful opportunity of getting close to their children and in having a common interest. They should tell their children what they learn about Lincoln and have them in turn try to find out all they can to tell about this great President. A Lincoln scrapbook would be most valuable for the children in the home. Many of the chapters from the Carl Sandberg book on Lincoln might be cut for excellent readings which would be most suitable for programs on the 17th of March. Some suggestions follow: The Boy Baby Arrives—chapter 4, beginning at the fourth paragraph on page 9, and ending at the middle of page 10. (short but well written.) The death of Nancy Hanks Lincoln, Page 23- 25, Chapter 11. Keepsakes and Verse of Lincoln, Chapter 63, page 197-206. Many other portions of the book could be used, as the stories told and the style of writing are both exceptionally good. There is a wealth of idealism and worthy purpose indicated in the study of the life of Abraham Lincoln. He was eager for reforms in our social and political life. 'The foundations of American society were laid by men who endured economic want and physical hardships that they might gain access to opportunities few in number and inconsiderable in importance as compared with those which today lie close at hand for all of us." With these thoughts in mind select music for the lessons which will rekindle love of country and our Flag— a symbol of Liberty. "America," "America the Beautiful," "The Flag Without a Stain," and many other patriotic songs could be used to good effect. "Your Mission" was one of President Lincoln's favorite songs. The words are found in "Heart Throbs." If you can do no better, let it be a "musical reading." One of the most beautiful poems that has been written is "O Captain! My Captain," by Walt Whitman. Perhaps no contemporary of Lincoln had a keener appreciation for the great man of the hour, than he. This poem breathes so much of our Western land. "My Captain," is a most picturesque comparison of the great War President whose steady 44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hand guided the ship of state through the troubled waters of civil war, and brought it safely into port. Whitman refuses to accept the acclaim of joy that all may feel, for to him only the sorrow is in evidence. Nothing could more graphically describe this than the poem—read it! 1. Consider impressions of Lincoln's personality which you gather from reading his letters. 2. Sketch a word picture of his early years. 3. In this connection, tell an Indian story. 4, Tell of Nancy Hanks. 5. Explain "The wilderness is careless." 6. What does this suggest, "Silence found him; he met silence." Page 30. 7. From page 39 show how, "Other elements, invisible, yet permanent, traced their lines in the tissues of his head and heart." 8. Discuss, "Books lighted lamps in the dark rooms of his gloomy hours." 9, Was Lincoln temperate? 10. What can you tell of Ann Rutledge? 11. Explain Lincoln as a "Learner always." 12. Name the five traits people spoke of in connection with Lincoln. 13. In Lincoln's letters note the clear, concise, original way he expresses himself. 14. Tell of a "Curious marriage offer." Chapter 46. 15. Describe Mary Todd. Chapter 51. 16. Tell about Lincoln's marriage. Chapter 58. 17. Read one of Lincoln's rhymes. Do you like it? Why? 18. Tell one of Lincoln's "yarns." 19. Give a quotation from Lincoln—one you like. 20. What do you think of the style of Sandberg's Abraham Lincoln? President Robison Returns N December 16th President Robison returned from attending a convention of the National Council of Women help in New York City December 1-4 and visits to points of interest in the Eastern States Mission. She reports that the Council Convention was unusually interesting this year. A forum held in connection with the Convention based on the theme "A Forecast For Better Living" stressed the part in life played by women in the home. After the Convention she accompanied President Don B. Colton of the Eastern States Mission to a branch conference at Cambridge, Massachusetts. She spent a short time with her son Rulon Y. Robison and his family in Boston and then visited the Habit Clinic For Child Guidance. She accompanied President Colton, his wife, and President John H. Taylor of the First Council of Seventy to Washington, D. C., where they attended the first conference of the Eastern States Mission to be held in that city. She found the missionaries and members there are doing an exceptionally fine piece of work. Their spirit is beautiful and their allegiance to the Church is steadfast. In our February Magazine President Robison will make a detailed report of her visit. NOTES TO THE FIELD 45 ELIZA ROXY SNOW MEMORIAL POEM CONTEST AGAIN the prize poem committee for the General Board of Relief Society is happy to announce the winners in the annual contest. A slight change will be noted this year in the contest rules, three poems are selected for prizes and no honorable mention, instead of two prize poems and three honorable mention. The first prize was awarded to Veneta L. Nielson of Logan, Utah for "Plains' Cradle Song. Second prize was to Vesta Pierce Crawford of Salt Lake City, Utah for "Blossomed Tree, and third prize to Miranda Snow Walton of Evanston, Wyoming for "The Greater Death." The judges this year were Professor Harrison R. Merrill of the B. Y. University, Mrs. Blanche Thomas McKey, poet, and teacher, and Mrs. Lalene H. Hart, member of Relief Society General Board. 96 poems were submitted, most of them excellent, rendering the selection rather difficult. The committee congratulates the successful authors, and thanks all who entered the contest, hoping they will continue their interest in this project for the encouragement of women writers. The committee also expresses appreciation to the judges for their assistance and helpfulness. Annie Wells Cannon, Juila A. F. Lund, Rosannah C. Irvine, Lotta Paul Baxter, Mary C. Kimball, Poem Contest Committee GREETING CARD CONTEST THE General Board compliments the stakes that participated in the Greeting Card Contest as outlined. In the July, 1936, Relief Society Magazine. We extend our hearty congratulations to the following prize winners, who will each receive a copy of Handicrafts for Every Woman. Block Print, Mt. Ogden Stake Mrs. E. H. Slade, 573 27th Street, Ogden, Utah. Linoleum Block Cut, Union Stake Miss Effie Hughey, Le Grande, Oregon. Stencil, Western States Mission Belva Fluckiger, 517 West 22 St., Cheyenne, Wyo. Wax Crayon, Juarez Stake Mrs. Margaret B. Cluff, Colonia Pacheco, Mexico. Spatter Paint, California Mission Mrs. H. K. Carmen, 504 Riverside Drive, Susanville, California. Special Prize, R. S. Greeting Card, Sevier Stake Mrs. Ruth S. Peterson, 80 East First So., Richfield, Utah. Water Color, Wasatch Stake Fontella C. Woolstenholm, Heber. Wasatch Co., Utah. We extend our appreciation to Wasatch Stake for entering the largest number of cards in the contest. HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon THERE would be no past regrets if each day one lived as though it were the beginning of a New Year. COUNTESS WALDECK, Hungarian journalist and traveller discusses in an illuminating lecture "Women Under Dictatorship," how women under Hitler and Mussolini lived under their restricted freedom and comments what significance the position of these women may have in the future of all women. ANTACIO CARMARGO, of New Mexico, 118 years old, has lived under four flags—Spanish, Mexican, Texas-Republic and United States. She is happy to live as long as she can work. NAZIMOVA, Russian ragedienne has returned to the legitimate drama and her favorite role— Ibsen's 'Hedda Gabler." On the opening night in New York she had 38 curtain calls. INA CLAIRE, blonde vivacious actress, during a starring performance of "End of Summer" in Chicago, was told that she had been awarded a gold medal for good diction by the American Academy of Arts and Letters. After the performance she was officially notified by Dr. William Lyons Phelps. ERNESTINE SCHUMANN HEINK is mourned the world over. Few women have been so renowned and so beolved. Her rich contralto voice thrilled in Grand Opera in the great capitals of Europe and America, cheered soldiers in army camps and sufferers in hospitals. Her motherly heart embraced all mankind in love. KATHERINE CORNELL, in Maxwell Anderson's new drama, "The Wingless Victory" is making her usual success. HATTIE CARAWAY of Arkansas is the only woman in the United States Senate this year, and there are five women in the House of Representatives, while in Brazil where suffrage has maintained only two years there are two women in Congress, ten women Mayors, eight women Consuls and women Secretaries of Labor, Education and Public Health. Mrs. REVA BECK BOSONE is the first woman judge to serve in Salt Lake City. JUDGE FLORENCE ALLEN, of Ohio, in holding Ohio's minimum wage law affecting 42,000 women and minors constitutional, declared the United States supreme court did not criticize the minimum wage law but the method of setting up wage scales. MARGARET FLINT'S _ book, "The Old Ashburn Place," won the $10,000 novel prize this last year and there are other charming novels by women well worth reading. MRS. KATHERINE KENT THURSTON, of Utah, is the recipient of a $60 prize for a poem —"At Her Wedding." This poem will be included in an anthology of heretofore unpublished poems. Mrs. Thurston is a widow and the mother of 10 children. HAZEL HILL GREENWOOD, so deeply mourned by all her associates, gave unsparingly her talents and her service in the work of humanity. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES Nye LYMA JULIA A. F. LUND Emma A, Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B. Knight Rosannah C. Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Cora L, Bennion Ida P. Beal Editor - - Manager - - Assistant Manager Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Amy Whipple Evans Irvine Nettie D. Bradford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Marcia K, Howells Emeline Y, Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S, Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXIV JANUARY, 1937 No. 2 Editorial Health HEALTH is a priceless boon. People today realize more than ever before that a great deal of illness results from not adhering more strictly to the laws of health. Sins of omission and commission in this field are manifold. Especially is it vital that children's health should be safeguarded. There was a time when parents deliberately exposed their children to disease, their theory being that if contracted while young the cases would be light and that they would be immune when older when the attacks would be more severe. This fallacy has been strongly advised against by physicians. Mothers are urged to guard their little ones against these children's diseases, as it is affirmed the longer they can go without contracting them the better. Some mothers are very careless and needlessly expose their children's playmates by not keeping their own children home when coming down with the disease, while others are careless in observing quarantine regulations. Many children have died and some have suffered permanent injury through some mother taking her sick child where others have contracted the disease. Being sorry or saying "I didn't think" will not atone. Physicians and research laboratories are doing everything they can to cut down sickness, and remarkable success is being attained in some lines. Some diseases have been largely controlled. In others no progress has been made, and some illnesses are on the increase. The Utah State Planning Board issued in April, 1936, a valuable book entitled Health Conditions and Facilities of Utah. It is pointed out that in the Beehive State, teeth defects top the list of physical defects among children. We are glad our 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE organizations in many places are cooperating with parents in removing this defect. While in Utah smallpox has been the lowest in its history during the past year, this disease may be eliminated if universal vaccination is resorted to. The book also states that, "No child in Utah need have diphtheria. This goal could be realized by the immunization of all children between the ages of six months and two years." Here again our organizations have aided in making many children immune. There were more cases of scarlet fever in Utah in 1935 than for the combined total of the previous seven years, and the death rate was higher than any year since 1911. Physicians are inclined to believe that the mildness of the cases is the primary factor in causing the rise of morbidity rates. So often these mild cases are not detected, properly diagnosed, and children are either careless or maliciously permitted to go to school or to mingle with other children. Every few years the death rate from measles and whooping cough reaches an exceptionally high peak in Utah. There is a great need for mothers to be educated, so that they will isolate their infants during periods when whooping cough is prevalent. "Acquired heart disease is most frequently due to improper habits of living and to infections, particularly those of the rheumatic group. Other diseases often leave heart trouble in their wake." While we do not have similar reports from other states where our people reside we feel sure the conditions are relatively the same and we urge our members to do all in their power to prevent the spread of disease. We also hope that our organizations will do as much as their funds will permit in aiding parents who are financially unable to minister to their children's health needs. Happy New Year O our many readers we extend heartiest wishes for a happy, prosperous New Year filled with good deeds and worth while accomplishments. This is a wonderful time in which ot live. So many changes arrest attention and the future doubtless will bring undreamed of wonders. The Church is marching forward. New wards and stakes are being organized, new buildings erected, beautiful monuments dedicated and a great Security Program is being launched that is challenging the attention of the world. The members of the Church are showing renewed interest as seen in the increased payment of tithes and offerings and in their more faithful adherence to all the Gospel requirements. We congratulate our stakes on the excellence of the conventions that have just been completed. The general preparation and the topics given have been better than ever before. Reports reach us from all parts of the Church that the lesson work is being carried forward better this year than ever in our history. Our women have accomplished herculean tasks in their great desire to aid the Security Program. With deep gratitude we acknowledge this faithful work and pray that our Father will make our officers and members adequate for whatever tasks await them in the future. Lesson Department (For First Week in March) Theology and Testimony Lesson 6 CHRIST THE CHAMPION OF WOMAN Helpful References. Matthew 5:27-32; 15:21-28; 19:3- 12; 22:23-33; 26:6-13. Mark 10:2-12; 14:3-9; 16:1-10. Luke 7:36-50; 8:43-48; 10:38-42; 20:45-47, John 4:5-42; 8:3-11; 11:1-45; 12: 1-8;19:25-27; 20:11-18. Smith: The Way To Perfection, chapters 34, 35. Talmage: Jesus the Christ, pp. 473- 475; 484; 432-434. Rall: The Teachings of Jesus, pp. 103, 104. Findlay: The Realism of Jesus, chapter 8. Silver: Religion and a Changing World, chapter 8. 1. Woman and Her Place as a Human Soul. In this lesson we shall observe how the Christ handled the second of the five basic principles underlying the law of Moses. It deals fundamentally, as did the principle considered in the last lesson, with the sacred nature of human personality. The Savior deals particularly with woman and her place, first of all, as a human soul. We shall not confine ourselves only to a consideration of Matthew 5:27-32, but shall let other Gospel references shed as much light as possible on the subject. 2. Christ the Great Champion and Ennobler of Womankind. Dr. Joseph Klausner, famous authority on Hebrew literature, said in his book, Jesus of Nazareth, "The crucial test of a nation's civilization at any specified epoch, is the position of its women." The good Doctor holds, too, that the position of women among the Jews at the time of Christ was a "tolerably high" one. Some scholars deny this. Whatever the facts may be, certain it is that the Savior is regarded as the great champion and ennobler of womankind. The late Elder James E. Talmage remarks in his book, Jesus the Christ, "The world's greatest champion of women and womanhood is Jesus the Christ." In Matthew 5:27-32 we find the Christ's discussion of the second basic principle of the law of Moses. He points out that to "look upon" a woman with lustful desire is to do her a great wrong, for it is nothing more or less than a degradation of her personal worth. She is not "first of all a woman, but a human soul." Asa certain writer here points out, "the primary reality is always humanity and the common human relation to the common Father." The Savior directs our attention to the fact that to be dominated by animal passion, however natural it may seem, not only degrades the object of the passion, but also constitutes treason to the soul of man. At any cost man must conquer his impulses. Better is it to lose a member of the body than to have the whole body "cast into hell." Our Lord then points out the sacred character 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the marriage tie and by implication the importance of wholesome home life. He makes allusion to divorce as handled by the law of Moses and recorded in Deuteronomy 24:1. His pronouncement respecting divorce is to us clear and unmistakable. Only in the case of unfaithfulness may a wife be divorced. In another connection the Christ reiterated and extended this doctrine. When certain Pharisees came to him with questionable motives and asked? "Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause?"— He answered them clearly that in the beginning it was not so. God had intended man and woman by marriage to be one flesh. "What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder." Furthermore, He points out that Moses suffered men to put away their wives only "because of the hardness of your hearts." It is clear He means in this instance, as in others, that the law of Moses had an end and the higher law was to operate. The Savior saw with clear eyes the necessity of protecting women in the most important of all social relations. And if men would receive it, they also are benefited beyond measure! The pronouncements of the Christ on this vital topic have evoked a veritable deluge of literature. The complex nature of our modern life has perhaps made it harder for men to receive the teaching respecting divorce in our age than it was at the time of Christ. Some tell us that a new order of society is in the making, that eventually marriage and the home as conceived in a conservative past, are doomed to disappear. Judging from statistics on crime and divorce daily presented in newspapers and periodicals, one is sometimes tempted to believe such is the case. However, there occasionally arises a clear voice facing the facts and having optimism for the future. Abba Hillel Silver, in his book, Religion in a Changing World, says, "To form a judgment of the average American home based solely on the numerous instances of impermanence and infidelity which obtrude themselves upon our attention or are chronicled in the public press, is altogether unwarranted. The millions of American homes are still sound. Love and fidelity and the spirit of self-sacrifice have not yet entirely vanished from the dwelling places of our people and around millions of firesides the sanctities of life still hover. There are still vast reserves of spiritual and moral strength in the American home and one need not anticipate its early liquidation.... On the other hand, it would be the sheerest folly-to assume that all is well with the American home. All is not well with the American home. The American home is in ferment. It is passing through the preliminary stages of a new adjustment made necessary by the new conditions of life, and like all adjustments, it is attended by pain, suffering, and tragedy. The American home is being attacked by new social, economic, and intellectual forces, and it has not yet perfected the strategy with which to meet the new conditions." 'While admitting certain changes are always necessary to meet new circumstances even in the home, the Church of Jesus Christ oi Latter-day Saints still teaches the sanctity of marriage ties and the reverence for womanhood as taught by the Christ. We are in thorough sympathy with the words of a certain English writer when he says, "There is no such championship of the right of woman to an equal place in the sun in her own right as that of Jesus, and, if we knew the whole truth, we should see that He is not only nearer the ideal, but also nearer the real facts of the case. For the Christian, at least, the thing that counts is a woman's soul; the salvation of the man who loves her depends upon his respect for what is eternal in her." 3. Christ and the Samaritan Woman. Some of the most charming episodes in the Gospels have references to the Savior's talks with women. Therein is pictured His appreciation of the worth of their souls even when they themselves were known to be sinners. One of these incidents is given in the Gospel of John (4:5-42) where He is presented talking with the Samaritan woman at the well. The Christ and His disciples, hungry and spent, reached Jacob's well near a place called Sychar. The disciples went to the town to buy something to eat, leaving him sitting at the well, While thus preoccupied, a Samaritan woman came to draw water and the Savior asked her for a drink. The woman was astonished, for as the story indicates, "Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans." But she found the Christ to be no ordinary Jew. He broke down, at one stroke, the false barrier that prevented the ordinary normal association of two of God's children. Thus He paved the way for a Gospel conversation that showed his love of her eternal soul. He knew the woman was a sinner but she was reminded of it in a most gentle way. There is no instance in the Gospels in which the Christ chides a woman with the severity he used with certain men. 4. Mary Chose the Good Part. Luke 10:38-42 gives us a most unusual picture of the Savior at the home of two women, Mary and Martha. Mary sat enraptured at his feet and "heard his word" while Martha bustled around "cumbered with much serving." Finally Martha could stand the apparently unequal situation no longer, and, approaching the Savior she said, "dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me." To which the Savior answered, "Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things: But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her." Many interesting things have been said about this incident, but the thing of most interest to us about it is that the Christ did not regard women as servants merely intended to look after men's material comfort and well-being. He was interested in them as human personalities whose spiritual well-being was the prime essential. Questions 1. Can you find any Christian justification for the discrimination against women oftimes met with in industrial and even educational institutions? 2. What outstanding leaders in the United States have led the way in protecting the rights of women? 3. What needs yet to be done in the United States before women fully win the rights which a Christian way of life demands for them? 4. What did the Prophet Joseph Smith do to improve the lot of women? Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstance permit.) 1, Examine carefully Luke 8:19- - 21 and John 2:1-4, Some have said these passages show that the Christ LESSON DEPARTMENT 51 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was disrespectful to His mother. Cite scripture that would indicate such was not the case. 2. Read John 19:25-27. What side of the Christ's nature does this incident portray? Who was the "disciple'? Why was Peter or James not chosen? 3. Investigate the teachings of President Brigham Young and President Joseph F. Smith in regard to the treatment of women. Teacher's Topic (For March) Tue House Burtt Upon a Rock Matt. 7:24-27. 'THIS is not regarded as a parable by all writers on the subject, but it has such a strong appeal and presents such a fine opportunity for a good lesson that it is being included in this group of lessons. It comes at the end of the Sermon on the Mount. And Jesus said to the people: "Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: "And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock. "And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: "And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it." This comparison was especially apt for Palestine as the sudden and furious storms sweep down into the low valleys. The barren hillsides were contributive to floods and extra care needed to be taken in building in order to withstand wind and water. The hearers of the parable had no difficulty in making the application which Jesus intended. If we are thoroughly familiar with the truths of the Gospel and have a strong faith in its principles and teaching we can more easily withstand the shocks of adversity and misfortune that come to us. Christ emphasized the "doing" as well as the "hearing" of the word. To hear the Gospel and do as it teaches makes for strength and security. We should read the Sermon on the Mount to determine to what extent we are as "the wise man which built his house upon a rock." LESSON DEPARTMENT 53 Work and Business Sire Covers (See "Handicrafts for Every Woman" p. 47 Uses. LIP covers have become a part S of home furnishing and decoration. When they are put to proper uses and in harmony with other articles, they give a very delightful effect. They can be used the year around if both warm and cool colors are chosen. Slip covers serve many purposes. They may be purely decorative, but more often they are for furniture protection. They are taking the place of tidies and doilies, and are much more practical. More comfort can be taken in the easy upholstered chair if simple, plain washable and well fitted slip covers are used. Slip covers prolong the life of the new furniture. The thrifty homemaker can make slips to protect and cover worn places, and in this way extend its usefulness, when a purchase of new furniture is entirely out of the question. Selection of Materials. First take into consideration the room. For bedrooms, percales, creton, plain Indian head and chintz in small and dainty figures. For living rooms, more dignified conventional cretons, plain and blocked linens. For dining room, waterproof ginghams, percales, cotton crash, Indian head in colors, monks cloth. For the sun parlor or porch bold stripes and figures may be used. Before purchasing, when possible, it is a good idea to get the store to send samples of one or two yard lengths, in a variety of materials to lay over the furniture to see which is best for the room before one makes the purchase, Always try to buy the best material that can be afforded. The inexpensive pieces fade both in light and laundry. As a rule they are filled, and soon wash out, making them look clumsy and cheap. Better colors and designs are found in the better grade fabrics. Even though they cost more in the beginning they are pretty as long as they last. The heavier the material the smoother they fit and the less wrinkles they have. Some good materials are: rep, crash, cotten damask, galatea, drapery sateen, handblocked linen, denim, and tapestry. These offer a wide range of color and pattern. Besides harmonizing with the walls and floor covering, slip-covers should be selected in good taste. For example large rooms and large pieces of furniture require fabric of smaller design and lighter texture and color. The surface of the cloth should be smooth to keep dust from sifting through, also free from loose lint. Glazed chintz and cambric muslin in bright colors lend a cheerful atmosphere to a room. Articles To Have Slip Covers.. Living room furniture, all upholstered furniture, dining room chair seats, bedroom chairs, foot stools, cossak, also pads for straight chairs. Steps To Be Taken. OR the construction of slip-covers an estimate of fabric and the yardage should be very accurately taken to determine the cost. Fasten one end of the tape measure to the lower edge of the chair 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE frame at the center back, measure to the top of the chair, across the top and down the front of the back along a straight line, over the seat and down the front edge. Always add four inches for tucking in along the back of the seat in case there is shrinking in laundering; also add six inches for seams and finishing at lower edges. For the arms fasten tape measure at the seat and bring up over the arms to the outside edges. Be sure sufficient allowance is made for all seams. If material has large figures. Or has an up and down pattern additional yardage must be purchased. If the slip-cover is finished with a pleated or gathered ruffle more cloth will be needed than for a plain cover. For gathering fullness allow twice as many widths as the chair measures and three times as many for pleating, multiply the number of widths by the desired depth of the ruffle to obtain the total amount needed and make additional allowance for hemming and matching the pattern. Thus, for a seven inch gathered valance on a chair 42 inches are required and at least a half yard more must be allowed for hems and matching, It is advisable to shrink all washable materials before making. Well fitted slip-covers require a placket or opening. Its position depends entirely upon the piece of furniture that is being covered, and upon the types of fastenings being used. Snaps, hooks and eyes or buttons, allow an opening to gap if much strain is put on it. Fit covers closely. OOSE cushions should be covered separately and the covering should be the same style as that of the cushion. Covers for box cushions must be made boxed and never made merely by sewing two pieces of cloth together. The kind of seams depends largely upon material used— French or bound seams. For class room demonstration take a small bedroom chair or article not too large to handle. Pad with worn out quilt or blanket or any soft material. First cut paper patterns for back, arms and seat by laying paper over surface and fitting as near as possible. For the first time in making slip covers cut a try-slip cover by using worn out sheets or just any old material. Sew and fit on chair very smoothly. Rip open your tryslip cover and use for the pattern to lay on your new material. Cut, sew and fit before the class. Show in class samples and prices of materials which are suitable for different types of furniture. Reference. Text Book, "Handicrafts For Every Woman," on Slip Covers, page 47. U. S. Department of Agriculture Leaflet, No. 76, on Slip Covers. Where possible get furniture stores to demonstrate slip covers. LESSON DEPARTMENT 55 Literature (For Third Week in March) Lesson 6 ABRAHAM "Geography is about maps; Biography is about chaps." —Gilbert Chesterton. HIS has been styled a "waggish couplet;" but it suggests to us that biography is sometimes about very real chaps—chaps whose lives have been the pivot upon which great and stupendous changes have taken place. Lincoln did not remain long in Congress. Time swept into the Senate of the United States, Stephen A. Douglas, a Democrat, and in the House of Representatives was also a Democrat. Yet while Lincoln was no longer in office he had assisted in the national campaign for the Whigs. A paper, in Boston, commenting on his Tremont Temple Speech, said: "It was powerful and convincing and was cheered to the echo." Sorrow came to him in the death of his little son, "Eddie." Lincoln turned to his law practice. He soon became eminent because he won decisions that were momentous. He declared that he would never again go into politics; for his law practice was bringing to him a richness of life such as could not accrue from service in the lower house of Congress. Yearly his practice was increasing. Much as Lincoln desired to stay with his law practice, destiny was shaping another road for him to travel; for Calhoun, Clay, and Webster were dead, and the country needed other leaders. Abolitionist organizations were taking the form of a religious crusade LINCOLN  'They had leaped into a fierce stride with the passage at Washington of a law requiring all people North to help slave hunters from the South in the capture of runaway property." People were becoming incensed. "One Sabbath at church a book started to write itself," as its author sat listening to the sermon. She wrote it and read it to her children and the tears ran down their faces; the father came in; he cried, too." It was Uncle Tom's Cabin, This was in 1852. Eight power presses were employed printing it; the sales reached more than 300,000. A check for $10,000 arrived four months after its publication. Harriet Beecher Stowe, a mother of six, had achieved this remarkable result. Mary Todd Lincoln had borne four children. In 1850 came William Wallace, and in the spring of 1853, Thomas, nicknamed Tad. As Lincoln traveled there was a feeling of change in the air. They began to feel the pulse of the West. Douglas was telling the country from the floor of the Senate: "There is a power in the nation greater than the North or the South.... That power is the country known as the Great West." The people were coming in droves from Europe. All this Lincoln saw. "He saw Germans, Irish, English by tens of thousands, come into Illinois. Fourteen steamboats were ice-locked near Cario, in the Mississippi in 1854. Up at Nauvoo, where the Mormon colony had moved out and crossed the Great Plains and the 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Rocky Mountains, to settle at the Great Salt Lake in the midst of the Great American Desert, had come a group of French communists. Near Athens in Sangamon County was a settlement of Norwegians, north of Springfield was a huddle of Portuguese." Across the Great Plains stretching east from the foothills of the Rocky Mountains toward the Mississippi River were many wagon trains. A traveler counted 459 wagons in ten miles along the Platte River. Yet trouble was brewing. Riders from Missouri, a slave state, got on their horses with rifles and rode over into Kansas and battled with abolitionists from New England. "Peace societies organize; they aim to stop war. They distribute Charles Sumner's address on The True Grandeur of Nations, in which he says: There is no war which is honorable, no peace which is dishonorable." THE first cablegram is sent across the sea; a rifle known as the breech-loading rifle is on the market; men shoot bullets more often and quicker. Wendell Phillips drops his law practice to become an advocate of abolition. He complains that the churches are slow; "the theatre bowing to its audience has preached immediate emancipation, and given us the whole of Uncle Tom; while the pulpit is either silent or hostile." On the stage, "slaves shoot their hunters with applause." Still in many hamlets and towns it is the church people who hide runaway negroes in cellars, and who carry on the antislavery organizations. Civil war in Kansas threatened the entire nation in 1856. In Massachusetts Emerson told the people that they "must learn to do with less... Sell their acres, and their pleasant houses." Lincoln had met with clergymen, from the South, who said the Bible gave authority for slavery. One day while chatting with them he said: "When I see strong hands sowing, reaping, and threshing wheat into bread, I cannot refrain from wishing that those hands, some way, in God's good time, shall own the mouth-they feed!" Now we have Douglas and Lincoln pitted against each other in a contest for the United States Senate. Stephen A. Douglas, Senator from Illinois was leading man in the great drama of American politics. He was nationally and internationally known. When he read from his papers, in Washington, a speech of Lincoln's saying, that. A house divided against itself cannot stand, the Senator was more than interested. When he read that the state Republican convention had "with cheers resolved 'that Hon. Abraham Lincoln is our first and only choice for United States Senator to fill the vacancy about to be created by the expiration of Mr. Douglas' term of office; he was again more than interested." Judge Douglas was given an ovation when he returned to his native state. Sixty miles from Chicago, a special train "with brass bands, flags, streamers, and pennants met him on July 9th and escorted the statesman to Chicago. As he stepped out on the Lake Street balcony of the Tremont House that night, rockets and red fire lit the' street; he gazed into what the Chicago Times called 'an ocean of upturned faces' and a transparent sign reading 'Welcome to Stephen A. Douglas, the Defender of Popular Sovereignty.' " Lincoln expected that some day Douglas would be the President of the United States. LESSON DEPARTMENT 57 That night Douglas made his first speech of the campaign. In it he accused Mr. Lincoln of "boldly advocating war between the North and the South." After that whenever Judge Douglas talked at any length he quoted Lincoln, 'that the government could not be permanent half slave and half free,' and intimated that what Lincoln wanted was war. Lincoln would also quote from his "House Divided" speech and say: he expected a crisis; he didn't wish it." time progressed Lincoln grew in strength. One night there was a parade. Following the carriage of Mr. Lincoln was a wagon with thirty-two young ladies representing the states of the Union. The wagon bore the motto: 'The Girls All Link To Lincoln, As Their Mothers Linked To Clay." Across the main street was a banner, bearing on one side the words, "Coles County for Lincoln, and on the other an immense painting of a man driving a team of six horses. This was Abe as he appeared thirty years ago, when he drove a wagon across the country; then a poor teamster, unnoticed and unknown; now the object of almost idolatrous devotion from the people of the same county." It was on an afternoon in September at Clinton, when he said: "You can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time." Lincoln was now fifty years of age; it had been thirty years since he left his father's home. Sandburg has given us a masterful description of Lincoln at this time. He says of him: "The instant he began to speak the ungainly mouth lost its heaviness, the half-listless eyes attained a wondrous power, and the people stood bewildered and_ breathless. Every movement of his long muscular frame denoted inflexible earnestness, and a something issued forth, elemental and mystical, that told what the man had been, what he was, and what he would do. There were moments when he seemed all legs and feet, and again he appeared all head and neck; yet every look of the deep-set eyes, every movement of the prominent jaw, every wave of the hard-gripping hand, produced an impression, and before he had spoken twenty minutes the conviction took possession of thousands that here was the prophetic man of the present." The people voted on November second, and while Lincoln had 4,085 more votes than Douglas, Douglas had a majority of the legislature, so he became Senator. But Lincoln's work had not been in vain, his speeches had been published in part and in full in the papers all over the country; all eyes were upon him and the presidential election was not far away. They were calling him "Old Abe." "They began that when I was thirty years old," he once said to a friend. Once his little son entered a room, where a new potrait of his father was resting against the wall. As. He saw it he cried out: "Here's another Old Abe." Lincoln was receiving enquiries from various parts of the country, asking if he would consent to run for president. He wrote to Senator Trumbull, saying, "The taste is in my mouth a little." The Lincoln men arranged for the Republican Convention in Chicago. The Republican party had now succeeded the Whigs. Members of the convention were astonished "at the noise and intensity" of the Lincoln supporters. On 58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the first two days of the convention the Seward men were allowed by the Chicago managers to have free run of the floor. But on the third day the Lincoln shouters were shoved through the doors till they filled all seats and standing room, and the New York boys were crowded out. "Nomination speeches were in single sentences. Judd said, 'I desire, on behalf of the delegation from Illinois, to put in nomination, as a candidate for President of the United States, Abraham Lincoln of Illinois, while Delano of Ohio said, 'T rise on behalf of a portion of the delegation from Ohio, to put in nomination the man who can split rails and maul Democrats—Abraham Lincoln,' " SEWARD was ahead of Lincoln on the first ballot; then came a change of votes, a second ballot was taken and the chairman spoke: "Of 466 votes 354 were cast for the candidate highest, and 'Abraham Lincoln of Illinois is selected as your candidate for President of the United States.' " Lincoln busied himself as best he could, for one in his anxious state of mind on the morning of the balloting. Finally a messenger boy handed him a telegram addressed "Abe," reading: "We did it. Glory to God!" Then followed a "flurry" of telegrams. He told the crowd in the Journal office he was going home to tell his wife the news. One heard him say, "I reckon there's a little short woman down at our house that would like to hear the news." Another heard him say: "There is a lady over yonder on Eighth Street who is deeply interested in this news; I will carry it to her." Boxes, barrels, kindling wood, fence rails and brushwood went up in bonfire smoke in the Sangamon River country that Friday night." When the chosen committee called on Lincoln at Springfield to tell him he was nominated he replied that he would co-operate, "imploring the assistance of Divine Providence." The campaign progressed with Lincoln showing greater strength as the days wore on. Then came the news of victory, which was followed by tortuous days with office seekers. The time to go to Washington was near at hand. He must see his stepmother before leaving. He missed connection with a passenger train and had to use a freight train part of the way. We are shown him with a shawl over his shoulder picking his way through the slush, where friends were awaiting him with a buggy at the station. The next morning he visited Sally Bush Lincoln. He drove eight miles out to the old farm along the road over which he had hauled wood with an ox team. Then "he and Sally Bush put their arms around each other and listened to each other's heartbeats. They held hands and talked, they talked without holding hands. Each looked into eyes thrust back in deep sockets. She was all of a mother to him. He was her boy more than any born to her. He gave her a photograph of her boy, a hungry picture of him standing and wanting, wanting. He stroked her face a last time, kissed good-by, and went away.... She knew his heart would go roaming back often, that even when he rode in an open carriage in New York or Washington with soldiers, flags, and cheering thousands along the streets he might just as like be thinking of her in the old log farmhouse out in Coles County, Illinois." The Lincolns had left their home, clothes, books, and household goods LESSON DEPARTMENT 59 were packed in boxes and trunks. They were staying at the Chenery House. Lincoln had tied his trunks himself, and had written, "A. Lincoln, The White House, Washington, D. C.," on cards which he fastened to the trunks. "He was going to the biggest house in the country, the hardest house in the country to live in: the Atlantic seaboard was the front yard, the Rocky Mountains and the Pacific slope the colossal back yard." A cold drizzle of rain was falling on the morning of February 11 when Lincoln and his party of fifteen left Springfield. A thousand people crowded in and around the brick station to wish him luck and Godspeed. "A path was made for him from the station to his car; hands stretched out for one last handshake. He had not intended to make a speech; but on the platform of the car he turned and saw his home folk, so he raised his hand for silence. His friends and neighbors stood with uncovered heads as he said: "No one who has never been placed in a like position can understand my feelings at this hour nor the oppressive sadness I feel at this parting.... Here I have lived from my youtti till now I am an old man. Here the most sacred trusts of earth were assumed; here all my children were born; and here one of them lies buried.... Today I leave you; I go to assume a task more difficult than that which devolved upon General Washington. Unless the great God who assisted him shall be with and aid me, I must fail." Bells rang, the train moved. Lincoln was on his way to Washington to face carnage and martyrdom —and to gain immortality. Note: You may obtain additional material from chapters 82 to 168. Questions 1. Where did Uncle Tom's Cabin first take form? What amount did the author receive four months after its publication? What was her name? How many children had she when she wrote the book? 2. Sandburg paints us a picture of Lincoln as he stands before an audience delivering an address. Is it a good piece of portraiture? Do you see Lincoln? Does his personality grip you? 3. What idea of the customs of the time do you get from Lincoln's visit to Coles County just before he left for Washington? How did Coles County portray Lincoin in a parade during the campaign? Why was he especially dear to Coles County, and Coles County especially dear to him? 4. Did you mothers and some of you who are not mothers weep when you read of the parting of Lincoln and Sally Bush? Do you think this an effective piece of writing? Do you feel that it is really the work of an artist? If so, why; if not, why? 5. Do you feel Lincoln's character in his parting address at the station in Springfield, Illinois? Most of his biographers say he was sometimes very sad. Is there evidence of it in the farewell speech? 6. If you deem it important that a prose writer lend interest to his writing, would you say that Sandburg has met with success in this particular? Did you cling to the book after you had commenced it? Did you wish to read more? 7. Do you feel that Lincoln was rewarded in later life for his tremendous industry and upright living? Do you think he was rewarded for his trust in God? 60 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Social Service (For Fourth Week in March) Lesson 3 Tue SERVICE OF GOVERNMENT Text: Civic Sociology by Edward A. Ross: Chapter XV. VERY citizen of good intenentions should have some knowledge of the world he lives in as to its political, social, and economic organization if his influence on the course of events is to be intelligent and constructive. Since the close of the World War in 1918 sweeping changes have occurred in the governments of the major nations of the world. In some countries the old order has entirely passed away and present sovereign power functions in an entirely new manner. In other nations changes as complete are now taking place with marked rapidity. Much of the political ideology of a few years ago is either obsolete or woefully inadequate as a basis for meeting present situations. With changing conditions, duties and responsibilities of citizenship are altered. Since the natural tendency of changing circumstances is to bring about an evaluation of national ideals, the soundness of these ideals is often brought into question by the general public. They are weighed and considered, and often re-evaluated in the light of the changing scene. While the problem is as broad as human experience, itself, the present lesson proposes the direction of attention to the following purposes: 1. To view government as an agent of social stability.  2. To encourage intelligent participation in government. That form of government known as democracy was the predominant mode of political organization at the beginning of the present century. Perhaps Russia under the Tsars and a few Asiatic States were the only nations not following its basic principles in some form or other. The common phrase justifying the World War, "To Make the World Safe For Democracy," was the motivating power for drawing millions of young men into its ranks. Democratic nations have fostered extensive suffrage, law-making by representation, popular education, a careful enumeration of safeguards for individual liberty, an elaborate system of checks and balances between the people and the government, and a high degree of economic freedom in the matter of earning a living. Moderate policies rather than extreme measures, discussion rather than force, as a means of solving problems developed a fair degree of social stability. Such ideals consider the individual of more importance than the state. Recent years have brought about much searching criticism of democratic institutions. Conclusions have not been drawn without a certain amount of agitation and turmoil to the status of democracies. Encouragement of individual initiative, sometiines with special countenance to the more able, has developed a markedly unequal distribution of wealth. At times unscrupulous persons have been sustained in making unwarranted profits. Large corporations and influential business men LESSON DEPARTMENT 61 have exerted undue influence on political power, and have, in return, reaped the reward of the favored. In the United States "pressure groups" and "lobbies" maintain organized activities to influence governmental policies to selfish ends. The marked technical developments in science and mechanical means of production has completely changed the old order which confronted a man, seeking to earn his daily bread. Unemployment is everywhere in the midst of a productive organization capable of supplying people with an ample living. As people look to government to help them out of an undesirable situation, sound judgment and a balanced point of view is imperative to the development of a wholesome attitude which will take into consideration that level of society which finds itself less fortunately situated in life. The ideals of government, which provide for all the people should be recalled, and then, when present practices are re-evaluated in the light of current conditions, legislation which is in keeping with a truer spirit of democracy may be brought about. It must be recognized that ideals of government require new application to accompany the changes which occur in society. The demands upon government to promote social stability are probably more pressing and urgent today than they have been in any past generation. The text points out the many fields into which the activities of government have extended in essential regulation of business and individual well being. We do not question the exercise of such functions because past experience has demonstrated the value of such actions. It is when new fields of activities, new regulatory functions, and new applications are advocated that we need to weigh their values in the light of established ideals. President Hoover's Research Committee reports in Recent Social Trends, 'Problems of governmental reorganization and functioning constitute a major question of adaptation and adjustment. It cannot. Be supposed that the present procedures will be able to deal effectively with the complicated types of problems certain to arise in the future, indeed already upon us. Specifically, the problems of government turn about the reorganization of areas, mechanisms, and authority; the recruitment of the necessary personnel for administration and leadership; adaptation of the techniques developed through the social sciences; the elimination of spoils and graft; the determination of the scope of governmental activity in the fields of general welfare, social control, and moralistic supervision of behavior; the determination of the amount of governmental expenditures in relation to national income, and the ways. And means of financing the government's operations; the position of the national government in its relations with the other members of the family of nations; the development of liberty, equality, and democracy, in face of the concentration of great wealth in the hands of a few. Of major importance are the relations of government to industry." (Vol. 1, page LX.) As these functions increase people depend more and more upon additional service. Naturally such services are attended by increasing costs. The ideal of greater service at decreased, or even constant cost, is quite impossible. We must prepare for increasing costs. And we must not cling too tenaciously to the old ideas and forms at the expense of the new. Better to reconsider total costs and the values derived 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE therefrom in relation to each other, and economize on less pressing needs than on some of the functions which are being decried simply because they are innovations, although it is a difficult matter to distinguish between the useful and the merely extreme. Experimentation is costly, but the matter of governmental adjustment to changing conditions is so intricate it is impossible to progress toward that end without a certain amount of experimentation. Theories are inadequate without some degree of trial. Economic security is an ideal which seems to become more difficult of realization as time goes on; yet its actuality is essential to the happiness and peace of mind of all people. New problems in industrial control with exceptional technological development mean that governmental service must assume many new forms. All these functions are expensive. If those who are unable to provide their own economic security are going to look to the government to assist them, the more able must develop a state of mind which is not too resistant to governmental attempts to do so. To quote once more from Recent Social Trends, "The service functions of government are also likely to expand because of the demands of the special economic groups. The poverty of the marginal and submarginal farmers, the insecurity of the wage earners in industry, the perplexity of the - consumers, the plight of the railroads, are likely to call for, indeed have already demanded, the close cooperation of the government. Unemployment and industrial instability are of special urgency in their demands for governmental assistance, first of all in times of emergency, but also in preventing the recurrence of disastrous crises or in minimizing their rude shocks and ghastly losses." (Vol. I, page LXII.) Just how far the sovereign power of government should go in controlling such functions for social stability is a problem upon which individual thought differs, and justly so. Not only would it be impossible to arbitrarily set the goal, it would be highly undesirable. Such is the obligation of active citizenship, to exercise the right of intelligent judgment: but intelligent judgment presupposes thoughtful consideration and study of the problems at issue. Blind adherence to a slogan or the emotional dictation of action is unlikely to bring the greatest social stability. Yet, participation by all those entitled'to suffrage is the inviolable obligation of the residents of democracies. Their problems inescapably confront all the people. Such is the obligation of living under a democratic form of government; and the more complicated the problem the greater the responsibility. Disinterest because of ignorance of current issues and lack of information leaves the road open to the grafter, the worker for special interests, and the unprincipled politician. Public office is a public trust, and should be filled only by those qualified through technical training, integrity, and moral character. Citizens should see to it that only such receive support when the problem of selection is before the people. Well qualified representatives of the people can do much to achieve the kind of government which is dictated by an impartial interpretation of its functions and ideals. The forward and backward movements, the seesaw manipulation of its rights and privileges, might be a little better balanced, a little more justly distributed, if the mass of people behind this human-driven, ceaseless motion of government would exert themselves LESSON DEPARTMENT 63 to an intelligent driving power. Why should political office, which should depend upon a knowledge of and a vital and altruistic interest in the problems of democratic living be the reward of friendship or political favor? The burden of its responsibility should rest more sweetly on the senses than the desire for the financial reward and the power it grants. Every political office should be weighted with a feeling for the problems it incurs rather than with the thought of the monetary reward it carries. If the emphasis could be shifted from the purse to the mind and spirit, great walls of difference among people might be lowered and far reaches in their interests might be united. The humming activities of industry and other forms of economic pursuit might be placed on a more cooperative base and a less competitive one. Democracy requires the ability for self-government, and_ self-government rests upon, first, intelligent leadership, second intelligent fellowship, and third, the ideal of service to fellowmen. The twelfth Article of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints places upon each of its members the obligation of "obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law.'' To do so under the ideals of self-government means that one should be actuated in all his doings by the three requisites listed above. Change of governmental practice, when necessary, should be advocated and accomplished in the manner provided for by the law. Understandings are developed through intelligent discussions. Whenever discussion is used in place of force as a means for solving the problems of our times, social stability is promoted. Both social stability and intelligent discussion require the active participation in the duties and responsibilities of citizenship. Activities 1. Make a list of the services which the government is performing for you which were not performed fifteen years ago. Evaluate each service in terms of its social stability to your community according to the highest degree of your social judgment. 2. Statistics show that a large proportion of the people do not vote when they have the right. Make a list of reasons drawn from this lesson which can be used to overcome such indifference. 3. Make a list of the things which can be done in the average home to develop an active interest in intelligent citizenship. Child Guidance Lesson 6 Tue MEANING AND ContrROL oF TEMPER TANTRUMS HAT situations in general make us angry? Whenever our purposes are frustrated, we are likely to grow angry. Anything that conflicts with our selfregard may make us lose our tempers. What are more effective ways of meeting these situations than anger? In lower forms of life anger may serve the purpose of reinforcing the power for combat. Anger, in the case of man, has a more subtle social value. Our battles are most generally 64 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cool-headed and involve legitimate rules of competition. The tongue or pen replaces the sword or club. But man comes to this high stage of control by a long course of growth and training. Christ spoke of a degree of control not commonly achieved even by cultivated people: "But I say unto you, That ye resist not evil; but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek turn to him the other also." (Matt. 5:39). This doctrine works because it helps us to keep cool while we think out a better way to meet the situation. Goodenough, at Minnesota, has found some extremely interesting facts about how the incidence of anger outbursts varies with age and what conditions contribute to outbursts. She found that a peak in the number of outbursts occurs for children about one and a half years old. There is a rather sharp decrease in the number of outbursts for children up until about five years. Other studies have shown that the tendency toward outbursts decreases even through college into adult life. Does this mean that we get better natured as we grow older? Not necessarily. It means that we learn to better control ourselves in anger as we grow older, that we probably meet fewer frustrations because we understand our world better, and that we have better insight into how to get around frustrations when they do occur. The outburst is a symptom of failure to control a situation as well as we should like. As we grow in judgment and experience, our control of situations is better. The infant under one year is protected from many frustrations because most of its needs are satisfied by those taking care of it. Its world is relatively restricted and simple. By learning to walk, the gates of a vastly extensive and new world are thrown open. The toddler doesn't yet know that stoves are hot, that pulling the table cloth brings an avalanche of dishes clattering to the floor—with a spanking in close succession, and that the toys of others cannot be appropriated willy-nilly from playmates without opposition. He is met at every new exploration with a storm of "don'ts."" The number of frustrations he must undergo during his first two years of walking is appalling when we stop to count them up. All of these frustrations which must be undergone before the child acquires real insight into how to control more efficiently the physical and particularly the social world is bound to precipitate outbursts in the most normal children. The child learns by an unfortunate accident, however, that when he throws a tantrum his mother, or some other solicitous onlooker, rushes to the rescue. Many children learn long before they leave the cradle that a mother's mast vulnerable spot is her alert ear for a baby's cry. Fondling at every cry 'stamps in" crying as a means of gaining attention and satisfying wants. When the toddler becomes frustrated, and not yet being very fluent in the use of any other language, he wails and his problem is solved for him. Later on he may find it necessary to wail louder and longer and stamp his feet and even throw things in order to get his way. The more firmly his mother resolves not to give in, the more violent the performance becomes, until in this endurance test the child wins and the mother finally has pity on her jaded nerves. This rewards the whole performance so that she must yield next time also. SOMETIMES punishment of the child vents the mother's irritation, but it doesn't correct the tantrum LESSON DEPARTMENT 65 and even may contribute to negativism. Mayer, at Stanford, has found that children become negativistic (refuse to do what is asked of them, saying "I won't" or simply '"no") as a normal part of development at between two and four and one-half years, with the greatest frequency of negativistic responses at about three years. The frequent frustrations at this period may account for this fact. The sensible attitude to assume is that outbursts and negativism are likely to occur during these years, but that with proper training they should be almost completely corrected by school age. The extremely irascible child is usually a self-centered child, a pampered child, a child whose mother has never really understood his point of view. One investigation has shown that children who were given their own way in the home had tantrums twice as often as those who were not. Illness is frequently a contributing cause of tantrums. Stratton found that college students who had undergone the most illnesses burst into anger the most often. This tendency was particularly related to the number of illnesses suffered before six years of age. A mother is likely to be more attentive to the demands of an ill child than one in good health, which multiplies for the child who has many illnesses, his chances of learning that tantrums "pay." Hunger and fatigue also precipitate outbursts. Goodenough found that the number of outbursts during the hour before the noon meal was about twice the number during the hour just after. Every wise mother, and daughter, knows that her requests fall more kindly on father's ears after dinner than just before. A person who is tired or who has missed his sleep is also more irritable than usual and therefore more likely to "explode." Tantrums are also frequently the outcome of too much regulation and not enough free opportunity to explore to heart's content. Regulation, if it does not allow for an adequate degree of freedom during play, is bound to breed bad temper in the child. The engrossing pursuits of the child should not be interfered with until after due notice has been given, and then only for meals, toilet, rest, and when actual injury to the child or property is probable, or the rights of others are seriously interfered with. For the correction of tantrums, the following additional suggestions are offered. Try always to understand the nature of the child's frustrations and to guide him to gain insight into getting around them. Give only the minimum of assistance for him to see his own way out. Don't respond to his angry outbursts by losing your own temper—to do so indicates lack of insight on your part. Serenity, calm, patience, and good humor are extremely contagious. The peace that comes from deep faith in the Gospel and devotion to the great cause of parenthood should permeate every Latter-day Saint home, and this peace is a great step toward cultivating good dispositions in the children. When a tantrum is thrown, the best method is indifference—ignore it. But by all means don't give in even if the child holds his breath. (Breath holding is not dangerous ordinarily.) Don't let the tantrum make the child the center of attention of all those in the home. Tantrums are more frequent in homes where there are more adults—to pay attention, to give in, and to buy peace with bribes. Don't give corporal 66 punishment. If simply ignoring the "scene" doesn't seem appropriate, don't stop to coax; but simply carry the child to his room and leave him there alone until he has it out with himself. Tell him only that he may come out when he can behave himself. PLAY with other children multiplies frustrations, but there is probably no better way to teach the child respect for the rights of others. Careful guidance during play by a thoughtful parent can be of great assistance in helping the child to gain insight into how to get along socially; the meddling and interference of a thoughtless parent will promote more tantrums than it will cure. A routine carefully thought out and rigidly enforced is essential for avoidance of tantrums. Irregularity in toilet habits, hours of eating and rest, and inconsistency in treatment of misbehavior are serious handicaps to the little tot who is trying hard to learn "what it is all about.' Violent corporal punishment on one occasion and complete indifference to the same act on another leaves the child confused as to where he stands on anything. One treatment by the mother and another by the father or others in the home is equally vicious. Decide upon a sensible routine and plan for training the child, and then strictly adhere to it. This is the kindest treatment for the child after all, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the true way to "suffer the little children, and forbid them not, to come unto me." Through all correcting of anger impulses in children, ability to catch the child's point of view and provision for social and acceptable outlets for his activity is of paramount importance. The child should be given sufficient time and materials to do his own experimenting as far as possible.
Problems for Discussion
1. What do you consider to be the legitimate uses of anger? Discuss Mark 11:15-18.
2. Why are anger outbursts ordinarily of little value for modern adults? Point out the different uses served by anger in animals compared with anger as used by modern men.
3. Of what use is the tantrum to the child? How are tantrums and the early use of language by the child similar?
4. Enumerate some of the principal contributing causes of tantrums or outbursts. What can you do in your home to decrease the number of these contributing causes?
5. Assuming tantrums have been acquired by your children, outline a program for overcoming them.
6. Why are there so many frustrations during the early years of walking? What can you suggest by way of reducing the number of frustrations?
A WORD TO MOTHERS
The following story is one of many that might be told. We quote from a letter received at the office of the General Board of Primary Association:
"A few days before Christmas the Postman stopped at our door and handed Mary a strange magazine. It was entitled 'The Children's Friend' and said 'A Merry Christmas from W.'
"Then the children and I sat down and went through the magazine very carefully. We found an endless number of most interesting things. There were poems and pictures and things to make and the best stories, and such tales of Rollicky-Roy!
"I discovered that this magazine was not only a children's magazine, but it also had interesting articles for the children's parents, articles to help me in the rearing of my family, suggestions to help me provide interesting and happy times for our home afternoons and evenings. I found that the Officers' Department was also helpful with its teacher training, its music and play and various other items.
"The very best thing about the Friend was that it would come to us each month and bring us new stories and new things for the children to do. This it has continued to do month after month.
"One month our magazine failed to arrive at the usual time. Billy, Mary, and Jane were so worried. Why did it not come? What were they to do? How did the continued story end this time? What interesting thing was Rollicky Roy doing? These and many other questions made me realize how valuable The Children's Friend was to my children.
"Two days of anxious watching went by. We had all decided to inquire into the cause of the delay when much to our delight, on the third day, the Postman delivered the long looked for magazine. The children could hardly wait to open it. The contents were utterly devoured by three pairs of eager eyes, then Billy, the eldest read aloud the stories they had waited so anxiously to hear."
A year passed. The Children's Friend not only brought the M........ Family useful ways to spend their leisure hours, it not only made the children happy each month with its wealth of interesting material, but it also brought to them the greatest thing on earth: The Gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Through this magazine this family learned of the organization called the Primary Association which is held each week throughout the Church. These children have attended the Primary each week with their little friends. Here they have become so interested in the Primary work that they now want to become Latter-day Saints. Their mother is going to let them be baptized. They say they can never again be without their magazine, The Children's Friend.
THE CHILDREN'S FRIEND IS THE ONLY MAGAZINE FOR CHILDREN PUBLISHED BY THE CHURCH. YOU CANNOT AFFORD TO BE WITHOUT IT IN YOUR HOME. GIVE IT TO YOUR CHILDREN OR GRANDCHILDREN AS A CHRISTMAS, NEW YEARS, OR BIRTHDAY GIFT.
"FOUR WAYS BETTER"
BE SURE YOU RECEIVE THE ONE AND ONLY GENUINE UTAH
KNIGHT'S SPRING CANYON COAL
1—Starts Quicker. 2—Burns Longer. 3—Less Soot. 4—Less Ash
"ASK YOUR DEALER"
Have you heard about this new plan for the...
Economical Use of Electricity
All household tasks can now be done cheaper than ever before. Come into our store and ask us how you can make use of the plan.
Utah Power & Light Co.
YEAR-ROUND HEADQUARTERS for • Books • Greeting cards • Teaching aids • Gifts • Church literature
DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
For half a century the L. D. S. Business College has helped young men and women of the West to "find themselves." The booklet, "Planning Your Future," will explain how we do it. Write for a copy today.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah
The Deseret News Press
29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah
Until March 15 make reservations at least three weeks before you plan to register.
Magazine
Spinning the Threads of Your Life
WITH the passing of each year the pattern of your life comes nearer and nearer to completion. What is already woven, you cannot change. But you can determine the remainder of the pattern.
Inextricably woven in with your future is that of your family. For your future and theirs an adequate life insurance program is essential for protection and for security in your old age.
There is no better time than the New Year to launch an insurance program. And there is no better company than the Beneficial.
Invite your local Beneficial agent to help you plan a life insurance program in this strong home company.
If It's A Beneficial Policy It's The Best Insurance You Can Buy
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Home Office—BENEFICIAL LIFE BLDG., SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT
HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS From Factory To You—We Solicit Your Mail Orders
No. 88. Lt. Weight Men's and Ladies' New Style...$0.85 No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style Only...$1.10 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back...$1.45 No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style, Double Back...$1.50 No. 86. Extra Fine Rayon and Double Combed Yarn. Ladies' New Style Only...$1.25 No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles...$0.85
We Charge 10% Extra For Extra Sizes. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. We Mark Garments For 10c.
No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style...$0.85 No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Rayon, Men's and Ladies' New Style Only...$1.10 No. 88. Extra Fine Silk-Rayon Double Combed Yarn. Better Than Part Wool. This Comes in Winter Weight Men's New Style...$1.65
Please Specify When Ordering Your Bust, Trunk and Length, Whether New or Old Style, and if Men's or Ladies'.
THIS IS ALSO THE PLACE TO OUTFIT THE MISSIONARY WITH ONE OF THOSE FAMOUS RAMBOUILLETTE SUITS
This is one of our Specials Our Famous Rambouillette $18.75 Single or Double Breast. Extra Pants, $4.00
WE HAVE A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF HEAVY WORSTEDS AT $21.75 Extra Pants, $4.00
WE ALWAYS GIVE SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO THE MISSIONARY
14 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
SAFETY your investment of an Association
PLENTY OF MONEY TO LOAN AT ATTRACTIVE RATES AND LONG TERMS
Deseret Federal Savings & Loan Ass'n. 44 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Free Booklet on Request Explaining Insured Shares
NEPHI L. MORRIS, President J. E. KJAR, Secretary
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Buy GALLON FRUITS
Many housewives' supply of home canned fruit is getting low. We have a full stock from a fortunate purchase of No. 10 size (near gallon). These are excellent fruits for pies, concentrating for jams as sweetened for table use.
O. P. SKAGGS FOOD System STORES "A Surety of Purity"
Service Above All
SALT LAKE PROVO OGDEN PRICE PAYSON MANTI
PALACE Market 277 1st South at 3rd East—17th South at 5th East South Temple at 2nd East
We Give and Redeem Discount Stamps.
"We Feature" Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXIV FEBRUARY, 1937 No. 2
CONTENTS
An Old Valentine.........................................Grace C. Jacobsen 67 Frontispiece............................................Alonzo A. Hinckley 68 Alonzo A. Hinckley—The Man...........................Pres. David O. McKay 69 Window Garden........................................Vesta Pierce Crawford 70 National Council of Women............................Pres. Louise Y. Robison 71 A Pioneer Incident.........................................Julia Wilson 72 On the Trails of the Old Kaibab...........................Elsie C. Carroll 73 Sarah Carmichael—Patriot Poet...........................Mary Maurine Root 77 The Greatest Art...........................................Clara Perman 80 Valentine Day's Message.....................................Ann Jarvis 84 Little Moments of Eternity.............................Lella Marler Hoggan 85 The Priceless Gift......................................Viola Stone Card 88 Relief Society Playlet on the New Testament............Alberta Stake Board 89 How Mother Does It....................................Bergeta Williams 91 A Secret Something Whispers.............................Isaac C. Ball 94 The Longest Journey....................................Joseph L. Blaine 96 Happenings..........................................Annie Wells Cannon 104 Notes from the Field..................................Julia A. F. Lund 105 Notes to the Field..........................................108 and 131 Editorials: Abraham Lincoln.................................................110 Control of Cancer...............................................112 Susan B. Anthony................................................113 New Books......................................................113 Lincoln Prayer............................................Christie Lund 114 Lesson Department..................................................115 Magazine Drive....................................................132 Recipes...........................Extension Division University of Idaho 133
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
American Beauty
Easiest in the World on Clothes
The Lowest Priced, Quality Washer on the Market—Easy Touch Safety Wringer
BUY NOW AND SAVE
GRANITE FURNITURE CO. 1050 East 21st South
See the Beautifully New Spring Styles $2.95 to $5.95
WHIPPLE'S SLIPPER SHOPPE
TEMPLE BRAND L. D. S. GARMENTS
36 years experience insures quality and gives you underwear at reasonable prices.
REMEMBER—We pay Postage to any place in the United States
We are the Manufacturers of ALL APPROVED L. D. S. GARMENTS
No. Regular Style For Women No. For Men 703 Flat Weave Spring Needle......................... $0.98 620 Medium Lt. Wt. Double Back........ $0.98 719 Ribbed Med. Light Wt. Cotton.................... 1.10 610 Light Weight Spring Needle....... 1.10 762 Non-Run Rayon................................. 1.15 602 Extra Fine Quality Lisle.......... 1.25 734 Non-Run Super Bemberg Silk.................... 1.25 614 Medium Weight Extra Quality....... 1.25 760 Silk and Wool Medium Weight................... 1.95 634 Non-Run Super Bemberg Silk....... 1.35 792 Fine Quality Cotton Lisle..................... 1.25 660 Silk and Wool Medium Weight...... 1.95 664 Med. Heavy Wt. Cot. Dbl. Back.... 1.50
Garments Marked Upon Request. 10c Per Pair Extra 20% Extra Charge for Sizes Over 48
Do not fail to specify New or Old Style and if for Man or Woman. Also state if long or short sleeves, short or long legs are wanted. Give accurate Bust Measurements, Height and Weight.
Samples Sent Upon Request.
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah—OLDEST KNITTING STORE IN UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
To Market, To Market--
To buy Fisher's Better Breads and Cakes, of course, thus assuring for her table the best in bakery foods. Fisher's Vitamin D Bread is your best and most economical food.
Products of
AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY The Big Home-Owned Bakery
FREE! GARDEN BOOK NOW READY
This book is brimful of concise, dependable information vital to the planting success of every Home Owner, Orchardist, Gardener or Farmer. It contains 112 pages beautifully illustrated in natural color.
WRITE FOR YOUR COPY TODAY
Porter-Walton Co. Seed and Nursery Specialists SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Order Blue Blaze COAL AND BE SURE YOU GET WHAT YOU ORDER
Blue Blaze Coal Co. 1111 Walker Bank Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
Relief Society Members
The Deseret Book Company is your headquarters for books and supplies.
Social Welfare Books Literary Lessons
We have all the necessary literature for your studies.
The DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
An Old Valentine
By Grace C. Jacobsen
It lay among some trinkets, in an old forgotten chest, A tiny faded valentine, all in order with the rest. The sender's name had disappeared, the ribbon bows were frayed, And o'er their tattered beauty a bunch of roses strayed.
A cupid's bow was broken off, a bleeding heart was torn, A blue forget-me-not was lost, the lacy edge was worn. The violets round a girlish form still lingered in their place Her lover standing at her side, held her in a fond embrace.
"I love you, dearest," ran the lines, so dim I scarce could see, But their sweetly flowing cadence, meant all the world to me. In fancy I am winging back across the hurried years, And live again one happy hour, amid my falling tears.
Yes, time has marred its beauty, and robbed it of its art, But its ardent declaration, reigns triumphant in my heart. O! Little time-worn Valentine, sent forth at love's request, I shall keep you always, within my treasure chest.
The Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XXIV FEBRUARY, 1937 No. 2
Alonzo A. Hinckley—The Man
By President David O. McKay
WHEN we pay tribute to Alonzo A. Hinckley as a man we need not qualify or limit what we say. Everyone who knows him will bear witness that in describing President Hinckley's uprightness, superlatives may be used without exaggeration. His character is like a clear spring that flows from the rock uncontaminated. If I speak of him as I knew him I can use only those terms which apply to a superior man. It was my privilege and pleasure to accompany President Hinckley through the California Mission when he was first appointed to succeed President Joseph L. McMurrin as President of that Mission. Our continued close association gave me a clearer insight into his outstanding qualities as a leader of men. I had opportunity to observe, also, how ideally happy he was in his congenial home life. If I had been asked at that time to name his most outstanding virtue, I would have said it was an abiding faith in God, and in the efficacy of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. This was evident not only from what he said, and from the testimonies he bore to audiences we met, but by what he constantly radiated in his daily conversations and associations. His keen sense of humor was equally outstanding, but I would say it was more reserved than brilliant, more suggestive than poignant, as was illustrated in his answer to an Eastern lady who on one occasion asked, "Are all your children boys, Mr. Hinckley?" "All but ten" was the prompt but genial reply.
Inheritance, environment, and self-effort are three important factors that shape and make men's lives. All three of these influences combined favorably in molding President Hinckley's character.
HIS was a noble heritage. His father could have said to his sons, and in different words undoubtedly did say to them, what we find in David Livingston's legacy: "My lads, I have looked back through our history as far as I could find it, and I have never found a dishonest man in all the line. I want you to understand that you inherit good blood; you have no excuse for doing wrong. My lads, be honest." President Hinckley has added luster to his worthy ancestry.
PRESIDENT HINCKLEY'S environment from boyhood to manhood kept him close to nature and to his fellowmen. His home
70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
training and companionship in youth taught him early in life the value of self-control as contrasted with looseness and self-indulgence. On the ranch in the bright sunshine, or at night as he lay under the glittering stars, he learned from observation and practical experience that the law of compensation and the law of retribution are as constant as the law of gravitation, and that cause and effect are continuously operative. His keen observation among men taught him that sin and sorrow are inseparable, as also are virtue and happiness. Consequently by self-effort he devoted his youth and early manhood to the cultivation of those cardinal virtues which contribute to the fullest life. He cherished honor as he prized life itself. He was courageous, temperate, loyal and reverent—qualities which contribute to nobility of soul.
Paraphrasing a tribute once paid to George Washington, we can say truly President Hinckley was sound at heart, and "speaking ever from the level of his character, and always ready to substantiate opinions with deeds; a man without any morbid egotism or pretension or extravagance; simple, modest, dignified, incorruptible; never giving advice which events did not endorse as wise, never lacking fortitude to bear calamities which resulted from his advice being overruled."
Men of such sterling worth are the veritable bulwarks of society. The world is better for their having lived, and poorer when they are taken from it.
IN the home President Hinckley was respected and beloved as a devoted husband and honored father. In the community he was looked upon as a practical, progressive builder. In his friendships, he was true and loyal. As an ambassador of truth, and as an Apostle of the Lord, he was unwavering in his testimony of the living Christ.
"His life was gentle, and the elements So mixed in him, that Nature might stand up And say to all the world, 'This was a man!'"
WINDOW GARDEN
By Vesta Pierce Crawford
Outside the winds of winter blow And blizzards gild the window pane, Yet here where yellow flowers grow, The colored summer comes again.
Oh narrow is the garden row, But wide and long enough to hold This primrose fringe of petaled glow And daffodils of bended gold.
Here now the red geraniums stand, Defiant of the outer gloom, And who can see the frozen land Beyond this flame of window bloom!
National Council of Women
By President Louise Y. Robison
THE officers of the National Council of Women are to be congratulated upon the choice of topics programmed for the Forum, which was held under their auspices in New York City, December 2-3, 1936. The theme: "A 1937 Forecast for Better Living—based upon The Contribution of Women in American Life." Our gracious President, Mrs. Ruth Haller Ottaway, presided, and in her keynote address, made the following prophetic statement: "The concerted action of the women of the United States and the world is both possible and probable. The National Council, without regimentation, by only presenting for consideration to national organizations the same project at the same time, can develop a climate of opinion, a crystallization of conviction, which will change the entire national and international life."
Every subject discussed was vital and of deep interest to women. It placed home-making among the professions, and emphasized the need for better preparation for parenthood. Dr. Valeria H. Parker, discussing this subject said, "The greatest adventure in life is for a man and a woman to live together happily and helpfully, and rear a wholesome family."
Mr. Ralph Barsodi advanced the theory that women in the home contribute the sum of $36,000,000,000.00 annually through the service they render and the articles they produce. Women who successfully make homes, rear and teach children, have the most important profession.
There was launched a three year educational program for more intelligent spending of our 1937 dollar, using the slogan, "Know what you want, Buy what you ask for." We shall hear more of this helpful Consumer's program.
An appeal was made for women to promote an educational campaign against cancer, which, it was claimed, was the cause of one hundred fifty thousand deaths annually.
The effect of radio and moving pictures on children and young people, was stressed. Eighty-five million people attend motion pictures weekly, twenty-one million of this number are under eighteen years of age. Women were urged to cooperate in having only helpful programs. It is estimated that ninety million people listened to high grade music during six months. Producers of radio and motion picture programs were in attendance and pledged support of their companies in any endeavor to elevate their production.
The delightful talks on music, books and art will long be remembered. Leon Dabo said, "Art is not a picture. Art is something one feels—that love of the beautiful—that love of life—expressing the something in one's heart."
Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, chairman of the Committee on the Economic Status of Women, urged the women in the home to assume some of the responsibility for seeing that women who work for a living get decent wages.
DR. WILLIAM J. COX made an urgent appeal for woman's influence in curtailing automobile acci-
72 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
dents. After giving appalling statistics he said, "When you see a group of six or seven children, try to realize that one out of this number will be killed or maimed for life unless something is done to check the terrible slaughter. Education of public is needed, not in better driving, but popularizing the enforcement of laws. In Rhode Island there was a 20% decrease of deaths, although travel increased 100%."
Speaking on the Public Health program, Dr. Haven Emerson summed up the sentiment of the Forum when he said: "We cannot achieve any progress by authority or law. People cannot be forced. We must patiently and constantly stress education."
The closing session was a World Peace dinner, at which a number of notable people spoke. We were charmed with Gladys Swarthout, Metropolitan Opera and motion picture star. There were delightful folk songs, and a stirring address on Peace by Estelle M. Sternberger. It was the end of two perfect days. From the time Mr. Augustus Zanzig opened the first session with the audience singing folk songs, until good-byes were said to new and old friends, every moment was inspirational and educational.
A Pioneer Incident
By Julia Wilson
THE following is one of the many inspiring incidents told by the early pioneers. The following is rather unusual.
It was in the early eighties when settlements had been made practically all over the state of Utah. My husband and his father owned and operated a saw mill near the head of the Sevier River. They also farmed the land surrounding the mill. This year crops were doing well and prospects were good for another year's supply of flour and vegetables.
It was in August that this particular hail storm came and it was a real one. If you want to know how we felt, just imagine yourself placed in our position. Crops were not very sure on account of frost and if anything happened to destroy them entirely, it meant people would go hungry or bring supplies from "up north" which was very expensive.
We could see the storm in the distance coming from the north and I shall never forget the roar and rumble as it came nearer. The men were working in the mill which was near the house and my father-in-law came out and stood watching the storm. We never knew just what happened but presently he called us out to see and told us that the storm would not damage our crops. As we watched we discovered it had reached only up to the north fence and then began to let up. There was a few hail stones in the lower field and a dozen or two at the mill—just enough to show us what might have been.
After dinner father hitched up and took us down to see the result of the storm. We found hailstones an inch or more in diameter and they were piled two feet high in places against the fence where the flood had washed them down. Our hearts were full of gratitude that our crop had been saved.
On the Trails of the Old Kaibab
By Elsie C. Carroll
CHAPTER IX
HELEN had a sense of deflation. All the exhilaration of a half hour ago had been killed by the inexplicable inference in Tess' look. She still sat on Maje, undecided what to do. She saw Steve walk around to the pens, and knew he had gone to get ready for his "bronco-busting" exhibition. She shuddered. She didn't want to see it. She wanted to get away—and to cry over something she couldn't explain.
Turning Maje to the south she rode, unobserved, to the edge of the forest. Not caring where she went, she gave the horse the reins. Maje chose a trail they had been on before. It wound through a dense growth of aspen trees to a small clearing where there had once been a cabin and a corral. Steve had told her this was one of Uncle Jim Owen's old camping grounds. She rode directly to the tiny spring where Steve had brought her after her roping practice one day. Now she recalled each detail of that afternoon. He had produced sandwiches and chocolate bars from his saddlebag, and they had sat on the grass by the spring. They had knelt to drink from the cold trickle that came from a tiny crevice in the rocks. She recalled just how Steve had looked as he stretched himself full length under the trees. An unruly lock of dark hair had tumbled over his forehead. As on other occasions she had felt an impulse to pat it back into place.
Suddenly the truth burst upon her. She was in love with Steve Heyden! Her face burned with the knowledge. She had left George's home not three months ago in anger and humiliation because George had allowed his affections to wander. It was incredible that in so short a time her hurt had healed and she could find her pulses quickening at the thought of another man.
She tied Maje to an aspen tree and slaked her thirst at the spring. Then she sat where she had sat that other day near Steve and stared helplessly up at the blue sky. She must face this new creature which was herself and try to understand what could have happened. She must decide what was to be done.
There were two things, she told herself, which should have made it impossible for this to happen. First, the possibility that Steve Heyden's father had murdered her father. Second, the fact that she was George Latimer's wife. What a paradox! She must conquer this strange new emotion. But even as she made the resolution, she was recalling Steve's every word, every gesture since their first meeting, and wondering if he loved her. The knowledge that Bernice Hawley loved him and that Tess Morley desired him, aroused in Helen the primitive impulse toward possession. She found herself arguing that Steve was not responsible for actions of his father. Even if his father had been a murderer, such sins should not be visited upon innocent children. Such a truth would be as horrifying to Steve as to herself. And as for the other horn of her dilemma, she didn't belong to George now. He himself had broken the bond between them. In the experience of this new emotion, she knew that she never had really loved George. There had been congeni-
74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ality—infatuation perhaps—and the influence of Aunt Nettie's approval. But all that—she now realized—was not love.
Steve did not love Bernice Hawley, but what of Tess Morley? Would he fall under her spell? She recalled Steve's face while Tess was twirling her lariat. Other men were victims of her lure; why not Steve Heyden? His foster mother lived with Tess. Doubtless he was there often. He had gone there for Lon. Was he but one of Tess' many? The thought was maddening. If that were true, she could not remain on the mountain. Yet where could she go? Not back to Aunt Nettie and George. She could never return to her old life. The West had come to mean peace to her, and—home. No matter which way her thoughts turned, she faced a wall.
A CRASHING noise on the trail beyond the spring startled her. She sprang to her feet as a horseman rode into the clearing. It was Lon Dean. His horse was flecked with foam. Its nostrils were oozing blood. At sight of her Lon deliberated for a moment. Then he recognized Maje and he rode to her.
"You go find Steve," he commanded. "Tell him come quick. Steers gone. Tell him bring officers. Tell him I got clue. Tell him come to Jim's cave." He sat waiting for her to act. "Hurry. Tell him bring plenty help."
Comprehending but vaguely the significance of her instructions, but impelled by Lon's urgent manner, she mounted her horse and hurried on her strange errand. The need of delivering Lon's message as soon as possible, drove all else from her mind. By the time she emerged from the forest, it was growing dusk. She urged Maje to a run as she came into Pleasant Valley. The rodeo would be over. Would Steve be with the crowd over at Tess Morley's?
As she neared the hotel, she could see long lines of cars driving toward the outer end of the valley from the rodeo grounds. That last scheduled event introduced by Steve's exhibition—how had it ended? Steve was to ride Demon, the meanest horse on the mountain. Then, each in turn, the contestants who had signed for the event, were to try to ride him. She was glad she had not stayed to watch. She urged Maje on. Even now it was so late perhaps any effort to follow Lon's clue would be futile. She drew near the flat. What a large group of people were in front of the hotel. Something had happened. Her heart sank. She rode to the rear of the building and tied Maje to a tree. She entered the hotel through a side door and spoke to a bell-boy.
"Will you please go out there and ask Steve Heyden to come in here for a moment?"
He stared at her. "Steve? Didn't you know it was Steve who got hurt?—maybe killed in the last event?"
Helen felt her knees giving way. She slid into a chair. "No! No! Where is he?"
"They took him out to the Lodge. The doctor said he might have to operate."
For a moment she closed her eyes, then she asked, "Is Uncle Billy Crossley here?"
"He went to help take Steve. It was sure a tough accident and busted up the rodeo. Too bad it was Steve that had to get it."
ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB 75
She groped toward the door. In a moment she was on Maje again headed toward Bright Angel Point. She had forgotten about Lon Dean out in the gathering night waiting for help. She was conscious of only one thing—she must see Steve and make sure he was not—going to die.
When Helen neared Bright Angel Point she asked herself what she was going to do when she reached the Lodge. She had but one clear purpose. That was to find out for herself how seriously Steve was hurt. What if he were dead? No! God wouldn't be so cruel! It was all a hopeless tangle. But—there was a sweetness even in her pain.
She reached the Lodge and left Maje at a hitching post. "I came to inquire about Steve Heyden," she told the bell-boy. "He was injured at the V. T. Rodeo this afternoon. Can you tell me how he is?"
Then she saw Bernice Hawley coming toward her. "I'll see if Dr. Grosbeck can come," the boy said, and left.
The two girls together, Bernice's face was swollen and stained with weeping. Helen reached for her hands, but Bernice drew back, and burst into a hysterical tirade.
"You lied to me. You said you were married. Dr. Grosbeck told me last night that you are separated from your husband. Why can't you let Steve alone? Aren't there other men just as good for all you and Tess Morley want of them?"
With an effort Helen controlled herself. Bernice was nothing but a child, and she was suffering. "You mustn't talk like that, Bernice dear. You know the things you are trying to think of me are not true. Steve is my friend, just as he is yours. How is he?"
"I hate you. Why did you have to come out here and spoil everything? I hate you."
Helen forced calmness into her own voice. "You mustn't make a foolish scene here, Bernice. Those people over there can hear you."
"I don't care who hears. I love him and I could have got him if women like you and Tess Morley had stayed where you belong. I hate you both."
The girl rushed through the door to the balcony overlooking the canyon. The bell-boy returned. "Dr. Grosbeck is still busy."
"Do you know how Mr. Heyden is?"
"I think they found that he isn't hurt as bad as they thought at first."
"Thank you. Is Mr. Crossley here?"
"Uncle Billy? He's coming right there."
The old scout appeared through a swinging door and Helen hastened to meet him. "How is he, Uncle Billy? Tell me what happened."
He took her hands and led her to a seat. "I was glad you wasn't there. It was that vicious horse—Demon. We never should have let Steve do it. The beast threw him against the gate post and then tried to paw him to death. It looked like he would have him killed before we could do anything. Then Wood run for a gun and shot the animal."
"But how is Steve? He's not going to die!"
"The doctor thinks he'll be all right if there ain't no internal injuries. It seems like a miracle after seeing what happened." Helen's hands were clenched. Uncle Billy watched her face. "Where was you when it happened?"
Now she remembered about Lon. "Uncle Billy, Steve's steers are
76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
gone, but Lon Dean says he has a clue."
"Lon? Can he remember what's happened? Where did you see him? You don't mean the steers in the south pasture that we've been watching?"
As calmly as she could, Helen told him all she knew. "If Lon has found out the truth," he was very excited, "it may mean everything to you and Steve both. I must go and get some help—and find Lon."
"Do you want to take Maje? I can find a chance to get back to the Park tomorrow."
"Maybe that will be best, if you'd like to stay." He looked at her understandingly. "I come out in the doctor's car." He held out his hand. "Don't look so frightened." He patted her arm. "Steve's going to be all right—and maybe everything else is too."
He'd read her secret. After he'd gone Helen arranged for a room. She'd ask Bernice to share it with her. But she was told that Bernice had gone back to the Park with Pete Rockwood. Helen left word for the bell-boy to call her as soon as Dr. Grosbeck was free. Then she went to her room and tried to relax. She took off her riding clothes, had a hot bath, and lay down to try to compose herself. But she could not remain quiet. She put on her clothes and sat before the window overlooking the canyon. What was she going to do? Did Steve love her? He'd been frightened that day Maje stumbled into the gopher hole and she had been knocked senseless. Another day she'd got something in her eye as they were riding and when he was trying to remove it by turning the eyelid back as she directed, his hands had trembled. When she'd caught her breath with pain as the speck was removed, he'd put his hands on her shoulders for a moment like a caress, then had turned quickly away and mounted his horse. There were other such trifling incidents, but they probably meant nothing. It was true what she'd told Bernice—Steve wasn't the kind of man who would permit himself to fall in love with another man's wife.
THERE was a tap at her door. "Dr. Grosbeck will see you in the lobby," the boy told her.
Fred met her coldly. "Helen, I can't understand you. You're in love with Steve Heyden. I wouldn't have needed to be told: Your face betrays you. Does George have any idea of this real reason for your leaving him?"
"Oh, Fred, you are all wrong. I never saw Steve Heyden before I came here this summer. And I didn't know until this afternoon that I love him. You see, we have business interests that throw us together. His father and mine were partners in the cattle business out here years ago. Perhaps you didn't know that my father belonged to this country. That was why I came here instead of going someplace else when I had to get away."
He was still perplexed. "Surely you don't think I'm the kind of creature Bernice Hawley has got it into her head that I am."
He laughed and took her hands. "Of course not. I've known you too long for that. And of course I can understand that Bernice is just a jealous kid infatuated by an older man and that she isn't responsible for all she imagines."
"Thanks, Fred. And now will you tell me how he is?"
"We thought at first it was very serious. But as far as I can find
ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB 77
he has nothing but a few superficial injuries—a rather painful gash on his head and some nasty bruises where his body struck the gate. But if nothing of an internal nature develops, after he recovers from the shock, he'll soon be all right. By the way that Morley woman is still hovering around his door. What's her claim?"
Helen bit her lip. "I don't know."
"You haven't had dinner and neither have I." Fred said. "It's after regular hours, but I'm on good terms with the kitchen staff; let's go foraging."
(To be continued)
Sarah Carmichael—Patriot Poet
By Mary Maurine Root
SEVENTY-FIVE years ago there lived in Salt Lake City a young woman who had a heart and mind snapping with life. Activity, we all know, can be of a mental as well as an external nature. Twinkling feet, flying hands and dancing tongues accompany the vivacity of physical responsiveness, but one can be perhaps more truly living whose body is quiescent, but whose spirit is throbbing with ideas and feelings, and who is experiencing vicariously the interests and events of a multitude of physical identities. Sarah Elizabeth Carmichael (later Williamson) lived exuberantly this latter type of existence. Alert to the significance and beauty of the universe, she expressed her reactions in poetry which we recognize today as evincing many of the qualities of genius.
We could analyze her work from a number of standpoints. One of the most striking impressions we can get of her, however, is that of a pure and ardent patriotism. She fostered this patriotism until it became a virile, living part of her. It was a broad, a humanistic patriotism that she had. Sarah Carmichael was no chauvinist. Her attitude was not "right or wrong—my country!" She loved her native land as a mother who loves a child intelligently enough to chastise it for its faults. She identifies herself with its welfare so intimately that its pathological condition keenly perturbed her.
PRECIOUS things must be considered earnestly, Miss Carmichael felt. The profound sincerity of her nature would not tolerate without violent protest the "hollow laugh" and "putrid mirth" that essays to cover up a tragic reality. Evasion of the truth is far from noble, far from intelligent. Her sense of compatible values stimulated a chafing that would not easily subside as she saw the incongruity of the "tremble of ivory keys" side by side with the "passionate throb of drums." "Soulless pageantry" and "mimic strife" are appropriate accompaniments in the duel for a "jewelled glove," perhaps, but they are egregiously out of place in a struggle for a nation's life.
Several of Miss Carmichael's nature poems are tinctured, not only with a local patriotism—born of appreciation for the beauties which she saw and felt around her—but with her concern for the entire nation in its crisis. Her poem, "The Mines," which gives expression to her love for, and pride in, the West, implores that men "bring the nation's wealth to the nation's need"; but in "California" we see this localized patriotism 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE combined with her heartfelt national loyalty. The third verse is most characteristic: "Cheer for the coast where the billows sing! The proudest plume of an eagle wing, The brightest ray of a starry ring— California! Pouring the wealth of her yellow veins, And her ruby gems, on the battle plains— True to the core of her deep, warm breast:- All hail! Thou glorious queen of the West— California!" Isolated as she was Sarah Carmichael eagerly kept in touch with happenings in the eastern and southern states. In "The Flag at Sumpter" we see her typical reaction to one of the initial events of the war. Here is the first verse: "Yes, they have raised the Flag again— Who dares to strike it low? Its light burns into every vein That hath one pulse to glow. It is the same bright Flag that rose Above expression's frown, Our Land's first challenge to its foes— Who dares to strike it down?" The second and third verses of "Our Country" are especially indicative of her enthusiasm: "Our country, ours! The tiniest flower That lays a spangle on thy dust And gleams amid thy turf, is ours! And ours to guard, a sacred trust; But tho' the latest blossom dies, When madness tramples_ thro' bowers, Still shine the stars in thy blue skies; Our country still!—forever ours." thy "Our country! Ours!—thy glory shines Upon the lowliest one whose claim Is but a portion of thy sod— A heart-thrill woven with thy name. But were the shaft of ruin thrown, That flashes where the storm-cloud lowers Thy hour of sorrow is our own! Our country still!—forever ours!" The poems in this article are taken from Poems by Sarah Carmichael, published by Towne and Bacon, San Francisco. Poetry, the sincerest human emotions are woven into one integrated universal appeal. From several points of view, "Abraham Lincoln's Funeral" ranks, I think, as Sarah Carmichael's masterpiece. To be appreciated adequately it must be read in full: Toll! Toll! Toll! Toll! All rivers sea-ward wend. Toll! Toll! Toll! Toll! Weep for the nation's friend. Every home and hall was shrouded. Every thoroughfare was still, Every brow was darkly clouded, Every heart was faint and chill. Oh! The inky drop of poison In our bitter draught of grief! Oh! The sorrow of a nation Mourning for its murdered chief! Toll! Toll! Toll! Toll! Bound is the reaper's sheaf! Toll! Toll! Toll! Toll! All mortal life is brief. Toll! Toll! Toll! Toll! Weep for the nation's chief! Bands of mourning draped the homestead, And the sacred house of prayer; Mourning folds lay black and heavy On true bosoms everywhere. - Yet there were no tear-drops streaming From the deep and solemn eye Of the hour that mutely waited Till the funeral train went by. Oh! There is a woe that crushes All expression with its weight! There is pain that numbs and hushes Feeling's sense, it is so great. Strongest arms were closely folded, Most impassioned lips at rest; Scarcely seemed a heaving motion In the nation's wounded breast; Tears were frozen in their sources, Blushes burned themselves away; Language bled through broken heartthreads; Lips had nothing left to say. Her most sublime patriotic poem, however, emanates much more than patriotism. In it, as in all great SARAH CARMICHAEL—PATRIOT POET 79 Yet there was a marble sorrow In each still face, chiseled deep— Something more than words could utter, Something more than tears could weep. Selfishly the nation mourned him, Mourned its chieftain and its friend; lye no traitor mist could darken, Arm no traitor power could bend; Ifeart that gathered the true pulses Of the Jand's indignant veins, And, with their tempestuous spurnings, Broke the slave's tear-rusted chains. Heart that tied its iron fibres Round the Union's starry band, Martyr's heart, that upward beating, Broke on hate's assassin hand! Toll! Toll! Toll! Toll! Never again—no more— Comes back to earth the life that goes Hence to the Eden shore! ~ Let him rest!—it is not often That his soul hath known repose; Let him rest!—they rest but seldom Whose successes challenge foes. Tle was weary, worn with watching; His life-crown of power hath pressed Oft on temples sadly aching— He was weary, let him rest.... Toll, bells at the Capitol! Bells of the land, toll! Sob out your grief with brazen lungs— Toll! Toll! Toll! SARAH CARMICHAEL'S life had an ironically sad ending. She who had been mentally so alert, so aware of the essence of living, was doomed to exist for over a quarter of a century a victim of mental vacuity. Of all things she had dreaded death most—not death of the body, but spiritual, emotional death brought on by a soul shrivelled up by cowardly and ignoble attitudes. She loved life—noble, pulsating, spiritual life, of which her patriotism was a sample. A stream of consciousness vibrating with gentle, sympathetic, sensitivity: this was her recipe for ideal living. This philosophy she voiced in her poem "The Dead," the last verse of which reads: Weep for the dead; not those who claim Immortal life on the scroll of Fame; Not for the soul that feared but shame; Not for the life that reached its aim; Not for the step that marked in flame Print of a hero's tread. Weep for the dead that breathe and speak; Dead, with a life bloom on the cheek; Dead, for they have no aim to seek; Dead to the core—dead! Dead as the use of a wasted hour; Dead as the dew on a poison flower; Dead as a soul's crime-palsied power— Dead! LIKE all nobly intelligent characters, Miss Carmichael had learned that real living consists of forgetting self in the process of feeling for life pulses outside of one encased identity. She sensed that "He who loseth his life shall find it.' The only poem in which she deigned to deal with such an unimportant subject as herself was in her last one, which she wrote just before her mental collapse. This poem seems to have been a premonition. Beautiful in its weird, yet sweet, solemnity, it reveals so poignantly the bewildered, conflict-stricken Sarah Carmichael Williamson that we find ourselves enmeshed within the grips of a tragic qualm, sublimely conscious of "'tear-drops" that "inward bleed." LAST POEM Down by the river, The dark, flowing river That flows to eternity's sca, Pray to the Giver, To God, the Good Giver, And pray for my venture and me. Cold it is, dark it is, Hushed as my heart it is, Beautiful river sublime; Many ships fail on it, Still as they sail on it— Strange, crooked river of time! Down by the riverside, Wreck-covered riverside, Pray for my venture and me. Pray for us, pray for us, Solemnly say for us, "God guide thee safe to the sea." Strong is the river-tide, Rough is the riverside— Pray for my venture and me! The Greatest Art By Clara Perman NO career is greater than that of home-making; the greatest art is that of raising a wholesome child. Mothers who know that the success and happiness of their children depend upon their social and emotional adjustment have eagerly sought help on this matter commonly known as behavior and discipline. They have joined clubs where authorities on child psychology lecture on progressive methods in child training, have read books and magazines on this subject, and have gone to open forums for the purpose of discussing it. However, so many criticisms of the modern psychological procedures in child training have come to my attention recently that I am led to think that many mothers have become discouraged, bewildered, and have failed in their attempts to master this greatest of arts. An article entitled "We Scapegoat Mothers," which appeared in the May issue of the Household Magazine, "Unspanked Boy Shows How Dad's Fine Idea Works," a news story recently published in the Denver Post, and a paper read in club not long ago entitled, "Junior Among The Quacks," all tended to show that the modern ideas concerning the rearing of children were held in contempt and announced a determination on the part of mothers to do away with these fanatic psychological theories and return to the old tried and true methods. But it is well for them to be reminded that although we may have some 'trouble with our new automobiles, not one of us has traded in for a horse and buggy. POSSIBLY a great deal of this criticism arising from failure on the part of mothers is because of (1) lack of understanding due to a limited psychological background— danger in a little knowledge, (2) an abrupt change from old methods to the new before its deeper significance is sufficiently assimilated, (3) realizing their inability to use the newer methods they are fearful to use any, (4) the modern idea is found too difficult, requires more patience—thinking. One example of a misunderstanding due to limited knowledge of the psychologist's meaning is that of a mother who was told that the personality pattern of the child was absolutely set at the age of five. When later a minister tried to impress upon her the importance of having her children form habits of church attendance she replied, "Oh, what's the use? What they are going to be is all decided when they are five years old." Another mother having heard that parent-domination will kill the initiative and spontaneity of a child mistook the freedom advocated for indulgence, told me for that reason she was doing nothing at all with her youngest one. It was most evident. These are only two proofs that some parents are jumping at hasty conclusions before weighing them in the balance. If they were taking up the art of painting or of playing the piano what would they do about it? The fearful mother is to be pitied. She realizes that she is not well grounded in the later thought. Having listened to talks about repressions THE GREATEST ART 81, fixations, inhibitions, and complexes, she actually cringes before a disciplinary problem in her home. The parents who hold the new methods in contempt after a few trials because it is so much easier and quicker to take the strap down from the wall can certainly not expect to attain any skill whatsoever in the art of raising children, for skill requires thinking, practice, thoroughness. IT is easy to be seen then that psychologists are being denounced because they are trying to make childhood happier, are attempting to emancipate it from the slavery of domination, are working to develop wholesome integrated personalities. Never do they advocate the theory of letting children grow like weeds. Mothers must ever stand ready to advise, suggest, reason with children by showing them the difference between right and wrong. Domination is far less injurious than absolute indulgence. And if a child's personality pattern has a few flaws there is all the more reason why he should have training in the formation of good habits. Naturally we wish to decrease the number of repressions and inhibitions which will undermine his chances for success, but there are many other factors that enter into a child's life pattern before he is twenty-one so there is no child-training expert who would advise turning him out at the age of five—a finished product. PSYCHOLOGY wants to be helpful, not hopeless. Many adults take up the study of mental hygiene late in life and can do much with themselves by way of self-gov- érnment. A parent's panicky fear will harm a child, so while gaining skill in the more progressive methods it is wise to keen in mind that, after all, we adults were raised by the old methods and although we are determined that our children live in a more progressive generation,. We ourselves are not absolute failures. Old methods are assuredly more successful than no method at all. What will be the reaction of a mere baby who constantly hears a tearful, "I am just simply powerless. I can't do a thing with my child!" I AM reminded of my first horseback ride. When my fiery steed (a livery stable nag about twenty years old) tossed his head and looked back at me with a wild eye I almost fell out of the saddle. Then when he passed an alley which led to a barn where he had once been kept he insisted upon going in; at my attempt to turn him he merely circled round and round knowing full well that I was afraid to pull the reins hard enough to make him go the way I wanted him to go. My ride got neither of us any place. It merely amounted to the satisfaction the horse got out of having his own way. Now children know the exact minute the mother is afraid to pull the reins and they lose no time in making use of this new-found pleasure of being able to pull her around by the nose. I have yet to find the psychologist who does not assert that the child must always be made to feel the steadying hand of authority. Some parents seem to have the idea that the only difference between the older and newer methods lies in the procedure—to spank or not to spank. The news item heretofore mentioned, “Unspanked Boy Shows How Father's Fine Idea Works," was nothing more than a caricature. The reporter quotes the father, a noted psychologist, as saying, "Spanking reflects the loss of control by parents. Diplomacy works 82 much better," then while the reporter proceeded to get father's theories concerning child government young son was snatching trinkets from the Christmas tree and smashing them, throwing blocks around the room, and hurling books at the photographer. Now the news story related only that the parents did not spank. Whether they were using other methods of controlling him such as attempting to divert his interests, substitute another activity as an outlet for his emotions, isolating him, or depriving him of other pleasures was not stated. The readers were undoubtedly left with the impression that all psychologists allow their children to rule the home, wreck the furniture, and be a continual menace to the nerves of any one who perchance might visit them. Because they did not immediately snatch the child up and spank him, because they were willing to sacrifice a few Christmas ornaments in order to substitute a more reasonable approach, the reporter was contemptuous. His method would have been. The easier way, no doubt. Although many spankings have been administered by perfectly controlled parents there is really nothing constrictive about that form of punishment. Tt usually builds up only resentment toward the parent and fails to impress any principle toward right conduct. And spanking is not the most cruel punishment as is commonly assumed. I have seen mothers too tender-hearted to spank who resorted to much more barbaric forms of torture. Making a child sit perfectly still for any length of time or tying him to assure the lack of movement is decidedly more injurious to the nervous system. Humiliation in any form is the least constructive. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE positive rather than the negative attitude will aid parents greatly in perfecting this art of raising wholesome children. If all the don'ts were substituted with do's there would be little cause for disciplinary measures. Children must be taught that there are certain laws which if obeyed will bring pleasure and if disobeyed will bring grief. It is wrong to think that we should keep a child in a blissful state of happiness regardless of what he does. He must know that it depends upon his conduct. As soon as he has absorbed and makes use of the knowledge that the most absolute freedom is a matter of the most perfect control his adjustment is assured. That is the freedom which is advocated by the psychologist. He can offer no prescription as a panacea for the social and emotional adjustment of every child. He can give only the underlying principles and mothers must fit them to the individual needs of each child just as she regulates the medicine which a physician prescribes. BEHAVIOR is responding to stimuli. Parents must provide higher motives to prompt conduct. They must have well-formed opinions, definite goals. No child can have respect for parents who are foolish, flighty, not dependable, or who have other interests of more paramount value than caring for his needs. A child must feel support and conifort in the home; this means that parents must be stable, consistent, not stern one day and indulgent the next which will wreck the stability of any child. In a happy home where parents love and respect each other, where children are wanted, and where spiritual values are not slighted we seldom find the mal-adjusted child. The emotionally unstable mother who recently hacked THE GREATEST ART 83 her daughter to death because she begged for pretty clothes is a fitting example of a home where higher values have never been considered. A girl who has been well grounded in principles of right conduct will not beg for pretty clothes from a mother who is living on ten dollars a month from a relief fund. O art can be perfected unless the apprentice is willing to devote much of his time to it. Parents should take time to explain directions which are often puzzling, their reasons which are not always clear, their criticisms of the child's actions which are not always understood. This time taken now will repay them a thousand fold in interest on the principle being deposited, for good habits are much more easily formed in babyhood than later if bad habits must first be broken. (CHILDREN learn self-control through the self-control of their parents. A maxim often given teachers will apply as well to parents— "Until one has learned to control himself he cannot expect to control others." Temper tantrums can, as a rule, be ignored. Let the child see that he accomplishes nothing when he resorts to them which will prove to him eventually that it is a silly indulgence. Avoid emotional tension, attempts to make him angry or jealous so that you may laugh at his outbursts. I have seen children teased by their parents even to the point of telling them untruths so that the children never quite knew when to expect truth and when to expect horseplay. This will never teach them how to face situations frankly which should be one of the first steps in the child's development. A child often becomes defiant, destructive, discourteous, or irritable because he is unhappy. Prolonged unhappiness is dangerous. It is well to ferret out the cause and build up in him a means of averting it. Most of our unhappiness is brought on by ourselves. If a child is laughed at when he voices a serious opinion he will withdraw, not attempt to become independent in solving his problems. Encourage his opinions, respect them as you guide them. In this way you will build up selfreliance. IF the child is taught co-operation in the home he will not find cooperation difficult when his circle in society widens. Freedom? Yes —but always with respect to the rights of others. Noise? Of course. Mothers and teachers are two classes of women who can't have nerves that revolt against noise—and by that I mean a happy healthy noise. Never-the-less in the home there should be no noise when guests come, when some one is asleep or ill. Very small children are amenable to reason and willingly try to do their part. Very few children are not eager for responsibility unless it is killed by over-indulgent parents. All of us must "pay our way" through life. It is well to learn this early. Saving a child from all responsibility, making him despise healthy labor in order that he may have memories of a pleasant childhood may be the means of leaving him with nothing but pleasant memories when he becomes an adult. PERSISTENCE is one of the chief traits to be developed. It has been the means of bringing success to the person who would not rank high on the mental scale. A combining form of intellect and persistence makes up the world's greatest leaders. Although we cannot 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE change the inherited nerve system of any child, parents can do much in the way of encouraging persistent effort. Concentrated interest is often a matter of early habit formation. Sincere and independent effort should always be praised; avoid demanding a too difficult task, either in work or in play, or presenting too many interests at one time as crayolas for drawing, blocks for building, games, and books. He will flit from one to the other and may not complete any one task that he undertakes. Concentration may be helped by having him think out answers to questions. So often a slipshod "I dunno" suffices. And I don't mean tiring children to death with endless questions or making concentration a trial of endurance— it can all be done in a spirit of fun. Let them enter into the conversations and discussions, praise good ideas, it will help them to get the listening habit as well as the thinking habit. They will be gathering a store of information which they can give out, and will also develop a keener interest in what is going on about them. An interesting personality is in the making. Sportsmanship should be taught from the beginning. It is so easy for mother, father, big brother and sister to let baby win in all the games and races, to let him have first turn or a turn any time he pleases. We do this at first, of course, to build up his confidence—then gradually he should learn to take his turn as well as defeat with a smile as we do. Let baby share with parents and big brothers, and sisters just as they share with him. If a child learns to share nobly, to be considerate and courteous in the home there need be no fear that his adjustment to society will be a failure. All the effort and time spent in teaching the child higher values will result in a poise and confidence that mark well a mother's skill in the greatest art. VALENTINE DAY'S MESSAGE By Ann Jarvis If I could play an angel's harp, What hidden rapture I'd betray! I'd pluck the strings; they'd sing and swell And burst into a joyous lay. But I'd much rather play on you, Your heartstrings are my instrument; I like to hear them sing and swell And burst into a compliment! Emcee Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? By Lella Marler Hoggan VALENTINES Take Time for Love "Oh, the world is full of beauty When the heart is full of love.” –Mrs. M.W. Hackleton OLD MAN WINTER goes grumbling through the town, rattling the windows, whistling through the keyhole and tossing chilly wreaths of snow at all the passers-by. But who cares for Old Man Winter when Dan Cupid is here, his quiver full of love-tipped shafts, as he sets out to win the heart of the world. A flutter of lace-trimmed, heart - bound valentines, and a flourish of his magic bow and darts bring lovers young and cld, to a happy surrender. This achieved, the little god of love curls up on a soft cushion before the fire and falls asleep. In some homes the warmth of his gentle presence permeates the whole year, bringing messages of love and kindly deeds to cheer and bless the members of the household; valentines of action, of wholehearted loveliness, that lift a burden of woe from the heart of humanity and sweeten and ennoble life. Cupid's dimpled feet have long since made a path of love that leads straight to happiness. It is easy to find for it is the beaten highway of the heart. There are guide posts, too, to hold one to the course: Understanding Hearts, Trusting Confidences, Abiding Faith, Rose-Colored 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Romances and Family Traditions. The stop signs at irregular intervals, are for little silent prayers and expressions of appreciation. At the wayside inn one may loiter awhile and refresh oneself with stories and rhymes, songs and pictures and bits of laughter. All along the way there are trusting blue skies, broad meadows of contentment, laughing brooks and sweet scented blossoms. The passport to this delightful trip is Loving Service, and at the close of the journey one registers in the substantial book of Achievement. The blazed trail of the little god of love leads to gladness today and tender memories tomorrow, and happy are they who have found it and who keep straight to its course. There are other paths that one may follow, aye, that some do follow; paths crooked and broken, that lead to disappointment and regret, and sometimes to despair. From the crossroads one may look back and see the lost joys and vanished dreams, that a little time and patience could have saved. WHICH road have we chosen to travel through the coming year? Is the little god of love guarding our hearth stone? Will his gentle presence direct us to the highway of happiness? The lovely graces that sweeten life cost so little, and yet bring such rich returns. "To be polite is to do and say The kindest things in the kindest way." Babies thrive on love, half-grown boys hunger for a word of approval, and sweet young girls just have to have a confidant. Loving words lighten father's heavy burden, and little tokens of affection brighten the weary hours of Mother's service. Grandfather and Grandmother rejoice in knowing that they are not outgrown. "And all the world loves a lover." Dr. Frank Crane said, "In love lies our common divinity." THE long ago child shared with his parents in what Tolstoy called "bread labor." He helped to produce the food as well as to prepare it for the table. Busy parents of today spend less time with their children. Are we forgetting that what brings gladness today may be outgrown tomorrow? Shall we awaken some morning to the realization that Betty has outgrown her dolls and doesn't need the blue silk doll dress and the little cradle quilt she has longed for these many years; and that Dick's Indian war bonnet that lies unfinished in the old chest has lost its thrill for a young fellow who is beginning to think about dates with his best girl friend? Are we so busy that we can not find time for the lovely confidences with our children that would bring our lives closely together? Are we going to let some other person take our place in their hearts? Some person whose influence may be less wholesome than ours would have been, had we only claimed our beautiful privilege. What is sadder to recall than the tears of disappointed youth, unless it is the lament of a broken-hearted mother who weeps, when it is too late, that she "Did not kiss more oft and tenderly The little child that brought her only good." "THE happiest mothers never permit themselves to grow old. Helen was sure she was too busy to fix a play dinner for Mollie, besides, there was nothing to fix. But when Grandmother’s LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY 87 twinkling eyes looked into Mollie's little crestfallen face, she grasped the situation at a glance, for Grandmother, as she often remarked, "had not raised eight children for nothing." "Why, Helen dear," she laughed, "you're too grown up. Now persons like Mollie and me, who are in their perpetual childhood, know very well that one apple, two soda crackers and a glass of milk make a perfectly. Sumptuous banquet, especially when one has a pink candle and a green napkin left from the birthday party." WHOLESOME stories, gay little songs and hapnv jokes are as oil on troubled waters. The repetition of rhymes and jingles, each child quoting in turn, is a delightful pastime, and can be carried on right along with one's work. The game of Traveling gives quiet fun and laughter. One person goes on an imaginary journey, and the others guess where he is and what he is doing. "You are at the North Pole in Santa Claus' toy shop, "guesses Nellie."' "You are riding down the Nile on a crocodile's back," suggests Jack. "You are sailing around the world," ventures Ruth. While all the time the traveler is quietly resting under the lid of the Queen's sugar bow]. And so the fun goes on and tired children forget to be fretful. There are many little traditions that promote the happiness of children. What child is not delighted to hang his stocking by the tree on Christmas eve, and to set a bowl for the shakings of Santa Claus' bag on New Year's eve? When a child has done a kind deed or performed a difficult task, one wise teacher suggests that the Good Fairy reward him by leaving a gift in his shoe or under his pillow. In some homes the Jolly Goblins leave gifts on the table on Hallowe'en night; valentines are tucked under the door and candy hearts under the dishes, on the morning of Valentine's Day. And on April the first, gingerbread boys are found hiding under the overturned plates. Children who bravely submit to having a tooth extracted, may put the tooth in an envelope under their pillow, and they are rewarded the next morning by finding a coin in the envelope. Lovely letters telling children that they are appreciated, that they have accomplished creditable tasks and that their life is really very much worth while, give them courage and determination to succeed. Let us "Build a little fence of trust around today Fill the space with loving work and therein stay." No child wants to confess that he is afraid or that he has failed or done wrong. It is not easy for any person, young or old, to admit that he has weaknesses. But if such condition exists, it is to the eternal betterment of the child if he can talk the matter over freely and confidentially with one of his parents, whose loving sympathy will help him to make matters right and to reestablish his self-respect and self-confidence. It is of greater value to a young person to inspire him with a supreme faith in the ultimate purpose of life, and confidence in his superior worth. Than to present him with a gift of gold. While little Dan Cupid guards the heart of the home, the firelight playing across his sunny curls, let us rest in the security of his gentle presence. And let us make a solemn promise 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to ourselves that no day shall pass by in which we do not perform some loving service for the uplift. Every road is a bright road When love is by your side. And poverty seems riches The whole world might divide And heaven to earth draws nearer When love is by your side.”—Frank L. Stockton THE PRICELESS GIFT By Viola Stone Card Dear Lord, if in thy gracious hand Thou hast a gift for me, Grant me not wealth of treasures, rare, Nor ease, nor luxury, Nor fame, that fragile, tinsel toy That only brings synthetic joy; All these are vain; they pass away— Mere shadows of the real; And so, my gracious Lord, I pray— Before thy throne I kneel— And humbly plead for Wisdom's Light, A lamp to make my pathway bright; — If only just a tiny spark Of thy eternal Flame, To guide me safely through the dark And glorify my name Among the blessed Sanctified— Redeemed Ones for whom Christ died. Loving service for the uplift and the happiness of others. "Every storm bends rain-bows Over the world so wide, And poverty seems riches The whole world might divide, When love is by your side." —Frank L. Stockton. Relief Society Playlet on the New Testament By Alberta Stake Board Characters: Father, Mother, Rex, aged 12 years; Grace, aged 14 years; John, aged 8 years; May, aged 6 years. Mother, father and children seated as a family group. Father and mother appear to have been discussing the Relief Society project. Father: But I don't see where an outline like this is going to be much help in studying the New Testament. If I had anything to do with outlining a study course I would have them read the whole book. Mother: But, father, you don't seem to know just what is wanted. The General Board of Relief Society asked us to get a general outline of the New Testament discussed in every home now and the reading of the books may come later. Word has been brought back home from the mission field that our boys and girls know very little about the Bible when they enter their field of labor. Sometimes the missionaries use weeks of their valuable time learning some of the fundamental things that they should have known before leaving home. Not long ago one returned missionary told me that before entering the mission field he knew nothing of the Ten Commandments, Christ's Sermon on the Mount or even a passage of scripture. He could not repeat the names of the books of the Bible and many of us here at home are in the same predicament. John: How many books are there in the New Testament? Grace: About thirty, aren't there, y mother? I know the Old Testament has thirty-nine books. Rex: I don't think that's right, Grace. I know of a good way to remember the number of books in the New Testament. John: Tell us, Rex, so we'll all know. Rex: There are three letters in "New," (spells n-e-w) and nine letters in Testament (spells t-e-st-a-m-e-n-t). Three times nine are twenty-seven. Father: Fine idea. Learn that? Rex: Mother and I have been figuring it out. Mother: We not only want to know how many books there are in the New Testament but should also know just a little of what each book contains. John; My teacher wants us to read the story of the Life of Christ and I don't know where to find it in the Bible. Mother: Daddy will show you if you would like him to. Father: You see, the Life of Christ is told in the first four books of the New Testament. Rex: Father, I know what those books are. Father: Fine. Let's hear you repeat the first four books. Rex: (repeats) Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. Father: Very well. There are more of the things that Jesus taught in the Book of Matthew than any other book of the New Testament. What are a few of the teachings of Matthew, Grace? (Grace then repeats the Beatitudes.) Where did you 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Father: Now, there is another difference between the writings of Matthew and the writings of Mark which helps us distinguish between them. Matthew contains Christ's teachings and Mark tells of the miracles he performed. Rex, you may tell us of the miracle of the feeding of the five thousand recorded in Mark, 6th Chapter, commencing with the 30th verse. (Rex then repeats the story of the miracle.) John: (who has the Bible, looking at it) Mother, I never knew until now where the story of the Pradigal Son was. It makes me feel like I can forgive everyone when I read that beautiful story. Mother: There always was a moral in all of the parables of the Savior, John. But we are forgetting one of the most important things in our discussion. We are asked by our Relief Society president to have the story of the birth of Christ told in every home and we would appreciate having you tell us the story of His birth, John. (John tells the story contained in Matthew, 2nd chapter, Ist to 20th verses.) Father: You may learn the names of the books and have your stories but give me a good sermon. Now take Paul, for instance, he tells us Mother: Yes, I know it is all told in Acts, Romans, Ist and 2nd Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, lst and 2nd Thessalonians, lst and 2nd Timothy, Titus, Philemon. Father, you know I dare not let you get started on Paul's teachings for you don't know where to quit. (laughs) Father: I only wanted to speak of the wonderful personality of Christ when he had reached his manhood and for us not to forget what he did for the world as well as the example he set us. Rex: (standing and throwing back his shoulders) When I grow to be a man I am going to be a Bishop. Mother: (surprised) Why, Rex, whatever do you mean? Rex: When our bishop was talking to us boys one day he turned over in his Bible like this (takes Bible and hunts around) and told us what a Bishop has to do and be. Father: Son, did you say your bishop found that in the Bible? Rex: Yes, father, it is there. Father: Well, son, I guess you will have to find it. I can't. Rex: (takes Bible and turns quickly to lst Timothy, 3rd Chapter, lst Verse. Places book before father and reads) "If a man desireth the office of a bishop he desireth the good work," and in Titus, lst Chapter and 7th Verse it says, "For a bishop must be blameless as the steward of God, not selfwilled, not soon angered, not given to wind, no striker, not given to filthy lucre." Father: Good. Now grow up fast my boy. (pats him on the shoulder) Nothing would please me better than to some day see you made a bishop. May: (who has been holding a doll, rises up) Don't they say anything in the Bible about our prayers, Daddy? Father: What do you know about that? I thought my little girl was only thinking about her doll. It is one of the greatest teachings of Christ. I wonder if my little girl could say the Lord's Prayer as contained in the New Testament. (The little girl repeats the Lord's Prayer as found in Matthew, 6th chapter, 9-13 verse.) RELIEF SOCIETY PLAYET ON THE NEW TESTAMENT 91 Father: We cannot get very far without faith and prayer in this life. Grace: I read a most remarkable story from the Bible on faith and prayers the other day, mother. Would you like me to relate it? (Grace then relates story, Queen Esther.) Father: A great understanding has come to me, mother, and I am in hearty accord with you on this project. I did not realize what it would mean to a family to learn the books of the Bible and what they contain and where to turn to things when needed. I find I will have to brush up myself. Grace: Let's see who can be first to learn the project. Mother: I would like our family to be first to report 100%. All: We will do it, mother. How Mother Does It By Bergeta Williams (A peep into the Dean home at the close of the day.) The scene is the dining room of the Dean home. A pleasant, cheerful room, with buffet and easy chairs, As the curtain rises, Mrs. Dean is busy setting the table for the evening meal. She hums softly as she works, twice she goes to the window and looks out into the fast gathering dusk. Mrs. D.: (agitatedly) It's almost dark and the children not home from primary yet. I do wish they would hurry; (glances up at clock) only five thirty, it gets dark so early these winter evenings. (She turns on the light and resumes her work at the table, that finished she turns toward the kitchen, when an outer door opens and Madge, a girl of about seventeen, enters. She is dressed in a pretty wool dress and jacket and carries an armful of books, which she drops onto a nearby table.) Madge: Bus was late again, I wish we could get home early once in a while. Did you get my dress finished? Mrs. D.: Yes, all pressed and everything. Madge: Gee, ma, you're a peach, (Kisses her on both cheeks. ) Mrs. D.: Where's Ted? Madge: Talking football with El. Mer, he'll be here in a minute. Is dad home yet? Mrs. D.: No, but he'll be here any minute now. Madge: Have I got time for a bath before supper? I'm simply fagged. (starts for stairs without waiting for an answer) Mom, guess who dated me for the dance tonight? Mrs. D.: Oh, Bob, I guess. Madge: Harold Eastman, and am I thrilled! (she dashes up the stairs) Mrs. D.: (softly) My little girl, almost a woman. (hurries into kitchen) The door opens to admit Ted, a good looking youth of about fifteen. He drops his books onto the table beside Madge's, and starts toward the kitchen, calling. Ted: Oh, ma, what have we got for supper? I'm starved. Mrs. D.: (enters with a plate of cake) Hello, son, how's everything tonight? Ted: Swell. Can I have a piece of cake? (tries to take a piece, but she pushes him playfully away) Mrs, D,; Now, son, you wait for 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE supper; you know cake isn't good for you on an empty stomach. Ted: Anything would be good for a stomach as empty as mine. Just a bite, you don't realize how hungry I get. (tries again to take a piece, but she eludes him and places cake on table) Mrs. D.: You can taste the tester, I tried out a new recipe that I saw in the "Relief Society Magazine." Ted: Well, if it's as good as it looks, T'll eat my share. Oh, by the way, those were sure swell sandwiches you sent for lunch today. Mrs. D.: Were they good? I know how tiresome the same old lunches are every day, so I like to surprise you once in a while with something different. I knew I had seen some snappy suggestions for school lunches in the Relief Society Magazine, so I tried them this morning, and this cake recipe sounded so good I just had to try it, too. Ted: Boy, I hope my wife can cook, if I ever get one. (they go out laughing but return immediately with food which they place on table) There, this supper looks almost good enough to eat. Mrs. D.: Now, if father and the children would only come. (a noise is heard outside) Maybe that's them now. (Ted goes out into kitchen, Mrs. D. Starts toward outer door but before she reaches it, Harry Dean, a kindly man of about forty, and two children, Tom, ten, and Isabelle, eight, enter.) Harry: (kissing Mrs. Dean) How's my girl? Mrs. D.: All right. I'm glad you remembered to call for the children. (to children) Did you have a good primary? Isabelle: Lovely! We have a new teacher, I like her. Mrs. D.: (to Harry) How did things go at the office? (takes his hat) Supper's all ready. You children run and wash quickly. Harry: Everything was A-1 today, Mary, but I'm always glad to get home to a warm supper, an easy chair and—you. Mrs. D.: No blarney, now. (they go out together. Ted comes in and arranges chairs at table. Isabelle and Tom dash in and sit at table almost upsetting each other.) Isabelle: Look, Tom, chocolate cake for supper. (Tom attempts to take a piece) Ted: Say, won't you kids ever learn anything? Get up from there and wait until the rest get here—and let that cake alone. (tries to crack Tom's fingers with fork but Tom jumps back) Tom: Well, good gosh, I'm hungry. Mrs. D.: (In doorway) Now, boys, please be quiet, your father is tired. Isn't Madge down yet? Isabelle: Vl get her. (runs to foot of stairs and calls) Madge, oh, Madge, we're ready to eat. Madge: Coming. Mr. D. Enters and they take their places at the table. Madge: (comes down the stairs dressed for the dance, she goes to Mr. D. And kisses him on the forehead, then stands back for inspection) How do I look, daddy? Harry: Stunning, my dear, but when did we start diessing up for supper. Madge: (takes her place) What night is this? Harry: Friday the seventh. Oh, a dance, well, that's a very pretty dress you have. Madge: Mother made it, I just love it. Harry: Isabelle, you return thanks. HOW MOTHER DOES IT 93 (they bow their heads and are silent a moment) Tom: (raising his head first) Please pass the beans. Madge: What did you get on that English test, Ted? Ted: Oh, why bring that up? Madge: My, but I have a lot of work 'this week-end. I have to write a theme and a book report and a dozen other things all for Monday. That geometry is worse than a Chinese puzzle. Ted: Pooh! That's easy, write me a theme and I'll help you with geometry. Madge: That's a go. Now, answer this one—name the ten most important women of the last one hundred years. Ted: I'll take the last ten years— Ethel Barrymore, Greta Garbo, May West, Norma Madge: I didn't say movie actresses —silly. Isabelle: Mamma, please spread my bread, this butter is hard. Mrs. D.: (buttering bread) I believe I can help you with that one, Madge. Madge: Can you, mom, that's swell, where did you find 'em? Mrs. D.: Well, I always squeeze out a little time to read the Relief Society Magazine, if I don't read anything else, and just this afternoon I noticed a little item that gave the names of the twelve most important women in the last century. Madge: Does that take a load off my mind! Harry: Tom, don't make so much noise with that soup. Isabelle: I am glad I was here yesterday when you had the Relief Society teachers; cur Primary lesson was on the beatitudes, and I knew a lot about it after listening to the lesson they gave you. Ted: Gee, ma, I wish that favorite magazine of yours would print some hot stuff on American Literature, so you could help me once in a while. Mrs. D.: Well, our literary lessons are so excellent that maybe I will be able to help you some. (There is a knock, Madge goes to the door and opens it.) Madge: How do you do, Mrs. Leads, come in. Mrs. L.: Good evening, everybody. All: Good evening, Mrs. Leads. (Mr. And Mrs. D. Rise) Mrs. D.: Won't you have some supper with us? Mrs. L.: Oh, no, thank you, keep your chairs, (Mr. D. Indicates a chair and she sits) I am sending my orders for the Magazine in the morning and I wondered if you wanted to renew your subscription? Ted: Oh, you don't have to ask mother that, Mrs. Leads, she just couldn't live without that magazine. Mrs. D.: Well, it does seem almost indispensable. Isabelle: Shall I get your bank? (Mrs. D. Nods, Isabelle runs into bedroom and returns with paper bank) I wonder how much money you have? Mrs. L.: Why, how unique! Mrs. D.: Well, it's so hard to get that much money all at once that I made this little bank. It is always in plain sight on my dresser so if Harry has an extra quarter he drops it in, and even the children surprise me by adding a penny once in a while. (she opens the bank and counts the money, the family are interested spectators) Three dollars. (she holds up a one dollar bill) Harry, you must have put this in. Harry: Maybe I did. 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mrs. D.: Here is the dollar for the magazine, and I will pay my fifty cent membership now, too. Mrs. L.: Oh, thank you, Mrs. Dean, I am going to tell all of the sisters about your bank, it is surely a splendid idea. I must be going now as I have several others I would like to see before I send that order off. (at the door) Good-bye. All: Good-bye. Mrs. D.: Call again, Mrs. Leads. (exit Mrs, Leads) Madge: Alice is going to fix my hair, may I run over there now? I won't be long. Mrs. D.: Why, yes. It's Tom's and Isabelle's turn to wash dishes. (Madge goes) Tom: Ah, heck, I was in hopes you'd forget. Isabelle: Me, wash. (they begin clearing the table) Ted: Are my pants pressed, ma? Mrs, D.: Yes, I Jaid them out on your bed. Ted: (goes to Mrs. D. And puts his arm around her) Say, Dad, we just couldn't get along without this efficient, little old lady, could we? Harry: Well, hardly. She's just about as indispensable to us, as that much mentioned magazine is to her. (they laugh) (Curtain) A Secret Something Whispers By Isaac B. Ball ALMOST all Latter-day Saints A have learned to love from infancy the old familiar poem and hymn, O My Father, in which are found these words, "Yet oft-times a secret something Whispers, 'You're a stranger here;' The lines of the illumined English poet, William Wadsworth, are also often quoted, lines which begin, "Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting; The Soul that rises with us, our life's Star, Hath had elsewhere its setting And cometh from afar." But it seems entirely possible that most of us are not acquainted with the interesting fact that the eminent American poet, James Russell Lowell, in one of his inspired writings refers to a vague and ghostly ''something" which stirred deep feelings within him so that he cried, "Sometimes a breath floats by me, An odor from dreamland sent, That makes the ghost seem nigh me Of a splendor that came and went." When you read Lowell's full quotation you see that he had equally clear intimations of immortality and a sense of a former holy habitation where our spirits did once in truth reside. It may therefore be of some interest and of some value to here set down for contrast and for whatever use the reader may wish to make ot them the three famous and clearest poetic expressions of that haunting "hunch" that possesses almost all of us at some enlightened moment of a fore-existence in some farforgotten past. Of these three it may in all fairness and kindliness be said that the Utah poetess, Eliza R. Snow, seems to have stated her intimations in such a crystal and convincing manner as is not approached by the two poets of wider A SECRET SOMETHING WHISPERS by Isaac B. Ball 95 acclaim. But in saying this we are in duty bound to add that she alone of the three favored ones enjoyed the high privilege to have had her own whispering, secret "something" confirmed, inspired and enlarged by a close personal association with Joseph Smith, the American Prophet, one of the world's greatest Seers, to whom these dim whisperings, which to the poetic nature were but mystic intimations, were subjects of heavenly visions and prophetic revelations from the Father to the children of men. We shall begin therefore with the familiar Mormon classic, O My Father, "For a wise and glorious purpose Thou hast placed me here on earth And withheld the recollection Of my former friends and birth; Yet oft-times a secret something Whispers, 'You're a stronger here.' And I felt that I had wandered From a more exalted sphere." And while this melody of word and thought is still lilting itself through the harp strings of your mind will you attend to these sweet strains from the Ode to Immortality, by William Wordsworth, "Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting; The Soul that rises with us, our life's Star, Hath had elsewhere its setting And cometh from afar; Not in entire forgetfulness, And not in utter nakedness, But trailing clouds of glory do we come From God who is our home." Now that you are in the mood and current of this fine theme I joyfully bring you the soul-searching phrases of our beloved Lowell,— Lowell, our greatest American man of letters in variety of theme, power, and force,—Lowell, who gave us his Columbus, The Present Crisis, The Vision of Sir Launfal, and who now in the poem, In the Twilight, voices for us that which many feel but so few can express, his intimation that man was in the beginning with God, "Sometimes a breath floats by me, An odor from Dreamland sent, That makes the ghost seem nigh me Of a splendor that came and went, Of a life lived somewhere, I know not In what diviner sphere, Of memories that stay not and go not, Like music once heard by an ear That cannot forget or reclaim it, A something so shy it would shame it To make it a show, A something too vague, could I name it, For others to know, As if I had lived it or dreamed it, As if I had acted or schemed it, Long ago!" HE contrast between these three is marked and distinct. Wordsworth is contemplating the babe and youth whom, he sees, come into life trailing clouds of divinity until it is all but lost in the world-blinded adult. Lowell is stirred by lovely glimmerings of a splendor and a life he felt he had lived somewhere in some diviner sphere, memories indistinct but unforgettable. Eliza R. Snow is uttering an invocation to the heavenly Father and Mother. She alone comprehends that the relationship in that happier estate was as real as the relationship that exists between any father and son or daughter on earth, that man's spirit is actually the offspring of Deity and that the proper mode of address to Deity is the Christ-taught phrase— "Our Father who art in Heaven." We shall leave the reader to answer whether any of the three except the Utah poetess could have penned with clearness and conviction the last sublime verse of O My Father, "When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? Then at length when I've completed All you sent me forth to do, With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you."
The Longest Journey
By Joseph L. Blaine
"WELL, young woman, are you glad you're married?" Elaine stood in the curve of her tall husband's arm, leaning her shining dark head lightly against his shoulder. They were looking at their wedding presents. Dishes, vases, silverware, linen, etc., were piled on the dresser, on chairs and peeking out of boxes in the corner of their bed room. Peter and Elaine were going to live with Peter's mother.
"Really, Elaine," Peter had said, "It would be more than foolish for us to buy a place of our own and leave mother alone in that big house. Father deeded the place to me before he died, but mother holds the deeds as long as she lives. You won't mind, will you? She is old and it would be pretty hard for her to live alone."
Elaine had agreed, although that had been the one shadow on their otherwise perfect marriage. Peter was everything she had dreamed of for her ideal man. She gloried in the strength and cleanness of his splendid, young manhood. She was so proud to be his wife. It was easy to see that he was admired and respected by young and old, alike, in the little community in which he lived.
A dear friend had said, "Oh, Elaine, if you value your happiness at all, don't, for goodness sakes, try to live with your husband's mother! Our first months of marriage were perfect, then we moved in with Edward's mother. You know how things are with us now!"
Elaine did know, and it sent a little chill over the wealth of happiness that filled her days. She had laughed, however, and said, gaily, "Oh, surely, I can get along with just one poor, old, lonesome woman. She's awfully sweet, really, and she must be ever so nice to have a son as grand as Peter!"
Now, she said, looking a little thoughtfully at the presents, "Where shall we put them, Peter?"
"Oh, we'd just better box them up now, I guess. Mother has plenty of everything."
"We might just as well not have anything of our own," Elaine said quietly. She had tried to say it ever so lightly, but somehow her disappointment sounded, all too plainly, in the quiet words.
Peter turned quickly to look at her. Then he walked over to the bed and sat heavily down on the edge of it. Elaine, all repentance, flew after him and putting one arm around his neck, said breathlessly, "Don't feel badly. I didn't mean anything."
The possibility that Elaine would not like to live in his Mother's home had never once entered his mind. He really loved the old home and it was wonderful to have his two dearest ones together in it.
"You don't like to live here!" grieved Peter.
"Of course I do, Peter, dear. Of course I do. I'd be happy anywhere with you," Elaine said quickly.
FOR three weeks Elaine was sole mistress of the big house. Peter's mother had gone to visit with his sister, Martha, who had a new baby. Before leaving, she had told
THE LONGEST JOURNEY 97
Elaine that she might do the spring cleaning, while she was away.
Somehow, the cleaning of the strange, big, house, with all its enlarged pictures and its wealth of bric-a-brac, seemed the hardest task she had ever tried to do. She was afraid that she might do things wrong and she hadn't realized how tired she was from the three years of teaching school and helping care for her mother's home and the large amount of church work that she had done. Always she had loved to work in the church and being willing and capable, one task after another had been given her including several responsible positions in the different organizations. She had given her best to every task and responsibility and had counted each one a privilege and an opportunity, but now, with all of it, and the help she had given at home and teaching school, she was so tired. If only it could have been their own little home that she was to clean, how joyful the task would have been.
THE morning Peter's mother came home, bringing Martha and her two children with her for a visit, Elaine was still in bed. For the first time Peter had prepared his own breakfast.
"You stay in bed today, honey, I don't like the sound of that cold," he had said, tenderly, when she had started to get up.
The deserted breakfast table showed plainly that a man had fixed the breakfast and eaten it alone. Elaine felt that Peter's mother and sister saw and disapproved, although they greeted her warmly. Peter came bounding in when he came from the farm.
"Hello, mother! Hello, there, Martha! Well, if it isn't great to see you! How's the new edition?" he cried, kissing them and laughing over the new baby.
DURING the weeks that followed, it seemed to Elaine that she never saw her husband alone. She learned to dread to hear, "It is none of my business, of course, but if I were you—"
She knew that she seemed only a child to Peter's mother, who was really old enough to be her grandmother. If only she wasn't always so firm and so kind and so sure that with all her years and experience, she knew best and it was her duty to tell Elaine how to do everything.
"It really seems very extravagant to me to use cold cream," she said one day, "when soap and water are just as good. That's all I've ever used."
Another day, when Elaine started to make a cake, she brought another recipe and said, "Use this recipe. I've always found it very good and it only calls for one egg."
That time Elaine said rather firmly, and much to her mother-in-law's surprise, "I'd rather use this one, Mother Hartford."
It was the first and one of the few times that Elaine didn't do exactly as Peter's mother said to do. She stood by the table and looked the impersonation of disapproval as Elaine broke three eggs into the batter. Elaine felt so nervous at being watched so closely that she was sure that she would do something wrong. She could have cried when the cake fell and Mother Hartford said, "It was too rich. There's no need of using three eggs. One egg makes as good a cake as anyone could ask for."
THE second ripple that disturbed the surface serenity was when Mother Hartford asked Elaine what she had done with the pictures that had hung on the walls of Peter's room and Elaine told her that she
98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
had put them in the attic. Elaine had felt that she would scream if she had to look again at the dreadful prints in huge frames and Peter had taken them upstairs for her. Elaine saw her mother-in-law's lips tighten.
"They will be ruined, lying up there in the heat. We've had them up for years and years. You'd better hang them up again."
This time Elaine said, a little stubbornly, "I won't have those pictures on the walls of my room!"
Later Peter said, coldly, "It wasn't necessary to speak to mother like that."
"I'm sorry, dear, and I told her I was. I do wish we could buy a little home of our own. I feel like an outsider here. Your mother has her way of doing things and it's a good way, I know, but I'd like to do things my way, once in a while."
Suddenly she was weeping in his arms and he was kissing her and saying, "Don't mind mother because she tells you how to do things. She's only trying to help you. She really loves you a lot. We both seem like kids to her. She was over forty when I was born you know."
MARTHA had visited with her mother and Peter and Elaine about five weeks and Elaine resented more and more that she and Peter were never alone. If only they could get away for an hour or so together.
One morning Peter came in to say that he had to go up to the springs to change the water and he thought he'd better go in the car.
"Oh, Mother Hartford, do you mind if I go?" Elaine cried eagerly. Jerking off her kitchen apron and hanging it behind the door, she was off, smoothing her hair as she ran. An hour alone with Peter! It would be a life-saver. A nerve-saver at least! She squeezed herself up close against him and smiled happily into his face.
Her smile vanished, quickly, when she saw the cold fury there.
"Why, Peter," she cried aghast, "Is anything the matter?"
"Honestly, Elaine, sometimes it seems as if you never think of anyone but yourself. Why couldn't you have asked mother and Martha to come along. They would have enjoyed the ride, too. Instead of that, you run off and leave them to get dinner! In spite of the aching hurt and biting disappointment, Elaine said, contritely, "Oh, Peter, I'm so sorry. Let's go back and get them."
"It is too late now, you should have thought of it sooner," Peter answered, coldly.
This was their first hour alone in weeks. It had meant so much to her and it meant only to him that she was thoughtless and unkind to his people. She had tried so hard to be good to them, to obey his mother and never to let them guess the feeling of resentment that lived in her heart because she couldn't know the joy of having Peter to herself, or of caring for a little home of their own.
WHEN Peter got out of the car to walk the remaining half mile to where he must change the water, she was desperately glad of the chance to be alone, so that she could cry. There was no one near and she could release the sobs that were choking her. In the midst of her unrestrained weeping, she thought she heard someone call, "Oh, Mrs. Hartford!" She lifted her flushed and tear stained face to meet the surprised
THE LONGEST JOURNEY 99
and concerned one of an old farmer who lived on the nearest farm.
"I thought this was Peter's car," he said, "Jim, my boy, is so sick that I came over to see if Peter would help me to administer to him."
"I'll send him over just as soon as he comes," Elaine said faintly, controlling her voice with an effort, "He is just up turning the irrigating stream. I'm so sorry about Jim."
AFTER Peter had returned from the farm house he took Elaine tenderly into his arms. "Oh, dearest, I'm so sorry I hurt your feelings. I love you so."
"Peter, dear, I've wanted so much, to be alone with you for a little while. We never are alone," she sobbed.
"I thought you'd like it too."
It was wonderful to be in his arms. Wonderful to have him understanding and his own dear self again.
IN August Elaine went home for a short visit. It was good to see her friends, good to see her dear mother and father, her brothers and sisters, but after she'd seen and talked to them for a couple of days, she started to long for Peter.
On the fifth day of her visit when she went down town to buy some things for her mother, she met a Mr. Warner from her new home town, who laughed and said, "Just on my way home. Want to come along?" He laughed still more at her eager, "Yes, oh, yes!"
Later as they were going through the mountains a few miles from Heber City, Mr. Warner said, "Why there's Peter's team. He must be farther up, getting wood."
"Are you sure it is his team? If you are, please let me out here!" Mr. Warner laughed again. These newlyweds! He waited until he saw the tall form of Peter wave his hat and start down the hill, as his young wife raced up it, then he set her suit case by the side of the road, smiled and waved, as she turned to call her thanks, and drove off.
In another moment Elaine felt the ecstasy of being in her tall husband's arms and hearing him say, between kisses, "Darling, I've been so lonesome without you!"
A FEW days after Elaine came home, Peter burned his arm and she wrapped it in wet soda. When his mother came in and was told what had happened, she cried, "Oh, soda is no good. Use salty butter." She quickly took off the bandage and applied the salty butter.
That night when Elaine cried about it, Peter said, "But, sweetheart, she does know best. She is lots older and has had a lot more experience than you have."
So the old feeling of being a useless outsider came back again.
PETER'S brother, Joe, moved into a new brick house and his old adobe one was for sale.
"Oh, dearest, please let's buy it! I can't bear living here any longer. Your mother is grand, but it is an old saying that no house on earth is big enough for two women. I know. We'd just love each other if we didn't live together. That house is near here, too, so she wouldn't be so lonesome."
"Why, Elaine, you don't want that old house. It's about to fall down," Peter teased, but he went to his brother and asked him about the house and Joe said he'd sell it for $600.00.
When Peter told Elaine that he
100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
would buy the house if she really wanted it, she was delighted. She hurried to tell Peter's mother, who burst into tears, "I didn't think that I had treated you so badly that you'd want to get away. I've tried to be good to you," she wept.
"Why, Mother Hartford, you've been grand to me, but it would be such fun to fix up that place!"
"Fun!" Mother Hartford sniffed, "the old thing will fall down on you!"
Later Elaine saw Peter a few minutes alone. "Your mother cried when I told her," she said soberly, "We'll have to forget about moving, I can't bear to make her feel so badly."
A FEW days later, Peter awoke with a heavy cold and by afternoon he had a slight fever.
"I'll put on hot packs wrung out of mustard water and then rub your chest with Vapo rub and you'll soon be all right," Elaine said, bringing in the towels and the hot mustard water.
"No, no!" cried Mother Hartford. "That wet would be sure to cause pneumonia! For goodness sakes, don't do that!"
"You'd better not do that," Peter said, "mother's doctored colds for years."
The old familiar feeling of being useless and futile descended upon her again. The afternoon dragged on and on.
On Christmas night Joe came in to see how Peter was feeling and as the two brothers were talking, with their mother listening and joining in the conversation, Elaine slipped into the cold parlor. It was so silly to be always crying, she thought fiercely, as the tears ran down her face. She wasn't at all like herself anymore. She should have been called Niobe, for she was forever dissolving into tears. She heard a step outside the door and hurried noiselessly over to the window, to stand looking unseeingly out.
Peter's mother came into the moonlit dimness of the room. "Whatever are you doing in here," she asked curiously.
"Oh just looking at the moon. It is wonderful tonight," Elaine answered faintly. Really she hadn't been aware that there was a moon, but she was determined that her mother-in-law shouldn't know that she was weeping. She supposed that she would think that she was either crazy or heartless, standing here in the bitter cold of the seldom used parlor and looking at the moon, while her husband lay ill in their bed room.
"You'd better forget about the moon and come out where it is warm," Mother Hartford said shortly. "You'll be chilled to the marrow!"
THE next morning Elaine's head ached and felt as heavy as lead. Peter was much better and in a few days was over his cold, but Elaine kept getting worse. One night she awoke feeling very hot and with a burning pain in her chest. She aroused Peter. He dressed quickly, awakened his mother and rushed out to call the doctor.
The doctor looked grave, said something about pneumonia, and got to work. Mother Hartford worked with him, quickly and skillfully. Once he said, "It is fine to have someone to help who knows just how to do things."
"I've been around pneumonia before and I know that it takes work to get the best of it," Mother Hartford answered, her hands flying as she talked.
THE LONGEST JOURNEY 101
DURING the weeks of her sickness and convalescence, Mother Hartford was tireless in caring for Elaine, who realized that her own mother could not have cared for her more intelligently or more tenderly. The strength and calm and sweetness of Peter's mother made her feel grateful and ashamed. No wonder Peter was so fine. He had such a splendid mother.
"If I hadn't lived so close to her, I could have seen how wonderful she was long ago," she said to herself.
THE summer was hot and Elaine, well and strong again, thanks to the nursing of Peter's mother, picked English currants and gooseberries and helped to can fruit. One day as she and her mother-in-law sat in the kitchen peeling peaches, Mother Hartford said, "You must have had lots of fruit in American Fork."
"We did have quite a bit. Why?"
"Because no one who had had to be careful of fruit, would peel away such thick peelings as you do."
Elaine had thought that she would never again feel antagonistic towards her mother-in-law, after the loving care that she had given her. She knew that she literally owed her life to this rather stern and yet splendid woman, but as the days went by, little things grew big again and seemed to be mountains in the way of her happiness.
ONE of her duties was to clean the big, dark parlor every week and she always pulled the blinds to the top of the windows and opened the door wide. As the stately room, with its enlarged pictures and wealth of bric-a-brac, brightened in the flood of unaccustomed sunshine, Elaine's spirits seemed to grow lighter too. Mother Hartford always discovered the open windows and door, and hastened to close the door and pull the blinds down to a scant six inches from the bottom.
"Really, Elaine," she said one day, "you have faded the walls and carpet and everything in this room. Even the picture frames are falling to pieces. The sun and wind soon dry the glue until it is no good. I've tried for years to keep this room nice!"
Elaine didn't answer, but she cried when she told Peter about it. "I'm going home, Peter and stay there until we can get a home of our own, I'm of no use here. Your mother can do everything for you better than I can," she sobbed.
Peter laughed, then teased, then pleaded and finally got angry, but Elaine was determined.
"If you cared at all for me, you wouldn't want to leave me because mother treats you as if you were her own daughter. You know she loves you after the way she cared for you when you were sick. How can you want to leave her here alone?"
"She is well and strong and she'll be happier managing her own home, in her own way, instead of always having some one in it, doing things in a way that displeases her. She was wonderful to me when I was sick and I appreciate it, but I won't live here any more."
PETER took Elaine home on Friday. His mother thought that she was just going home for a visit. They talked very little during the ride to American Fork. After they had visited a while with Elaine's family, the two talked alone for a few minutes in the big, homelike living room.
"Elaine, you know I can't afford a new house and there is no need
102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of it when that one is going to be mine. Why can't you be reasonable?"
"I am reasonable, Peter. Why can't you see how impossible it is for me to stay there? Our marriage would have been perfect if I could have cared for you and our own little home. I can't stay there, although I love you until I feel as if I couldn't bear to be away from you."
"If you really loved me, you wouldn't mind that mother tries to help you with little things. The trouble is really all in your mind. Now listen, you stay here a week, or two weeks, and then come back and everything will be fine."
"It won't be fine and it won't work. I simply can't go back there, Peter."
"Nonsense! Of course you can. Don't be silly, Elaine. It is not half so bad as you think it is."
Both were talking now in cold, hard, biting tones.
"I'm not being silly, in fact for the first time since we were married, I'm being wise. It seems impossible that you can't see it," Elaine answered.
"Well, I must go," Peter said, still more coldly. "You've made your decision. I'm sorry. If you really cared for me it would have been a different one!"
ELAINE stood clinging to the door knob after Peter had gone. He hadn't even kissed her! Peter gone! Gone out of her life perhaps. Surely he didn't care for her, didn't love her as she loved him, or he must have seen how hard, how impossible it was for her to live in his mother's home. The hours seemed to drag endlessly over her sleepless eyes before she finally fell into a troubled sleep.
The days moved by like bad dreams. She knew that her father and mother were worried and felt that there was some trouble between Peter and her. She couldn't talk about it. It didn't seem loyal to Peter. Always before, she had enjoyed being in American Fork, but now, it seemed the most dreadful town in the world. She hated to go to church, dreaded to walk down town and avoided meeting people. She felt that everyone must see the unhappiness in her face and be curious about it.
Reading had always been her delight, but stories and articles did not seem to make sense now. Two weeks, that seemed to her aching heart to be a lifetime, passed and Peter hadn't written even a card.
One day she picked up a copy of "The American Poetry Journal" and aimlessly turned the pages. She started reading a very short poem, "Travel Diary," by Elinor Lennen. In which the writer affirmed that her longest journey was from closed door to empty chair "the night you said goodbye."
She read the four short lines over and over. At last she got scissors, clipped the poem and wrote her name across the bottom. She slipped it into an envelope that she quickly addressed to Peter. When she had posted it, a heavy load seemed to have been lifted from her tired heart. Peter would surely get the little poem next day by noon or shortly after. Tomorrow night she would be in his dear arms again, telling him that anything was preferable to the agony of being away from him.
Elaine awoke early, feeling that something wonderful was going to happen to her that day. Peter would surely come when he got the poem. She went about the house singing all
THE LONGEST JOURNEY 103
morning, but as the afternoon failed to bring Peter, fear grew in her heart. Time is agonizingly long to those who wait. Her eyes ached from watching the road and her heart ached with the longing and fear in it.
FOUR days dragged endlessly by. On Friday a neighbor brought in a copy of the little Heber City paper. Elaine read that Mr. Peter Hartford and his mother were in Salt Lake City, visiting her daughter, Mrs. Martha Stanton and family.
Rather breathlessly she told her mother that she would like to walk out to her father's farm about a half mile northeast of town.
"The walk will do you good," her mother said. The mother knew that something was wrong between Elaine and Peter. She could see and feel her child's suffering, but she wisely decided that it was best to pretend that everything was as usual and to pray silently and earnestly that everything would soon be all right.
Elaine walked, her feet keeping time to the heavy beating of her heart.
ON reaching the farm she sat down behind the friendly willows and let the tears fall unheeded down her cheeks. Suddenly two strong arms were tight around her and Peter's beloved voice was saying, "Darling, darling," over and over. Her heart was beating slowly, suffocatingly with the almost unbearable joy. She was alive again!
"Just got your letter when we got back from Salt Lake this afternoon. I raced down here. Your mother told me that you had started to walk out here. Oh, dearest, you did miss me!"
"Miss you!" she cried, clinging to him, her wet face pressed against his shoulder, "Oh, Peter, I'll live anywhere just so long as you are there!"
"How about living in Salt Lake then? I've landed a peach of a job. Would you like to have that home of your own up there?"
"Oh, Peter!"
YEARS after as the deep and sincere love grew in her heart for her splendid mother-in-law, it seemed as if the mother-in-law of her first two years of marriage had been another woman. Surely the jolly, happy, helpful and lovable woman that was Peter's mother and the children's adored grandmother, couldn't have been the woman who had once seemed so "bossy." It was hard, Elaine thought, being a mother-in-law. If you wanted to help or if you made a suggestion it always antagonized the daughters-in-law. The only solution was for every family to have its own home.
"Men don't understand how women feel about their homes," Mother Hartford said one day, in the slow, serious way Elaine loved. "Every woman needs a home of her own to putter around and manage. Why even the Bible says that a man should leave father and mother and cleave unto his wife!"
"Mother Hartford, you are always so sweet and wise and right. I hope I'll never have to live with any of my daughters-in-law when the time comes that I'll have some. I don't understand how I could have helped seeing how hard it was for you to have a thoughtless girl come into your well-managed home and upset things. I surely love and admire you now."
Elaine stooped swiftly and lightly kissed the pleasant face of her husband's mother.
Happenings
By Annie Wells Cannon
FEBRUARY—Good citizenship is proof sufficient of patriotism.
PRINCESS JULIANA of Orange, only child of Queen Wilhelmina, and heir apparent to the throne, has met and won her "Prince Charming." The royal wedding which occurred January 7, was one of splendor and rejoicing; a brilliant event of promise, like a star in the sky over war-clouded Europe.
THE new Queen of England, who before her marriage to the Duke of York, was Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon, daughter of a Scottish Earl, stands for what the English people like best in women—dignity, friendliness, conservatism and devotion to home. She has graced her place in the royal family with stateliness and tact.
MRS. REVA BECK BOSONE, first woman judge in Utah, is making good her declaration: to impose relatively heavy sentences for reckless and drunken driving.
BETTY JAYNES, 15-year-old Chicago girl, made a successful debut in opera this season as Mimi in "La Boheme."
ROSA PONSELLE, internationally famed opera singer, was recently married to a Baltimore business man. "Her art is supreme, she belongs to a great public, it is your duty to make her happy," admonished the jurist to the young husband.
VIRGINIA C. GILDERSLEEVE, Dean of Barnard College, and only woman member of the Judicial Council of New York State, received the award for Eminent Achievement for 1936 from the American Woman's Association.
FRAU ELSA EINSTEIN died last December, a loss to the world, for it is said that her watchfulness made the great scientist able to carry on his research free from worry and trouble.
MARGARET EVANS PRYOR, 95, Caroline C. Harris, 91, Caroline W. Humphreys, 85, and Emma Spencer Jacobs, 74, are notable Utah women who died last winter. All of them were pioneers and rendered marked service to their fellow men in their respective communities.
VERA BRITTAIN, author of "Testament of Youth," giving a picture of the wreckage of a generation by the World War, in her new book "Honorable Estate," presents a wider canvas covering a period of four decades with emphasis on the changing status of women, particularly wives.
MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT, America's greatest living suffragist, at the age of 78 is as optimistic as ever. She says, "I am neither disappointed nor encouraged about the participation of women in public affairs. They are behaving just as I thought they would."
JANET BEITH, who wrote the $20,000 prize novel, "No Second Spring," and Phyllis Bottome, author of "Private Worlds," have both published new novels this last year, "Sand Castle" and "Level Crossing" respectively.
Notes from the Field
Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary
HANDWORK FROM TAHITI
Tahitian Mission
THE above picture is a collection of beautiful handwork which was sent to the office from far away Tahiti. When the sisters of this Mission were told by the Relief Society President that the different member groups were having a display of handwork at the general office, they too were anxious to send a sample of their work. The collection which is photographed above came from the different branches, and was brought to the office by an Elder who returned from the Mission. According to Sister Muriel R. Mallory, the Relief Societies of this Mission are in a very excellent con-
106 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
dition. The sisters are striving to the best of their ability to cooperate in the work, and as far as possible follow the regular courses and activities of the organization. It becomes necessary at times to substitute material more suitable for the local conditions, but the Magazine is of great help, and the different materials sent from the office are used as far as possible. It is felt in the Mission that the sisters enjoy a great blessing in their work, and they join in sending their love and best wishes to the other Relief Society women throughout the world.
Brazilian Mission
FROM the Mission President, Sister Mary P. Howells, comes the pleasant news that the Relief Society work is getting actively started in this Mission. While there has been an organization for a few years in some of the large branches, very little has been done in any of the localities until recently. Now active organizations will be found in all of the branches. The material sent to this Mission will, as in other cases, have to be translated, but the sisters are most appreciative of the work and eager for instructions and for service in the Relief Society. Sister Howells writes: "We are very pleased in having a number of friends becoming interested in the Gospel through their activities in Relief Society, and we are expecting much in the future."
Netherlands Mission
A VERY interesting report of the work in the Netherlands Mission comes from the Mission President, Sister Hermana F. Lyon, and the account of the Relief Society conferences held shows a very distinct growth during the past year. The native sisters are very anxious to learn of the manner in which
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 107
Relief Society work is conducted, and of the Church-wide program. Some of the subjects discussed are "How we can make our Relief Society bigger and better," and "How Relief Society Teaching should be done." In addition to this the sisters have been shown samples of the handwork, and are extremely interested in this phase of the Relief Society program. A comparative report shows that during the year 1936 there was a very decided increase in attendance at the meetings, and in the general program of activities.
Danish Mission
VERY fine reports come from the Danish Mission where the Relief Society work has been most successfully conducted throughout the past year. In this Mission the effort was made to follow through very carefully the programs of study as suggested in the regular Relief Society courses, and some fine biographies which were especially interesting to the sisters of this land, were prepared by the native sisters. The District Conferences also were a very great success during the year, and did much to interest the sisters in the work. The Home Reading Project, "Back to the Scriptures," has met with particular favor in this Mission where it is enthusiastically conducted. The Mission President, Eliza S. Petersen, writes that they are well and enjoying their labors and thoroughly appreciate the cooperation of the fine people with whom they are working.
Hawaiian Mission
FROM the Hawaiian Mission very fine reports have come to the office of the splendid work which is done in the Relief Society. This land has long been known for its devotion to the work, and a letter from Sister Cassandra D. Bailey, Relief Society Mission President, is an expression of this fact. The sisters are enthusiastic in carrying out, as far as possible in all the branches of the Islands, the program of Relief Society work. The older mothers like to hear the lessons given in their native tongue, while the young mothers prefer English, so when the membership justifies it, two classes are held. In this Mission, as in some of the European, the literary lessons were chosen from some of the native personages, such as King Kamehameha I, King Kalakaua, and Queen Liliuokalani. In some of the branches there is a splendid cooperating course with the University Extension Division of Hawaii, and the sisters receive valuable instructions on the preparation of foods, balanced diets and home-making in various ways. Through the Relief Society the standards of home life are being raised to a higher level. There has been a great increase in the enrollment and in the attendance during the past year, and it is felt that this is largely due to the influence of the Relief Society Magazine, which now has a very fine circulation through the Islands.
SISTERS OF FRANKFURT DISTRICT OF SWISS-GERMAN MISSION
Swiss-German Mission
THE Mission President, Sister Susan G. Kelly, reports that they have just come to the close of the very successful series of Fall conferences in the Relief Society. The women throughout the Mission have thoroughly enjoyed the lessons in every department. They are very anxious to consider some of the practical phases of the work, and are particularly interested in subjects dealing with health, care of the teeth and kindred subjects. The work which is done for women is gaining each year in popularity, and the lessons have been much more enthusiastically received, and the sisters give more attention to them. Another interesting activity in this Mission is the Singing Mothers, who are doing very excellent work. The above picture is of the Frankfurt District. There are some very wonderful singers and musicians in this Mission, and the music is of an extremely high order.
Notes to the Field
THE Presidency and General Board of Relief Society are more grateful than is easily expressed, for the inspirational messages and beautiful greeting cards sent to them by the member organizations at the holiday season. They wish to thank each one individually for these. The tender expressions were but another exquisite reminder of the devoted service, the dependability, the unequalled cooperation of the Relief Society women in all Stakes, Wards and Missions. President Louise Y. Robison voices the sentiments of her co-workers when she sends her love and best wishes to every sister in the organization. Her constant prayer is that 1937 will be the happiest and most prosperous of years!
A LARGE majority of the Stakes have expressed a desire for the course of nine lessons. In some cases, however, it suits conditions better to begin the regular courses of study in September instead of October, and to close in May rather than carry through to June. There is no objection to this, provided the plan is uniform throughout the Stake. In order to meet the needs of those who desire to begin early, the publication of the lessons will begin in the July, 1937, issue of the Magazine, instead of in August, as previously announced.
Theology Department
The study of our Theological lessons, the Teachers' Topic, and the Scripture Reading all have a fine correlation one with the other. There are different methods of approach, but one single objective—the living, unfaltering conviction of the divinity of Jesus Christ. The following extract which is reputed to have been written by Napoleon, forcibly expresses this:
"Alexander, Caesar, Charlemagne, and I, have founded great empires; and upon what did these creations of our genius depend? Upon force. Jesus alone founded His empire upon love; and to this very day millions would die for Him. I think that I understand something of human nature, and I tell you all these were men, and I am a man. No other is like Him. Jesus Christ was more than a man. I have inspired multitudes with such an enthusiastic devotion, that they would have died for me; but to do this it was necessary that I should be visibly present with the electric influence of my looks, of my words, of my voice. When I saw men and spoke with them, I lighted up the flame of self-devotion in their hearts. Christ alone has succeeded in so raising the mind of man toward the unseen that it becomes insensible to the barriers of time and space. * * * All who sincerely believe in Him experience that remarkable supernatural love toward Him. This phenomenon is unaccountable; it is altogether beyond the scope of man's creative powers. Time, the great destroyer, is powerless to extinguish this sacred flame; time can neither exhaust its strength, nor put a limit on its range. This is what strikes me most; I have often thought of it. This it is which proves to me quite convincingly the Divinity of Jesus Christ."
NOTES TO THE FIELD 109
Literary Department
Consider Julia Ward Howe as:
1. Writer. Poems, "Battle Hymn of the Republic." Essays, Select examples you enjoy—why? Diary and letters.
2. Homemaker. Homes. Green Peace. "Revere the religion of home." Wife. Helpmate. Mother. Daughters. Little Sammy Hostess. Entertained graciously, often.
3. Friend. Emerson. Quote from journal. Whittier. Expression of appreciation.
4. Crusader. Peace movement, international. Woman's suffrage, sacred mission.
5. Worker. Lectures. Numerous. Subjects. Reading. Type. For enjoyment. Clubs, opportunities for public service. Traveler. Purpose, extent.
6. Philosopher. "The good God does not send affliction without comfort, but the weeping eyes and breaking heart must struggle through much anguish before they can reach it...."
7. Woman of Faith. "I desire to set my house in order, and be ready for my departure, thankful to live or willing to cease from my mortal life when God so wills."
Point out the changes in Julia Ward Howe as she developed from the shielded daughter of a rich man to the time when she entered into her husband's social work for the afflicted.
Interesting it is, and very enlightening to discuss Mrs. Howe's philosophy of life. Her biography contains many of her comments and views which would make profitable discussion pro and con, and this would be a most excellent way to socialize a lesson. For instance she has said, "I think perfect and fearless frankness one of our highest duties to man as well as to God."... "The manna fell from heaven early in the morning, and those who neglected to gather it were left without nourishment; it is early in life's morning that we must gather the heavenly food, which can alone support us through the burden and heat of the day."
Her daughter, Maud, asked her once, "Tell me what is the ideal aim of life?" She replied, "To learn, to teach, to serve, to enjoy!"
LEGISLATIVE. The State Legislature is now in session. Many matters of vital interest to the women of the state are being discussed. It is advisable to keep informed on these matters and so far as possible have an intelligent understanding of them. The laws that govern us mean much in the conduct of the home and our daily lives, and it is the privilege of every citizen to influence legislation that will better conditions and thwart if possible the passage of any measure deemed harmful to the welfare of the progress and prosperity of the state. The delegations from the different counties generally hearken to the appeals of their respective constituency. So let us be watchful and awake for the passage only of such measures as will in the best judgment promote the health, peace and prosperity of the people as a whole.
(Concluded on page 131)
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
LOUISE YATES ROBISON...........................................President AMY BROWN LYMAN..................................First Counselor KATE M. BARKER................................Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND......................General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD
Emma A. Empey Amy Whipple Evans Annie Wells Cannon Rosannah C. Irvine Jennie B. Knight Nettie D. Bradford Lalene H. Hart B. Y. Alder Elise Lotta Paul Inez K. Allen Baxter Cora L. Bennion Marcia Howells Ida P. Beal Emeline S. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor................................Mary Connelly Kimball Manager.................................Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager......................Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XXIV FEBRUARY, 1937 No. 2
Editorials
Abraham Lincoln
THE people of the United States show increased appreciation and love with each passing year for Abraham Lincoln, the Great Emancipator. His integrity, his loving kindness, his unswerving devotion to the right, his charity toward all, his happiness in bringing hope to the discouraged and succor to the condemned are never-failing sources of uplift to those who read the life of this man who faced criticism unflinchingly, who knew the weight of tremendous responsibilities and who never wavered in his allegiance to right. Although he was a "man of sorrows and acquainted with grief," his sense of humor carried him through many a dark valley and through many a trying situation. His stories never lose their savor. At one time he said, "They say I tell a great many stories. I reckon I do, but I have found in the course of a long experience that common people, take them as they run, are more easily influenced and informed through the medium of a broad illustration than in any other way, and as to what the hypercritical few may think, I don't care."
HE could read people very accurately. He was ever ready to grant the petition of the humble and sincere, but turned aside from the haughty and arrogant. At one time a woman in an imperious mood said, "Mr. President, you must give me a colonel's commission for my son. Sir, I demand it, not as a favor but as a right. Sir, my grandfather fought at Lexington. Sir, my uncle was the only man who did not run away at Bladensburg. Sir, my father fought at New Orleans and my husband was killed at Monterey." "I guess, madam," Lincoln replied dryly, "your family has done enough for the country. It is time to give somebody else a chance."
EDITORIALS 111
His heart was full of tenderness for the soldiers whether they fought for or against the Union. Only one week before his assassination President Lincoln visited the army of the Potomac at City Point, Virginia. Dr. Jerome Walker relates that he was an agent of the United States Sanitary Commission attached to the 9th corps hospital at that time. Although he was only 19, he was assigned the duty of conducting the President through his department of the hospital system. He says, "As we went from tent to tent I could not but note his gentleness, his friendly greetings to the sick and wounded, his quiet humor as he drew comparisons between himself and the very tall and very short men with whom he came in contact. Finally we came to the wards occupied by sick and wounded Southern prisoners. With feeling of patriotic duty I said, 'Mr. President, you won't want to go in there; they are only rebels.' He gently put his hand on my shoulder, 'You mean Confederates.' I noticed that he was just as kind in his handshake, just as hearty in his interest for the welfare of these men as when he was among our own soldiers. As we went to headquarters, the President urged upon me the importance of caring for them as faithfully as I should for our own sick and wounded."
AGAIN and again did he incur the wrath of military leaders by pardoning those condemned to death. At one time an old man came to the White House to say that his son, who was in General Butler's command, would be shot on a certain day unless the President in his mercy would forgive the offense. Lincoln was sorry but felt he could do nothing, for just yesterday he had received this telegram from Butler: "I pray you not to interfere with the courts-martial of the army. You will destroy all discipline among our soldiers." After Lincoln saw his visitor's grief, he exclaimed, "By jings, Butler or no Butler, here goes," and wrote his order: "Job Smith is not to be shot until further orders from me. A Lincoln." The old man as he read this was disappointed. He had come for a pardon. The President kindly said to him, "My old friend, you are not very well acquainted with me. If your son never looks on death till further orders come from me to shoot him, he will live to be a great deal older than Methuselah."
At one time he said to Speaker Colfax, "It makes me feel rested after a hard day's work if I can find some good excuse for saving a man's life, and I go to bed happy as I think how joyous the signing of my name will make him and his family and his friends."
HE was unusually fond of children. He liked to have them near him. He understood them as few men could and could sympathize with their restless activity. The Reverend Mr. Alcott relates that at one time he saw Lincoln coming away from church very early. Tad was slung across his left arm like a pair of saddle bags. Mr. Lincoln strode along with long and deliberate steps toward home. On one of the street corners he encountered a group of his fellow townsmen. He anticipated the question which the group was about to ask and taking his figure of speech from practices with which the group was familiar he said, "Gentlemen, I entered this colt, but he kicked around so I had to withdraw him."
WHILE criticism must have hurt him, because he was very sensitive, yet he never let it interfere
112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
with his work, neither did he hold hard feelings against the ones who criticised him. He felt that if he did the very best he could, it did not much matter whether people understood or not. At one time President Lincoln was talking to an officer about an attack made on him for a certain alleged blunder. The matter involved had come directly under the observation of the one to whom he was talking and this man who had official evidence completely refuting the conclusions of the one who attacked the President, said, "Might it not be well for me to set RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE this matter right in a letter to some paper stating the facts as they actually transpired?" "Oh no," replied the President, "At least not now. If I were to try to read, much less to answer, all the attacks made on me, this shop might as well be closed for any other business. I do the very best I know how—the very best I can; and I mean to keep doing so until the end. If the end brings me out all right, what is said against me won't amount to anything. If the end brings me out wrong, ten angels swearing I was right would make no difference." Control of Cancer UNDER the direction of Grace Morrison Poole, Past-President of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, now Dean of Stoneleigh College, Marjorie B. Illig, Chairman of the National Health Division of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, Dr. C. C. Little, Managing Director of the American Society for the Control of Cancer and Director of the Roscoe B. Jackson Memorial Research Laboratory, the women of the United States are being called upon to wage war against one of the greatest menaces to life—cancer. Cancer kills 140, 000 persons each year, and it is estimated that one-half of these could be saved if they sought medical treatment when the cancer danger signals appear. It is fitting that women should form an army to battle against this disease since they suffer more from it than do men, and the types of cancer that strike them, cancer of the uterus and breast, may be cured in seventy per cent of the cases if taken in time. Women have already played an important part in combattir~ tuberculosis and in charity and public health drives. Now they are asked to replace fear and inert ignorance with courageous alertness plus positive action. The slogan of this movement is "Early cancer is curable. Fight it with knowledge." The first enlistment week is March 21 to March 27, 1937. The enlistment fee is $1.00. We feel the cause is worthy of whole-hearted support. "Through a series of mass meetings, lectures, radio broadcasts, newspaper and magazine articles, exhibits and distribution of literature, an intensive educational campaign is to be carried on. Nationally known speakers have already enlisted their services to get the MESSAGE OF HOPE to the American people." "A continuous program of education is necessary to rout ignorance and mystery and bring about control of this disease." Those who enlist would like to know how their money is to be spent; 70% will go to the states for activities within the states, 20% to the Central Office in New York City, for expenses involved in the field, 10% to a contingent fund. EDITORIALS 113 Susan B. Anthony FEBRUARY 15th is the 117th anniversary of the birth of Susan B. Anthony, one of the most indefatigable and efficient workers for equal rights for women that has ever lived. When she began her work, only men had the franchise; men had control of the children; men dominated the platform. For over fifty years, Miss Anthony gave her entire time, all her money, all her energy to secure the franchise for women. Her biographer says, "Never for one short hour, has the cause of women been forgotten or put aside for any other object. Never a single tie has been formed, either of affection or of business, which would interfere with this supreme purpose. Never a speech has been given, a trip taken, a visit made, a letter written, in all this half century, that has not been done directly in the interest of this one object. There has been no thought of personal comfort, advancement, or glory; the self-abnegation, the self-sacrifice have been absolute—they have been unparalleled." She lectured in all parts of the country and wrote articles without number. She organized and conducted campaigns. She was present at 29 out of 31 annual conventions of the National Woman's Suffrage Association. She drafted resolutions and circulated petitions. She besieged Congress annually for forty years. She addressed Congressional committees. She raised and expended large sums of money for the cause. Ida H. Harper truly said: "Every girl who now enjoys a college education, every woman who has the chance of earning an honest living in whatever sphere she chooses; every wife who is protected by Jaw in the possession of her person, her property; every mother who is blest with the custody and control of her own children—owes these sacred privileges to Susan B. Anthony beyond all others." To her, too, beyond all others, is due the honor in bringing to women the right of citizenship. Miss Anthony's picture now appears on a new stamp commemorating the 16th anniversary of the Woman's Suffrage Amendment. Women should call for these stamps and every time they use them remember the debt they owe to this good woman. New Books Miss ANNA JOHNSON, widely known because of her work in the Young Woman's Mutual Improvement office, is a most interesting personality. She is always happy, cheery, deeply interested in many things. She has several hobbies, one is writing poetry. She has traveled extensively and on her journeys writes of places, people and things that interest her. Her two latest books are Viking Verse and The Trail of the Exile. Viking Verse shows that there is poetry in everything if one but has the eyes of a poet to see it. These poems were written while she was visiting Norway, the land of her father's birth. She gives the spirit of the Northland. Her themes are about boats, coasts, mountain lakes, pilots, sea- 114 men, fishing towns, harbors, fjords, etc. This book contains some beautifully poetic lines. We quote two of them: THE AGED SEAMAN Upon the tumbling billows of the deep His eyes rest lovingly; He bares his snow-white head to winds and rains That hiss upon the sea. A sort of fierce delight shines in his eyes; He thrills from head to toe. He sets his face against the storm and feels A joy that few men know. BEYOND THE ARCTIC CIRCLE Beyond the Arctic circle, The summer sunshine falls RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE As gentle as the song-sprays From nightbirds' fluting calls. The landscape sways like music By fairy breath caressed, And color floods the night-tide With glories unexpressed. N The Trail of the Exile she portrays the trek of the Pioneer, his character, the indomitable spirit of the Pioneer scout, the sorrows that beset those who made the overland journey, Winter Quarters, and the graves along the way. This volume is beautifully illustrated. Viking Verse, 50c; The Trail of the Exile, 25c; Anna Johnson, Room 32, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. LINCOLN PRAYED By Christie Lund He felt the need to pray And often in life's hurried stress, Or in the calm of everyday He knelt in quiet humbleness. He felt the need, this man Shaping a nation's destiny; And in his each important plan He asked for help on bended knee. Do not we, too, have need, When frightened or dismayed— No matter what our race or creed— To kneel and pray as Lincoln prayed. Lesson Department (For First Week in April) Theology and Testimony Lesson 7 Tue CuRIsT AS ORGANIZER OF A CHURCH Helpful References In the New Testament: Matthew 10; 16:18; 17:1-9; Mark 3:13- 19; Luke 6:12-16; Acts 1:12-26; 13:1; 14:23; John 1:35-50; Luke 10:1-24; Romans 12:4-5; I Corinthians 12:12-31; Ephesians 4: 11-12; Hebrews 5:1-5; I Timothy 3:1, 12; Revelation 1:6. In the Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi 11:18-27; 18:5; 19:4-7; 27:1-11; 4 Nephi 1-5; Moroni 2-6. In the Doctrine and Covenants: Secs. 7:1, 7-8; 10:69 (compare Matthew 16:18); 22:3; 84:107- 108. Talmage: The Articles of Faith, Chapter 11. Talmage: Jesus the Christ, pp. 361- 363, 368, 700-702, 736-738, 741- 42. Rall: The Teachings of Jesus, pp. 95-97, 1. Some Believe that Christ Did Not Organize a Church. To some Latter-day Saints the title of this lesson may seem rather trite and commonplace. They may say, "Have we not been taught all our lives that the Christ organized the Church during His ministry and placed officers in it?' What they say would be true. But we hasten to point out that to many people outside our faith such a title would provoke great interest and surprise. It is, as a matter of fact, quite common to find in current publications statements by scholarly men to the effect that the Savior did not concern himself with organizing a church. One writer says, Ideally... The church is today, a fellowship or community of all who are trying to live as God's children after the spirit of Christ. If we ask for Jesus' teaching concerning this fellowship, we find we have scarcely anything bearing directly upon it. The Gospels give us nowhere any precept from Jesus as to the duty of organizing a church, or directions as to how this shall be done. Nor do the beginnings of the church at Jerusalem imply this. The disciples apparently still consider themselves a part of the Jewish Church, though they assemble themselves together, as would be expected, and look to the twelve for guidance and leadership." At the conclusion of his book, Jesus of Nazareth, Dr. Joseph Kiausner tries to answer the question, What is Jesus to the Jews? He says, "It is somewhat strange to ask, What is Jesus to the Jews? 'Jesus,' says Wellhausen, 'was not a Christian: he was a Jew,' and, as a Jew, his life-story is that of one of the prominent men of the Jews of his time, while his teaching is Jewish teaching of a kind remarkable in its truth and its imaginativeness. 'Jesus was not a Christian,' but he became a Christian. His teaching and his history have been severed from Israel. To this day the Jews have never accepted him.... But Jesus is, for the Jewish nation, a great teacher of morality and an artist in 116 parable. He is the moralist for whom, in the religious life, morality counts as—everything." Dr. Klausner, a Jew, is one of the most influential and celebrated Hebrew scholars of our day. No one can miss some of the implications in the statement quoted above. The Savior "became a Christian' not because he organized a Church, but because his teaching and his history were severed from its Jewish environment. Such teaching about the Christ is important for Latter-day Saints to know. If we are to make the message of the Church very effective it becomes necessary for us to present the principles of the Gospel in a way that takes cognizance of the beliefs of others. 2. Our Church Organization gives Insight to the Organization in the Prinutive Church. If the Christ, during His lifetime, set up a Church, we should reasonably expect it to be of a pattern that would be in fundamentals, at least, the same for all time. Local conditions might change, it is true, but a relatively perfect Church organization ought to provide for that. In other words, we should expect the Church on earth to be patterned in fundamentals after that in heaven. Such we believe the Church organization in this dispensation to be. The pattern we have ought, then, to give us an insight into any similar organization set-up in the Savior's lifetime. Let us, therefore, look at some of the New Testament references that concern our problem. 3. Christ Aided by Distinct Bodies of Men. It will be noted that when the Christ's ministry actually began he saw the need of calling others to His side to help him. The tenth chapter of Matthew records their names and the charge He gave them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In the first verse it is recorded that "he called unto him his twelve disciples, he gave them power against unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease." The word here translated as "power" is best rendered by "authority." That better expresses the matter. One ought to read this chapter carefully. The charges given by the Christ to his apostles are not such as would be given by an ordinary leader to his followers. They were given by one speaking with authority and not as the scribes. Why would such unusual charges be given if the Christ had only a fellowship with his apostles in mind and not a Church organization? The tenth chapter of Luke is also of peculiar significance. In the first verse of this chapter we read, "after these things the' Lord appointed other seventy also, and sent them two and two before his face." The seventy are also mentioned in the seventeenth verse where, after their return, they rejoiced over their successful mission, and especially because of the authority which was theirs. This group of seventy would seem to be a quorum of men distinct from the twelve apostles. In this dispensation the Lord has made it plain that there are in the Church among others, two distinct bodies of officers in the higher priesthood, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and the Quorum of Seventy. We should note, too, the special place Peter, James, and John held in the organization with which the Savior surrounded himself. In the seventeenth chapter of Matthew is the record of how they were in the presence of the Christ when he was transfigured, The Prophet Joseph Smith tells us that on this occasion these three men received certain keys of authority. In LESSON DEPARTMENT the Epistle to the Galatians 2:9 two of them are spoken of as "pillars." The prominent role played by Peter, James, and John shortly after the Savior's resurrection would seemingly correspond with that displayed by the First Presidency in the Church today. It is necessary, however, to turn to literature in the New Testament other than the Gospels to see the Primitive Church organization in greater completeness. Doubtless the pattern was given by the Christ during his ministry. Some would object to this statement by saying that the Church organization portrayed in the Epistles reflects nothing more or less than the Apostle Paul's genius. Indeed, many conclude that Christianity is essentially "Pauline Christianitv." From this conclusion we respectfully dissent; Paul and the other apostles of his time simply built up the Church as they had previously been directed by their Redeemer. "And he gave some apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ." (Ephesians 4:11, 12.) Questions 1. Which Article of Faith of the Church expresses our belief with 117 respect to the organization of the Primitive Church? Repeat it.; 2. How many different offices of the Priesthood can you find mentioned in the New Testament? The Book of Mormon? Cite references for each. 3. What is meant by an "evangelist?" (Iephesians 4:11) Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.) 1. Give as many plausible reasons as you can why the writers of the Gospels did not more clearly portray the Church organization set up by the Savior. 2. Some people hold that churches are unnecessary, that men can live as good lives without them as with them. Justify, if you can, the existence of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 3. By reference to the New Testament answer as well as you can the assertion that the organization of the early Christian Church was due more to the genius of Paul than to that of Christ. Hint—See Ephesians 4:11, etc. C 4. Read carefully 3 Nephi 27:1 11. What reasonable conclusions can be reached from this scripture respecting the establishment of a church in Palestine during the Savior's ministry? Teachers' Topic (For April) THE PHARISEE AND THE PUBLICAN Luke 18:9-14 ND he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others: "Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican. "The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners 118 unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. "I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. "And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. "I say unto you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted." This was spoken to or about certain persons who trusted in themselves, that they were righteous. The two worshipers were taken from the most distinguished and the most despised classes of the Jews, a Pharisee and a publican. The Pharisees were a prominent religious sect among the Jews. They felt themselves to be separated from other men and from the unclean in their own nation. They were respected as citizens of high standing. They were pious observers of the law and this strict adherence to small points often led to hypocrisy and self-glorification. Christ found on many occasions much to condemn in their actions and their attitudes toward others. The publicans were collectors of taxes for the government. They leased certain districts and had to raise a certain amount of money from them. It was necessary to impose extra taxes in order to get pay for their own services. As a result they were very unpopular.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The time was a special hour of prayer for the Israelites and all had the privilege of the temple. The Pharisee drew himself apart from the crowd and began "I thank thee." He numbered his virtues and good deeds. The publican was the picture of humility. He stood "afar off," his prayer was one of confession and entreaty. The Lord drew from the parable the suitable lesson that the proud shall be humbled and the humble exalted.
This lesson of humility of heart is the chief end of the parable. It brings peace and love to ourselves and justification in the sight of God. The "I say unto you" makes it clear that humility is an indispensable virtue.
The immediate purpose of the parable of the Pharisee and the Publican was to denounce the false profession of the Pharisee and to approve the sincerity and toleration of the publican. Papini in his "Life of Christ" says, "Sinners when they recognize the evil which is in their hearts and abjure it with true humility, are nearer to the kingdom than pious men who daub themselves with praise of their own piety."
Humility is not self depreciation or lack of enthusiasm. One may be dignified and courageous and still humble.
"He that is down needs fear no fall, He that is low, no pride; He that is humble ever shall Have God to be his guide."
LESSON DEPARTMENT 119
Work and Business (For April)
SEEDS AND PLANTS
IN this short lesson in amateur gardening we will not go into detail about the preparation of the soil as we presume it has been well dug, fertilized, and pulverized, as these simple preparations are very essential. We shall discuss the beauty and satisfaction of having borders of some of the best known and least expensive of all flowers.
Spring: To have an effective Spring border it is necessary to plant in the late summer or early fall. The prettiest one I have ever seen was made of a broad band of forget-me-nots in the close background, with double lemon tulips, "Murillo," in center and a broad strip of Arabis in front touching the lawn. The tulips and arabis will be good for years and the forget-me-nots will seed themselves year after year. Pansies are beautiful in place of the tulips and should be set out in September. Pansy seedlings may be purchased at your seedsman's before they have been transplanted into his cold frame at 1½ cents each.
Summer: Summer borders are easily grown with a minimum of expense and labor. A great favorite is one made of French marigolds in the foreground, then a close bank of scarlet sage with the tall snow-on-the-mountain in the rear. The green foliage of all of these plants is as attractive as the flowers which are born in almost unbelievable profusion. No garden is complete without a row of golden gleam nasturtium. These flowers are double, fragrant, with long stems and are unsurpassed for picking. They bloom from July first to the time of killing frost. If you have a sunny walk in the back yard be sure to have a gorgeous bank of four-o'clocks on each side of it.
Early Fall: Zinnias and African marigolds make a bold, showy tall border and are at their best when planted alone with plenty of space.
All of these seeds are easy to germinate, easy to grow, and remain fresh and in bloom from late spring until late fall.
Perennial borders are a lasting joy, but it takes years to establish one that is really beautiful unless a great amount of money is invested.
Literature (For Third Week in April)
Lesson VII JULIA WARD HOWE
THERE is the sharpest possible contrast between the life of Lincoln and that of Julia Ward Howe, and very much of a contrast between her life and that of Alice Freeman Palmer. Julia Ward Howe had behind her wealth and station as well as gifts of both body and mind. Lincoln and Alice Freeman Palmer were richly endowed both mentally and spiritually. Julia Ward had as ancestors on
120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
both sides the best blood that America had to offer. Her father, Samuel Ward, was a New York banker. Her mother, Julia Rush Cutler, who was married at sixteen, died at twenty-seven, having had seven children. Mr. Ward felt he could not longer live in the house where he and his wife had been so happy; so he moved to No. 16, Bond Street, which was out of the beaten path of the city. Mrs. Ward had asked that her sister should have the care of her children, so Aunt Eliza, who seems to have been a very cheerful person, came to the Ward home. Julia, who bore her mother's name, and was born May 27, 1819, was then a child.
"The amusements of the little Wards were few" we are told. As a child of seven Julia was taken twice to the opera, where she heard Malibran, then Signorina Garcia, a pleasure the memory of which remained with her through life. About this time Mr. Ward's views of religious duty deepened in stringency and in gloom. There was no more opera, nor did Julia ever attend a theatre until she was a grown woman."
When she was sixteen the family moved from No. 16 Bond Street, into a "statelier dwelling," on Bond Street and Broadway. This was the house Julia loved, the memory of which was dear to her throughout her life. She often recalled the spacious rooms hung with red, blue, and yellow silk. Behind the main house stretching along Broadway, was the picture gallery, the first private one in New York, which was said to be the father's "especial pride." "The children might not mingle in frivolous gayety abroad, but they should have all that love, taste, and money could give them at home."
Julia studied both vocal and instrumental music. With her music was a passion. Her music master, Signor Cardini, "trained and developed her inborn taste for all that was best in music." He also discovered that she had a good voice. It was a mezzo-soprano, "of uncommon range and exquisite quality."
She was always a student. She possessed a veritable gift for language. She is said to have known English, French, German and Italian. "She spoke and wrote them throughout her life correctly as well as fluently, with singularly pure accent and inflection. She was also proficient in history. She had no gift for mathematics, and used to say that her knowledge of the subject "was limited to the fact that four quarts make a gallon."
Julia's girlhood evenings were spent mostly at home, with books, needlework, and music, varied by an occasional lecture or concert, or a visit to some one of the uncles who lived nearby. But much as she loved her home, her books, and her music, she longed for some of the social life her three handsome brothers were enjoying. She wrote she seemed to herself "like a young damsel of olden times shut up within an enchanted castle," and for all her father's kindness, "noble generosity and overwhelming affection," as she puts it, he "sometimes appeared to me as my jailer."
She was now nineteen, a woman grown and feeling it. She had never had a party of her own, nor had she ever selected the people who were to come to the home for an evening. She grew rebellious and told her brothers that she was going to have a party. She asked them to help her make out lists, but said the responsibility was solely her own. She asked her father if she might invite a few friends on a certain evening, and he gave his consent.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 121
She engaged the best caterer in New York, the most fashionable musicians, and even hired a splendid cut-glass chandelier to supplement the sober lighting of the yellow drawing-room.
The evening of the party Mr. Ward stepped into the group and discovered "as brilliant a gathering as could have been found in any other of the great houses of New York." If he was amazed or annoyed he concealed it and met the guests with "charming courtesy."
When the party was over Julia's brothers gathered about her asking that they be allowed to go to her father on her behalf, but she insisted that it was her place to see him. She sought and found him alone. She could not speak, nor was it necessary that she should. He told her "gravely" that her idea of a few friends and his was very different, that "he was sorry that she had not consulted him more freely, and begged that in the future she would do so. Then he kissed her good-night with his usual tenderness and it was over."
Then followed days when there were many admirers. An intimate friend speaking of this time said: "Louisa had her admirers, and Annie had hers; but when the men saw your mother they just flopped!" She was "compassionate" with her suitors but she at least could not marry them all, "so she sang duets with one, read German with another, and Anglo-Saxon with a third."
The United States was struggling with a financial panic in 1836-1837. It called for all the strength that men had. Mr. Ward labored incessantly to save the honor of the banks of New York; but disaster came and the banks were obliged "to suspend specie payments." Still Samuel Ward was not a man to waste time in vain regrets. He began at once to arrange things so that the banks could resume without unnecessary delay. This was accomplished in a year's time, through the Bank of England granting a loan of nearly five million dollars in gold. Mrs. Howe never forgot the afternoon when her brother Sam came into her study from Wall Street and cried: "Julia, men have been going up and down the office stairs all day long, carrying little wooden kegs of gold on their backs marked 'Prime Ward and King' and filled with English gold!" The honor of New York State was preserved through the English gold. The fact that Mr. Ward procured the loan "was the greatest asset in her inheritance from the old firm," Mrs. Howe said.
In October, 1839, the beloved father passed away—that father who had fought so hard for financial honor, who had nurtured his children with great devotion if somewhat strictly through his long widowerhood. "Julia was with him when he died, his hand in hers." Her love for her father was most constant and ceased only with her life. Yearly she recorded his birthday in her diary never failing to add words "of tender remembrance."
In the summer of 1842 the Ward sisters were in a cottage near Boston. With them was a friend, Mary Ward, who was no relation but had been betrothed to their brother Henry. Here they often received visits from Charles Sumner and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Julia had heard of Mr. Howe's wonderful feat in educating Laura Bridgman. The young women were invited by their friends from Boston to visit the Perkins Institution for the blind, over which Mr. Howe had been director for nine years. As they walked about the institution, says Julia,
122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Mr. Sumner looked out of the window and said: "Oh! Here comes Howe on his black horse." She looked out, she says, and saw "A noble rider on a noble steed."
Their acquaintance ripened into good will and during the winter of 1843 they became engaged. Mr. Howe is described as having a "slender military figure, jet-black hair, keen blue eyes" and a "brilliant complexion." To this we add a picture of their courting days, from a private journal of the time. "I walked down Broadway with all the fashion and met the pretty blue-stocking, Miss Julia Ward, with her admirer, Dr. Howe, just home from Europe. She had on a blue satin cloak and a white muslin dress... They say she dreams in Italian and quotes French verse."
Of special interest is Mr. Sumner's letter to her, written after he had learned of her engagement. Mr. Sumner wrote:
"Howe has told me, with eyes flashing with joy, that you have received his love. May God make you happy in his heart, as I know he will be happy in yours! A truer heart was never offered to woman. I know him well. I know the depth, strength, and constancy of his affections, as the whole world knows the beauty of his life and character. And oh! How I rejoice that these are all to mingle in loving harmony with your great gifts of heart and mind. God bless you! God bless you both! You will strengthen each other for the duties of life; and the most beautiful happiness of life shall be yours—that derived from inextinguishable mutual love, and from the consciousness of duty done."
"You have accepted my dear Howe as your lover; pray let me ever be your most affectionate friend, Charles Sumner."
To her brother Sam who had married into the Astor family she wrote: "The Chevalier says truly—I am the captive of his bow and spear. His true devotion has won me from the world, and from myself. The past is already fading from my sight; already, I begin to live with him in the future, which shall be as calmly bright as true love can make it. I am perfectly satisfied to sacrifice to one so noble and earnest the day dreams of my youth. He will make life more beautiful to me than a dream."
The wedding took place at her brother Samuel Ward's home on April 23, 1843. Ten days later the bride and groom sailed for Europe. Horace Mann and his bride, Mary Peabody, sister of Mrs. Nathaniel Hawthorne, were on the same boat. Mrs. Howe wrote: She never should forget the stay in London. "Dr. Howe's reputation preceded him and every reader of 'Dickens' American Notes' was eager to meet the man who had brought a soul out of prison." Charles Dickens had taken them out sightseeing, and Sidney Smith had been very kind. Sydney Smith "calls Howe 'Prometheus,' and says that he gave a soul to an inanimate body."
Questions
1. To what forces do you attribute Mr. Ward's aversion to the theatre? Why was his daughter not given an opportunity for more social contacts at home and away from home?
2. Do you think Julia solely at fault for the elaborate party given in her father's home? Do you think her father should share part of the blame? Discuss the situation as a problem in rearing children.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 123
3. Do you feel in the lesson something of the pulse of New York when it was growing into a city of wealth? What are the details that point toward it?
4. What do you think of Sumner's letter to Miss Ward? Is there in it some promise of the man Sumner afterwards turned out to be? Would you like to see this letter in a collection of literary letters? If so, why? If not, why? What do you learn concerning Mr. Howe from the letter?
5. Who was Laura Bridgman? What did Dr. Howe do for her that caused people far and near to discuss the matter?
6. Who was Prometheus?
Note: Additional material may be found in "Julia Ward Howe," by Richards and Elliott.
Social Service (For Fourth Week in April)
Lesson VI SOCIAL PROGRESS
Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chapter XVI.
ONE of the goals of a socially minded people is to improve the general conditions under which humanity lives. But at times it is extremely difficult to determine how existing methods of control over human behavior should be modified with the hope of bettering conditions for those who are influenced by them. However, new situations and problems are constantly being projected for consideration and adjustment along such lines. Civilization is so complex it is difficult to get a standard for the measure of progress. As each succeeding year passes it is hard to evaluate the immediate effect of what has transpired upon human happiness. We speak freely about social progress. But what is the yardstick by which change may be measured in the adjustment of humanity to racial problems and institutions in its forward achievements and in its retrogressions, or backward movements?
A comparison of life today to that which existed in an average community with comparable situations five hundred years ago, would leave no doubt as to the superiority of modern conditions. The basis for judgment which leads to this conclusion will be discussed in this lesson by developing the following points:
1. Acquiring some understanding of the meaning of social progress.
2. The application of the principles of social progress to our own lives and community problems with the hope of promoting desirable interest in social welfare.
The factors which help to determine social progress may be divided into two general classifications: first, those which condition human behavior; and second, those which develop control over the forces, or gifts, of nature for man's purpose.
"Conditioning" human behavior means influencing the emotions, or feelings, towards a sense of gratification and happiness, or towards one of unrest, discontent, and the reverse of happiness, as well as the intermediary stages between these two extremes. Therefore, all the
124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
institutions which man has set up for the control of human behavior might be included in those which condition social control. The machinery for government, for education, and for the supervision of health and of crime, and of all aesthetic developments are among the conditioning factors. Any change which tends to raise the general level of these institutions for the ultimate benefit of mankind leans towards social progress. If time proves that the change actually produces an improved state it may be classified as social progress.
There is undoubtedly room for progress along all the lines mentioned above and in all conditioning factors. But only by understanding the necessity for such changes and by supporting the movements which are planned for progress, can it be achieved. For example: In spite of all the work that is being done towards its eradication, the existence of such things as crime, juvenile delinquency, and the exploitation of one level of humanity for the benefit of another are still prevalent. Unequal industrial opportunity is the source of much unhappiness. Political opportunism leads to unfair advantages for some at the expense of others. As long as any of these conditions exist there is room for progress.
There is still much to be accomplished in the improvement of the physical and mental condition of the race. Although much has been done to protect man from disease and to conserve human life, as the lower death rate proves, physical efficiency can still be increased tremendously through an increased application of scientific knowledge. Vital statistics are often quoted to show a favorable increase in births and a low death rate. Such conditions are indeed important, but some nations with exceptionally high birth rates are in an extremely unprogressive state. But though good health records may be indicative of favorable conditions, some of the essential elements of life may be lacking. However, any nation that can produce a high statistical curve in health records can be said to have made great social progress.
The laws under which we live; the services of federal, state, and city governments; the basic institutions which affect daily life, such as educational and cultural institutions; the inventions which alter modes of living, and even the kinds of clothes we wear and the food we eat, undergo continuous modification. Some of these changes may have marked a backward step and some may have produced a stationary condition, but most of them have given rise to forward movements in the patterns of human life. But since it is so difficult to judge what is of real benefit to the continuous development of the race, it might again be said that the test lies in the state of general welfare and happiness that is eventually attained. But since life is so complex and such multiple factors condition happiness, often false standards of progress are set up with the mistaken idea that they will lead to joy and betterment. Calling attention to some of these mistaken ideas should help to prevent their recurrence, and to develop more balanced judgment in determining what changes should take place.
A frequent error is the assumption that an increase in wealth and economic goods is a measure of progress. Although wealth is important, it can be a source of misery as well as happiness. If progress is to be
LESSON DEPARTMENT 125
measured by the increased service of wealth in behalf of humanity, it must be understood that the term "wealth" refers to those commodities which satisfy human wants and not to the amount of money a single individual has. Progress depends upon the use to which wealth is put, both nationally and individually. In and of itself it may be worthless as a means of happiness. To support social progress its use has to be directed according to the best understanding that economic and social leaders can bring to bear upon its dispensing and use. Such an understanding cannot be better defined than national ideals permit. This is an example of what is meant by the necessity for the general public to have an understanding of the meaning of social progress, because a nation depends upon its citizens for its level of achievement in all directions.
In regard to the use of wealth for social progress, it can hardly be devoted to a higher means than the provision of better houses, better clothing, a more adequate food supply, and greater conveniences and pleasures for the advancement of humanity at large. Such a wide distribution of the benefits of wealth cannot be brought about without an extension of ideals and education in that direction. How it is to be managed is as yet unsolved. But as long as some people accumulate more money than they need for even a luxurious standard of life, and others have much less than they need for the necessities of life the problem of the use and distribution of wealth will remain a challenge to those interested in social progress. However, it is desirable to present this ideal, because when even a small number of people become aware of the fact that such an ideal is worth striving for as a means of supporting democratic governments, religious organizations, and other prevailing institutions in the countries that these lessons serve, education towards social progress has undoubtedly been stimulated.
Mention should be made of the great influence that education, science, and the arts have as conditioning factors in influencing human behavior. They come to people almost as gifts because they are available to every one who cares to take advantage of the opportunities offered at his very door; but they should not be taken too much for granted. None of them are either all good or all bad in their influence as "conditioners." Any one of these factors may be used either towards progress or retrogression. In addition to the great benefit that education is to mankind, it may teach false standards. Art and all supposedly cultural subjects may be evil in their influence. Science may tear down spiritual and religious values. But none of them need to. And it is the responsibility of those who are interested in social progress to obtain an understanding of what will lead to progress along these lines according to the highest meaning that he is capable of understanding. But the layman cannot do this alone. All these conditioning factors can be bettered only through proficient and specialized leadership in the fields mentioned, and with the intelligent cooperation on the part of the layman. We should seek spiritual guidance for the benefit of social progress through prayer and through contact with our religious teachers and officers. It is of vital importance, and its fulfillment depends upon those who are privileged to obtain an understanding of its meaning.
126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
In the second classification, progress is measured by man's control over physical nature. His comforts and scientific progress in life are measured according to his increasing ability to bend nature to his ends instead of adapting himself to its rigors and unmodified necessities. But, the extent to which he has adapted his great utilization of nature's gifts to the welfare of all mankind reveals how far he has moved towards social progress. For scientific progress is not identical with social progress and does not necessarily imply social progress. In fact, the two are quite separate. Only so far as the marvelous results which have been accomplished in adapting nature to man's needs have been devoted to the benefit of all mankind can a nation be said to have advanced towards social progress. Such progress presupposes a certain amount of idealism; therefore a combination of such idealism with scientific knowledge is necessary to the general progress of humanity.
Natural energy, such as water power and electricity have been captured and reduced to man's needs. Great irrigation projects have been devised. The discovery of radium has transformed medical treatment. Other scientific discoveries have done much for the preservation of health and the prolongation of life. Research in chemistry has contributed greatly to industrial efficiency, and has thus added to the comfort of life. Each instance tells the story of increased control over natural phenomena. Any nation is civilized only to the extent that man has mastered nature and turned it to his use. And again, it has achieved social progress only to the extent that these benefits are devoted to all its members.
All the above factors are units on the measuring stick of human progress. Their test is proved by time in terms of human welfare and greater happiness.
The second purpose of this lesson directs attention to the advancement of social progress through the improvement of those conditions over which each individual has control.
The development of a sound progressive system of education is one of the first essentials. Each generation must be brought into touch with the social inheritance of the race. But the transmission of the cumulative knowledge of the past is but one part of the responsibility of education. It has been pointed out that the improvement of life demands the growth of knowledge and its proper utilization. A continual readjustment of education to fit social needs is essential. It must always aim toward moralizing life. The mind must be liberated from ignorance, intolerance, and social prejudice.
The Lord has said: "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (P. of G. P.: Moses 1:39) Such a goal is the ultimate end of all progress. As members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints our responsibility is doubly great. Not only are we obligated to maintain the social achievements contributed by civilization, but in addition our goal is set for the "eternal life and immortality" of all mankind. Such ideology carries increased obligations and duties to church members.
Each member of the Church should strive to promote and harmonize the finest intellectual, cultural, and economic achievements of the race. He should advance the spiritual salvation of all through a more meaningful participation in the ordinances and prin-
LESSON DEPARTMENT 127
ciples of the gospel. To this end the effectiveness of one's actions must be tested by altruistic motives. He should cooperate with the social achievements of the race and be active in promoting the progress of the church in its march toward its goal.
There is probably not a ward in the church but what needs more help in promoting social ideals. Intelligent leadership toward goals which do not get lost in the multitude of daily tasks is called for. More religious toleration, more altruism, more spirituality is needed at home and at the church gathering, as well as in the world at large.
Activities
Outline a plan by which you would try to overcome some of the obstacles to social progress in your own ward or community. In most communities many people are apathetic toward community enterprises and reform movements. Devise a scheme for getting people in your community interested in some needed project.
Compare the present characteristics and achievements of your community with conditions of from ten to fifteen years ago. On the basis of the comparison decide if the community has been as progressive as it should have been.
Child Guidance
Lesson 7 HOW TO ADMINISTER REWARDS AND PUNISHMENTS
FEW policies in child guidance are more difficult to settle on than what to do about punishment. Some parents lay great store by the doctrine, "Spare the rod and spoil the child." Others base all their hope on love and forgiveness, and on allowing the child complete freedom. In recent years, our attitude has swung toward the latter point of view, which William James called "soft pedagogy." Probably the answer is not yet, and the proper place of punishment may be more clearly recognized in the future. Certainly too little discipline and too much coddling frequently defeats the mother's fine intentions of rearing her child into a happy adult. On the other hand, there can be no doubt that the use of corporal punishment is to be discouraged in general. This is not because it is never of value, but because it is so difficult for parents to properly determine when and how it should be used. Felix Adler claims corporal punishment makes criminals, and we often do find in the histories of delinquents that flogging is the principal resort of the parents in disciplining the child. Yet in other cases we find that the most striking factor contributing to incorrigibility is the utter lack of any effort on the part of the parents to correct the behavior of their children. Under the latter kind of treatment, misbehavior often sprouts like weeds in an uncultivated garden.
In psychological literature on learning, we always have with us some attempt to describe or explain why we retain successful acts and eliminate unsuccessful ones. Thorndike, in his famous work on educational psychology in 1914, taught the doctrine that successful acts are
128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
retained because they are more satisfying or more pleasurable and that unsuccessful ones are eliminated because they are annoying or unpleasant. Somehow the satisfyingness or unsatisfyingness were thought to "stamp in" the right act and "stamp out" the wrong one respectively. This was called the "law of effect." It meant that whether the effect of the act is pleasant or unpleasant determines whether it will be retained or not. This "law" has been under much fire in recent years, because of certain issues we shall not take space to discuss here. A later version of the doctrine, based on much experimentation, holds that the effect of an act, or its consequences, may consist simply in knowing what the result is, regardless of whether it is pleasant or not. It is now fairly well agreed that learning does not take place without this knowledge of the effect of the separate acts involved. Much of the learning of children in social relations, and moral as well, is extremely slow because the effects of the acts are not clearly seen. Manipulating the social environment does not yield such clear effects of acts as does manipulating a toy automobile.
Thorndike has recently given evidence that seems to indicate that rewards lead to learning and that punishments have very little to do with it. We build habits out of the acts that seem to lead us most directly to our goals. Punished acts, according to Thorndike, are not eliminated by the punishment itself but are selected out by substitution of right acts with their rewards. Animals, such as white rats, will not learn to tread a maze properly if they are not motivated by some strong urge such as hunger. If food is not found at the end of the hungry rat's quest, it doesn't learn the maze even though it is permitted to explore the maze all it pleases. When the reward is found without exception, the rat learns a complicated maze in the course of thirty or forty trials, so well that it makes no error. The goal seeking of the small child is much the same. If the result obtained is not agreeable to him he is not likely to persist in that act. Moreover, the reward must follow immediately after or it may lose its connection with the right act.
Here the immature child is caught in a dilemma: much of the routine he is expected to follow doesn't seem to make sense. The parent then becomes tempted to hold out candy, stories, toys, and other rewards to bribe the child into doing what should be done for its own sake. Recently a mother reported that her child would not attend to his toilet unless she gave him candy at the same time. Perhaps younger children do need more than older ones such extrinsic rewards. As the child grows, he can be motivated more and more by remote incentives such as social approval, self-respect, and other less apparent values that accrue from a well regulated life.
Parents make two general uses of rewards: first and most commonly, to get things done; second, to teach the child proper habits. The first method teaches the child to do what is required for the sake of rewards which have no relation to the act. The unhappy result is that unless an artificial goal is set up thereafter, the act is not done. The second use of rewards requires deep insight into what is going on in the child's mind. The reward is then carefully calculated to grow out of the act as a natural consequence. The child who has done a good job of washing his face
LESSON DEPARTMENT 129
is told modestly that he looks nice because that is one of the main reasons we should keep clean (social approval). When the child has behaved bravely at the dentist's he might be given some special favor; but he should not be promised it before as a bribe. If you promise rewards, the heroic act, the good impulse that might have originated in the child is defeated because the act then becomes directed toward the bribe rather than toward the value of the act itself.
Parents must also guard against setting up for the child an artificial social world in the home. Overgenerous praise by parents may become a handicap for the child when he attempts to find his way in the wider, and less generous, social world out of the home. An overinflated opinion of one's self may be a serious impediment throughout life. The considerate parent will choose to be sympathetic and encouraging to the growing child by giving a measure of praise not too incompatible with what life is to be like out of the home.
While a safe rule with regard to praise is to be somewhat conservative, it is still more important to consider carefully the meaning to the child of punishments administered. "Let the outcomes of acts do the punishing," like every rule, is valuable only when seasoned with a good measure of discretion. True, the child must learn that fire burns by sooner or later suffering a burn, that interference with the play of other children brings slaps, and that not attending to the toilet brings a disagreeable situation; but no one would contend that it is necessary to let the natural consequences of pulling down boiling pans of water, crossing crowded highways, and putting hands into wringers administer their own punishments. A certain amount of warning and careful watching on the part of parents would prevent some of the terrific toll from accidents of this kind to the preschool child. Prompt and uncamouflaged rebuke is sometimes the natural consequence of an act and should be so taught.
One famous psychologist a number of years ago believed in permitting his children to do as they pleased always. On one occasion a new grand piano was purchased for the home. The parents were away at the time it was delivered. When they returned the boys were casually carving up the legs and walls with their pocket knives. They were still permitted to do as they pleased. This is obviously freedom carried to an absurd extreme.
One great danger in the use of punishment is that it is too likely to be administered in anger. Punishment in anger is not given for the education of the child, but to vent the mother's or father's anger. It accomplishes just that, and in addition is likely to make the child resentful. For punishment to be effective, as already pointed out, it must follow promptly upon the misdeed and the child must be made to see immediately the connection between his act and the punishment. Sometimes we hear "Just wait 'till your father comes home, Young Man." Father is given the disagreeable task of laying on the stripes. Is there any wonder that the boy who is a victim of this treatment intensely dislikes and fears his father? The lesson drilled into such a boy is "Be sure not to get caught next time." It cannot be emphasized too strongly that punishment of this kind does not correct the faults at which it is directed. Few faults are so serious that we should 130 wittingly exchange them for deceitfulness and loss of cooperation with the child. More will be said in a subsequent lesson, under the title, "Parent-Child Relations," as to how seriously punishment affects cooperation.' One of our fine mission presidents once called in a missionary because of misconduct and said in the course of his rebuke, "Brother, I love you with all my heart; but I hate your damnable sin." This incident illustrates a fine point which is applicable to children: Learn to distinguish between the act and the child. If a child tells a falsehood, he should not be called a "liar." He has simply told a falsehood, but we should not generalize him into a lost soul. Many slight acts cause serious consequences, i. e., a child bouncing a ball into a precious vase. The act should be evaluated psychologically—in terms of what the child's intentions were, and what his reaction is to his mistake—rather than economically or materially, before determining what the treatment should be. This is hard doctrine to follow; since the more serious the material or social consequences of misbehavior, the more violent is the anger of the parent and the more lively the punishment is likely to be. Whenever punishment must be administered, the child should be made to feel that the love of the parent has not been irreparably lost. Joseph Smith taught the proper procedure when he spoke through revelation: "No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile—reproving betimes with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy." (D. & C. 121:41-43.) In conclusion the following principles are suggested for consideration by the class: 1. Let rewards and punishments be natural consequences of acts so far as is consistent with common sense. The more intrinsic the incentives, the less need for extrinsic rewards or punishments. 2. Don't lecture until your words wear out. Emerson said, "How do you expect me to believe what you say when what you are thunders so loudly in my ears I can't hear you." Make few threats, and make only those that can be carried out to the letter. 3. Plan a program for the child that allows for a proper balance between freedom and regulation, Minimize the need for punishments by providing normal outlets for the child's activity. 4. Be consistent in your program. Make an agreement with others cooperating in the care of the child on some definite procedure, and then hold to it. Don't laugh at a child for pranks today and thrash him for the same acts tomorrow. Try to agree among yourselves on methods of discipline so that the child cannot find a retreat in the other: parent or relative in the home. No discipline can be effective when the parents are at cross purposes on the procedure. 5. Make punishment consistent with the psychological nature of the act. Watch for tendencies in the child that indicate he wants punishment in order to be the center of the stage. Isolation is the best cure for this behavior. LESSON DEPARTMENT 6. Don't punish in anger, because a competition is set up between the ' parent and the child that obscures in the minds of both just what is the meaning of the punishment. See that the child comes to dislike what he has done, not to dislike you or himself. 7. Don't praise so lavishly that a faulty evaluation of self is developed. Problems for Discussion 1. What are the objections to the doctrine "Spare the rod and spoil the child?" 131 2. Distinguish between extrinsic and intrinsic rewards. 3. Why does most corporal punishment fail to accomplish its purpose? 4. Why do artificial rewards, bribes, fail in their purpose? 5. Point out some exceptions to the rule, "Let the consequences of the acts themselves do the punishing." 6. What is the danger of overpraising the child in the home? What is the danger of never giving encouragement? Notes to the Field (Continued from page 109) Speeding Up Social Progress WE must come to realize that society is not static, not fixed in the course it has long followed. We must realize that society is dynamic, full of drive, energy, motion; in one way or another social conditions are always changing. What may we as Relief Society women do? I take my answer from the talk, "A Present Day Challenge," given by a Stake Board Member in our recent conference-conventions. "Woman's Place." 'Never before in American history have women had such an opportunity to make their influence felt as in these changing social and business conditions, when the whole world cries for peace and security." a. Woman's scope has broadened. In order to protect her own home she must go outside of it to study the influences that threaten its security. B. Women must interest themselves in activities that affect their homes: public-health; recreation; discipline; child-welfare; social security; sanitation; education; temperance. It takes united and intelligent effort to accomplish results. In this speeding up of Social Progress is this not our challenge? "White House Conference," page 133—2nd paragraph; pages 347-348, "The Child and the Church." 1936 Index HE index for 1936 is now ready, price 10c. Those desiring their magazines bound through this office may have cloth binding including index for $1.50 and leather binding including index for $2.00. Magazine Drive W E print these additional reports as we did not have the information needed to include them with those published in the December Magazine. There will be no more reports published until after the next Drive. We are sorry these Agents did not get their reports in on time to receive the free Magazine subscriptions. We regret that the name of the Magazine Agent of the Washington Branch was not given in our December report. It should have been Frances Naylin Stephens. Ward Hurtsville Branch Carey Grand Forks Branch No. Dak. Dist. Firth Chinook Branch, Milk River District Jamestown Branch, Erie District Veyo Sparks Branch, Nevada District Tacoma Branch Belle Fourche, So. Dakota Branch Pomona Samaria Mt. Trumbull Erie Branch, Erie District Palmyra Branch, Cumorah District Buffalo Branch, Cumorah District Pima St. George East Shelley First Leeds Tetonia West Seattle Branch, West Wash. Dist. Ivins Lynn-Salem Branch, Mass. Dist. Bozeman Branch, Yellowstone Dist. Pine Valley Santa Clara Toponce Fall River Branch, Mass. Dist. Gunlock Scranton Branch, Susquehanna Dist. Eastern States Mission No. No. Stake Enr. Sub. 9% Magazine Agent Australian Mission 9 14 156 Violet Coo No. Central States Mis. 9 11 122 Lottie Lehew Shelley 35 41 117 Ada Johnson No. Central States Mis. 23 26 113 Della Lott Eastern States Mission 16 17 106 J. M. Applebee Northwestern Sts. Mis. 49 50 102 Elsie M. Sweet San Bernardino 16 16 100 Edyth Mutch Eastern States Mis. 12 11 92 Madeline Scott Eastern States Mis. 10 9 90 Grace H. Warnke St. George 65 57 8&8 Effie Syphus Shelley 71 61 & Esther Christensen Teton 26 21 81 Ruby Hogan Marguerite Engebret No. Western Sts. Mis. 16 13 81 son St. George 15 12 80 Clara Martinson No. Central Sts. Mis. 14 11 79 Marie J. Monson St. George 13. 10 77 Effie M. Snow Eastern States Mission 4 3. 75 Laura West Eastern States Mission 4 3 75 Ella Brown 287 351 122 Grace S. Colton Blaine St. George California Mission Western States Mission 8 Malad St. George Eastern States Mis. St. Joseph St. George Eastern States Mission 10 St. George Idaho St. George 70 143 Virginia Eldredge 17, 18 106 Mildred Bowler 46 48 104 Hortense Shupe 8 100 Sadie Meridith 56 56 100 Jennie Peterson 13. 12 92 Annie Van Leuven 11 10 91 Maude S. Collins 122 110 90 Blanch Peterson 32. 26 81 Hazel H. McMullin 8 80 Gertrude E. Fogg 44 34 77 Otillia E. Tobler 13. 10 76 Hazel Davids 16 12 75 Beatrice Leavitt Recipes By Extension Division of the University of Idaho Paradise Pudding 1 lb. Marshmallows 1 medium can pineapple 1 c. English walnut meats 1 pt. Cream Chop marshmallows in small cubes. Drain juice from pineapple and chop fine; add the chopped nut meats. Chill. Whip cream stiff and mix all together just before serving. Delicious. Marshmallow Raspberry Fluff Whip a pint of thick cream very stiff. Fold in the beaten white of an egg and sweeten to taste. Have ready a cupful of finely chopped soft marshmallows; sprinkle these through the cream, mix and serve very cold. Parfait This delicious dessert is made in various flavors but the foundation is always a boiled syrup, such as is used for icings, with the white of eggs added. Boil 1 cup sugar and 1/2 cup water into syrup and pour over the well-beaten whites of four eggs. Beat until cool and then add 1 qt. Of whipped cream. Into this may be stirred any flavoring or crushed fruit desired. This is not beaten while freezing like ice cream and sherbets, but is packed in ice and salt until congealed. Jam Pudding l c. Jam 1/2 c. Butter 1 c. Sugar 4 eggs Bake in stone dish for fifteen minutes. Serve hot with whipped cream. Glorified Rice Pudding 1 c cooked rice (1/3c. Raw rice) 1/4 c. Brown sugar 1tbsp. Butter 1 tbsp. Gelatine 3/4 c. Milk 1/2 c. Cold water lc. (1/2 pkg.) sliced dates 1 ts. Vanilla 1/2 c. Cream whipped, or two egg whites beaten stiffly Soak the gelatine in cold water for at least five minutes. Scald the milk in the top part of a double boiler, add the butter, sugar, and rice. Add the gelatine and stir until the gelatine has dissolved. Remove from the fire, add the vanilla and dates. Cool until the mixture begins to stiffen. Fold in the whipped cream or beaten egg whites. Pour into a mold which has been rinsed in cold water and set aside in a cold place until firm. Serve plain or with additional whipped cream. This recipe serves 6. Apricot Cream Sherbet Measure 2 c. Of canned apricots which have been mashed through a potato ricer. Cover with 3/4 c. Sugar and let stand 3 hours. Fold in 1 c. Of cream whipped stiff, and freeze. Peach Dessert Place 6 peach halves in 6 ice cream glasses, cup side up. To chopped meat of 6 prunes add 1/4 c. Finely chopped pecans and enough peach syrup to make a soft paste. Fill depressions in peaches with this mixture and place another peach half on top, cup side down. Add spoonful of peach syrup and top with whipped cream. "FOUR WAYS BETTER" BE SURE YOU RECEIVE THE ONE AND ONLY GENUINE UTAH KNIGHT'S SPRING CANYON COAL 1—Starts Quicker. 2—Burns Longer. 3—Less Soot. 4—Less Ash ‘ASK YOUR DEALER'? HIGHEST OES LITY, DEMAND HOME-GROWN SUGAR Pure Extra Fine Granulated and Powdered UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building George Washington Biographers say that early in life he mapped out a plan of business activity and then bent every effort toward achieving his goals. Abraham Lincoln "T will study and prepare, and perhaps my chance will come." L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Street Salt Lake City Please send me the booklet, "Planning Your Future." Name Address You Get Double Value from your subscription to THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, and other Church publications, when you preserve your magazines in permanently bound volumes. Send your back numbers to us now! DURING FEBRUARY We will return them to you postpaid, attractively and durably bound in cloth, stamped in gold. Relief Society Magazine......$1.50 Improvement Era...............2.00 Children's Friend... Instructor.........1.50 per volume The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah "Pioneer Printers and Binders of the West" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SALT LAKE City, HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXIV March, 1937 No. 3 Amy B. Lyman 1st Coun Louise Y Robison, Pres Kate M. Barker 2nd Coun. Attention! PRESIDENCY OF RELIEF SOCIETIES: Let us provide absolutely free delicious "Ju-See Fruit Drinks" that will insure the success of your 17th of March Anniversary program. Send us the name of a thrifty, dependable woman who lives in your ward and is interested in securing a good job. Immediate action will insure two fine values— 1st—A deserving woman will get a fine job. 2nd—Your entire society will enjoy delicious refreshments free. Write at once to EVERBEST PRODUCTS IMPERIAL Come choose your WALLPAPERS The same famous brand.. IMPERIAL.. That you've seen advertised in the national magazines. And the full assortment of colorful and exciting patterns. See them all at this modern store—or at the dealer in your town who shows the IMPERIAL line of wallpapers. WALLPAPERS You'll want to redecorate your home throughout when you see the new and distinctive beauty of IMPERIAL Washable Wallpapers. Reasonably priced. All guaranteed washable and fast to light. SALT LAKE GLASS & PAINT CO. Home of LOWE BROTHERS and PRATT & LAMBERT PAINTS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 305 East 2nd South 35 East First South Street Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah OUR AMBITION The ambition of the O. P. Skaggs System is to furnish you with the MOST of the BEST food for the O. P SKAGGS LEAST cash, consistent of course Fonts Service Above All SALT LAKE PROVO OGDEN PRICE PAYSON DESERET MORTUARY CO. RYSTALDALACE Market 1st South at 8rd East—17th South at 5th East South Temple at 2nd East We Give and Redeem LAL Discount Stamps. Feature" Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products — a Double Stamp Days Equal About 5% Saving When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine "A Surety of Purity" THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints VOL. XXIV MARCH, 1937 No. 3 CONTENTS Visiting Teachers....Ora Julander 135 Frontispiece—Relief Society Presidents of the European Mission............... 136 The Relief Society in the European Mission.............. Amy Brown Lyman 137 Place of the Relief Society in the Church Security Plan.......... Harold B. Lee 140 What the Relief Society Does for Its Members............ Sara Hodson Carruth 143 Love's Torch........Isabelle Ruby Owen 146 Trails of the Old Kaibab.......Elsie C. Carroll 147 Raising Funds for Relief Society............Belle Smith Spafford 151 No Compromise With Evil................Josephine Gardiner Moench 153 Interesting Monotony.....Florence Ivins Hyde 154 A Rational Proposal......Vivian R. McConkie 156 Little Moments of Eternity............Lella Marler Hoggan 160 Appreciation for Value Received...........Hattie Miller Moore 163 To a Spinning Wheel.............Bird Knowlton Ekman 164 Results Dorothy Clapp Robinson 165 Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 169 Notes to the Field......... 170 For Women Who Love to Sew............Vesta P. Crawford 172 Notes from the Field.............Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary 173 A Relief Society Worker......Nephi Jensen 177 Editorials: 178 Leadership Week.........179 A Fine Spirit of Helpfulness............179 Lotta Paul Baxter Released............ 179 Four New Board Members.......... 179 Lesson Department........180 Breaking Dishes..........Caroline Eyring Miner 197 To The Teachers.......Fern Russon 198 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Telephone Wasatch 3540. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879, Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine American Beauty W ASHERS Easiest in the World on Clothes  Use Your Old Washer As a Down and up Payment GRANITE FURNITURE CO. F 1050 East 2lst South Sugar House Out of the high rent District Murray Park City FOOTWEAR FOR EASTER  See the Beautifully New Spring Styles $2.95 to $5.95 WHIPPLE'S SLIPPER SHOPPE. TEMPLE BRAND L. D. S. GARMENTS 36 years experience insures quality and gives you underwear at reasonable prices. REMEMBER—We pay Postage to any place in the United States We are the Manufacturers of ALL APPROVED L. D. S. GARMENTS No. Regular Style For Bene No. For Men 703 Flat Weave Spring Needle... 98 620 Medium Lt. Wt. Double Back....98 750 Non-Run Rayon: 1.00 610 Light Weight Spring Needle...... 1.10 Non-Run Rayon......... 1.15 614 Medium Weight Extra Quality... 1.25 792 Fine Quality Cotton Lisle... 1.25 664 Med. Heavy Wt. Cot. Dbl. Back ee 734 Non-Run Super Bemberg Silk... 1.25 634 Non-Run Super Bemberg Silk...... 1.35 Upon Request. 10c Per Pair Extra % Extra Charge for Sizes Over 48 Do not fail to specify nee or Old Style and if for Man or Woman. Also state if long or short sleeves, short or long legs are wanted. Give accurate Bust Measurements, Height and Weight. Samples Sent Upon Request. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 So. Main St.. Salt Lake City. Utah—OLDEST KNITTING STORE IN UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine be a ae 719 Ribbed Med. Light Wt. Cotton. 1.10 760 Silk and Wool Medium Weight. 1.95 660 Silk and Wool Medium Weight... 602 Extra Fine Quality Lisle..............- 1.25 71.95 For EFFICIENT Spring Cleaning BENNETT'S Cleansers and Polishes There's one for every household need Look for this mark BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO, Leisure-Time Reading Make the reading of good books one of your chief leisure-time activities. You will not only enjoy —you will learn, Our book experts will be glad to help you plan your reading. Call in or write for information. Visit our lending library DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City This is just one model. There's a size and ee to suit every requirement. Ou can buy on EASY TERMS. The Modern Magic Chef GAS RANGE makes cooking a joy instead of a job You can't realize how modern the new gas ranges are until you see the new Magic Chef. It has scores of modern improvements to make your cooking easier, quicker and better. Visit our showrooms and see this modern gas range. MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY Salt Lake Ogden Provo When Buyng Mention Relief Society Magazine PEERLESS LAUNDRY Complete Laundry Service Snow White Clothes 1184 East 21st South Hyland 2182 L D S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES No. B Cotton No. 62. Hvy Wt. Double Back Combed Cotton No. 66. Extra Hvy. Wt. Double Back Combed Cotton No. 82. 88 1-3% Wool No. 92. 10% Wool Silk Stripe old or new styles are wanted; also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 10c. Postage prepaid. 20% extra for 48. When in Salt Lake. Headquarters for Est. 1877 missionaries., Salt Lake City, Utah Pm "Reddy Kilowatt" Your Electric Servant I never grow tired... Or sleep... Or take a day off. I work day and night, doing dozens of household tasks, for which you pay only a few cents per day. Ask your electrical dealer or the Utah Power & Light Company about low cost electric appliances. Electricity is the Biggest Bargain in the Home When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Please state if for men or women, and if and over. Visit our smart new men's shop 9 86 So. Main St. For Every Meal BREAD Bread is the one food you can eat three times a day without getting tired of it—and without sacrificing proper diet. For bread is more nearly a well balanced food than is any other item in your diet. Eat More Fisher's Vitamin D Bread Product of AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY The Big Home-Owned Bakery Beautify Your Home Grounds Write for our free "Sketch Blanks" and start right with a correct planting plan. Also our Free Garden Book containing 112 pages of just the information needed by every Farmer, Gardener, Orchardist, or Home Owner. A Postal Card Will Bring the Service—Send It Today! Porter-Walton Co. Seed & Nursery Specialists SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH CLIMATE-CONTROLLED GASOLINE When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Visiting Teachers By Ora Julander They planted a seed in my heart that day And it grew from that tiny thing, Till it filled my heart with new desires, Gave my soul a truer ring. My only thought was of work undone, Timely tasks so hard to do. When the mind is tired, 'tis a tragic thing, It seems one never gets through. But they came to my door with a smile for me, A handclasp of love and cheer, And I rested a bit as we talked that day *Til my mind began to clear. They brought me a message that lifted me up, Gave me courage to face that day, Gave me hope and strength to go on again, But in a different way. Did they know they had given all that to me? Can they know the good they do? The souls they lift, the hearts they cheer, The seeds they planted that grew? May they have God's blessings with them always As each day they do their part. May He ever be near them with those gifts They give to that other heart. The (Relief Society Magazine VOL. XXIV MARCH, 1937 No. 3 The Relief Society in the European Mission By Amy Brown Lyman THE AUXILIARY organizations of the European Mission are a great asset to the missions and likewise a great asset to their own members. They are very effective agents in creating interest in the Church and in spreading the Gospel. Their influence for good is readily recognized by all observing and thoughtful people, and their well-planned and well-prepared programs, which are so attractive at home, are also attractive abroad. The first convert to the Church in Czechoslovakia was the direct fruit of Bee Hive work. A fine young woman convert in England was recently asked how she became interested in the Church. She answered, "First through attendance at a Gold and Green Ball." The entertainment, she said, was so wholesome and attractive, so well organized and well carried out, and so "different" that she thought M. I. A. Must be high grade and a superior organization. And as she later learned of its fine ideals and standards and that it was an auxiliary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, she decided that the Church itself must likewise be superior and worthy of investigation. She was intrigued by the great interest manifested by the Church in young people—in their lives and in their problems. And the idea that they were thought to be so worth while was a real inspiration. A woman in Denmark who made a casual visit to the Relief Society, later attended regularly and then joined the organization. Through the society she became so interested in the Gospel that she finally accepted it and is now an enthusiastic member. That the auxiliary organizations have enriched the lives of those who have joined them is readily apparent and that they are appreciated for the good they have done and are doing is freely acknowledged by their members. THE Relief Society, because of its long establishment in Europe and because of the great contribution it has made with its welfare work in times of depression, and particularly during and after the war, is probably the best known of the auxiliary groups. Had its ranks not been constantly depleted by emigration, there is no telling what its accomplishments might have been. For sixty years the organization has been functioning in England; sixty years in Norway and Sweden; fifty-eight years in Denmark; from fifty-three to fifty-six years in Germany; and fifty-one years in Holland and Switzerland. BECAUSE people and organizations are so busy and so absorbed in their work while making history, they often neglect to record that history or to keep complete records. 138 So it has been difficult to secure definite historical data concerning the organizations. Through available records it is found that the work was begun in the various missions as follows: England 1874-1877. The first record in the Millennial Star states that at the London Conference held on April 22, 1877, it was reported that three female Relief Societies had been established in that Conference, namely, the North London, Lambeth, and the White Chapel Branches. In Norway (Oslo) and in Sweden the first organizations were effected in 1877; in Denmark (Copenhagen) in 1879. Two dates are given for the first organization in Berlin, Germany, March 1881 and August 1884. The first date of an organization in Holland (Amsterdam) is 1886; in Switzerland (Berne) 1886; in Palestine (Syria) 1918; in South Africa (Capetown) 1922; in France ———; in Czechoslovakia, April 26, 1930. In a recent but brief survey, it has been found that the Relief Society organizations in all the European missions are fully organized and functioning well which is the result of the broad vision and earnest efforts of the capable women who have supervised the work. The 4,694 members are striving earnestly today in 280 branches to carry forward the work. Meetings are held weekly in all the branches. Branch Conferences are held yearly in all of them, and in ninety-eight per cent of the local units these conferences are held on Sunday which gives an opportunity to present the work to the public. THE course of study prepared by the General Board is giving the greatest satisfaction. There is a marked improvement in the number who are taking part in the lessons RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and in the increased enjoyment of them. The women are more enthusiastic over class work than they have ever been before. The theological lessons which have always been the most popular are still so, but a close second to them are those on child welfare. The literary lessons are also appealing and are fully appreciated. It is interesting to note how familiar these women are with the scripture for which they seem to have a real love. Many branches in the British Mission are enthusiastic over the Scripture Project. In one small branch 706 chapters were read from October 1 to December 15. At a Relief Society meeting in London recently visitors were greatly impressed with the presentation and discussion of the Theology lesson. There were only ten present, but each had brought her books—Bible, Doctrine and Covenants and Book of Mormon, and the passages they could not quote off hand, which were few, to prove their points, they readily found in their books. And these were not college women, they were not even high school graduates. The members are reporting generally that the popularity of the child-welfare lessons is due to the fact that they are gaining practical every day help through them. That they are becoming more tolerant, are understanding better their responsibility as parents, are coming to realize that children are not alike and that each needs special study and consideration. They are beginning to realize that much of the maladjustment with grown-ups is due to the fact that they were not understood as children and did not have the right care and consideration. A unique feature in connection with the lessons is that they are presented weekly in nine different languages. The difficulty of the work in Palestine THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE EUROPEAN MISSION 139 -Syria can be imagined when it is realized that only three of the twenty-seven members can read and write, and that no common language exists among the members. Part of each lesson period last year was devoted to the teaching of Armenian so that there might be one language understood by all members. "The charity work is being carefully handled with a sense of responsibility to donors as well as to the needy. With Social Security programs operating in the various countries, Relief Society funds are often used in a supplementary way to insure comforts not otherwise provided for. In connection with this department are the work meetings. In the Swiss-German Mission last year 610 articles were remodeled and distributed. Not the least important of the benefits of Relief Society are the social features. The various entertainments, such as bazaars, socials, dramatic performances and concerts help to develop and cement friendships which become everlasting. In a number of districts and branches there are choruses of mothers and daughters which provide delightful music and which often assist with the music at District Conferences. A member in Belfast, Ireland, made the following observation: "The spirit of Relief Society is like the spirit of the Gospel, it breaks down barriers and transforms strangers into friends." The work of the society, where it is really known,. Is appealing to other humanitarian groups. They are interested in its organization and operation and in its aims, objects, and ideals. In the German-Austrian Mission, notably, advantageous contacts are being made with educational groups and with public welfare agencies and organizations. AN interesting item is the preparation of a simplified hand book in the Netherlands organization which has been translated into the other foreign languages. This with the regular hand book in the headquarters libraries is helping to standardize the work and giving long sought-for information. A new development in the past few years has been the transfer of responsibility, for much of the local work, from the missionaries to the local members. The supervision of the Relief Society within the districts (comparable to stakes) and branches (comparable to wards) is now almost entirely in the hands of the local sisters. Each mission has an executive board of four members, presided over as a general rule by the wife of the mission president. The other three members are local women. At a District Conference recently a district supervisor conducted the Relief Society Meeting in a manner that would have done credit to any seasoned Relief Society Stake President. And the reports of branch presidents were as well given as those you might hear anywhere. THE operation of Relief Society work in the European Mission is thus a great force for good. It is helpful to the Church and a great benefit and blessing to its own members. Through its varied program women are having the opportunity for supervised study, for self-expression and for intellectual development, the like of which they had never enjoyed before becoming members; opportunity for the unlimited exercise of their humanitarian instincts through giving help and extending service to others; and rare opportunity for the development of leadership which is so much needed in the world today. Place of the Relief Society in the Church Security Plan By President Harold B. Lee IN ONE of our Stakes a very grievous and unfortunate circumstance arose that resulted eventually in the excommunication of a member of a Seventies Quorum of that Stake, because of his unchristianlike conduct which manifested itself in untruthful and unwarranted statements regarding the Church and its leaders. The day following the hearing at which this action had been precipitated, a letter was received from the wife of the man who had been dealt with. She pledged her loyalty to the Church and described the conduct of her husband as above reproach in his habits, his morals, his relationships in the home, etc., and then closed her beautiful letter with this statement: "For twelve years he was faithful and diligent in performing his duties in the Church. He paid one-tenth of every dime he made. In 1930 he lost his job. For more than three years he walked the streets day after day looking for work. Since March, 1930, we have not paid an honest tithe. He became discouraged. He met up with men who told him things. He began to doubt, to find fault and this is what it has led to." When a righteous judgment shall be rendered in the case of this man who shall be adjudged to be the more at fault, he against whom action was taken in this instance, or the priesthood quorum and Relief Society Organization that failed to measure up to an ordained responsibility of looking after the unfortunate and distressed within that community? IN THE record of proceedings of a meeting held in Nauvoo on March 17, 1842, to effect the organization of the "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo," the following statement was made by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in defining the objective of the society: "That the sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking after the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants, to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community and save the elders the trouble of rebuking, that they may give their time to other duties in their public teaching." (Excerpts from Relief Society Records.) In this plain and direct statement of the Prophet Joseph, the relationship of the Relief Society Organization to Priesthood Quorums is clearly defined. It is the direct responsibility of each Priesthood Quorum to look after its own members, and the Relief Society Organization is an auxiliary to the Priesthood, or as the Prophet Joseph stated, they are "to provoke the brethren to good works in looking after-the poor of their quorums"' and to "search out objects of charity" and relieve distress before grievous circumstances such as related at the beginning of this article results in the necessity for "rebuking" and passing judgment on individuals who have yielded to temptation during the dark hour of doubt and uncertainty. Truly has it been said, "that the most dangerous time in a man's life is when he is brought to feel in his heart that nobody cares what happens to him." The opportunity for this close cooperation between Priesthood Quorums and Relief Society Workers is RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE CHURCH SECURITY PLAN 141 provided for in the Church Security Program with an organization in every ward of the Church, known as the Ward Employment Committee, or the Ward Security Committee, as some have termed it. This Committee brings together members of the Ward Bishopric, officers of the Melchizedek Priesthood and Adult Aaronic Priesthood Quorums, and officers of the Relief Society, to look after the individual needs of every member of the Ward, the Ward Relief Society Organization "searching out objects of charity" and rendering temporary assistance under the Bishop's direction pending a weekly meeting with the Ward Committee where Quorums may be assigned to necessary CHART SHOWING RELIEF SOCIETY RESPONSIBILITY IN DIRECTING AND SUPERVISING IN COOPERATION WITH PRIESTHOOD AUTHORITIES, THE VARIED OPERATIONS OF THE CHURCH SECURITY PROGRAM PRESIDENCY OF GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD SPECIAL COMMITTEE OF THE GENERAL BOARD REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS OF RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS STAKE PRESIDENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY IN Sewing Canning Distribution Ward Ward Ward Ward Ward Centers Centers Centers Presiden Pres Pres Pres. President STAKE BISHOP'S STOREHOUSE (If operating an a stake basis rather than a regional basis) (15 Regional Organizations) (118 Stakes) 142 projects that require labor, with the Ward Bishopric coordinating all of these agencies and supplying the finances that may be needed. In rendering such assistance, every opportunity must be given to those who are assisted to perform some labor or render some service for the assistance they are to receive. This is as fundamental to the program as the supplying of necessities. If layettes are needed for example, sisters who may need these articles should be given the opportunity of doing as much of the work as possible with volunteer work provided by other sisters if necessary. This principle should be applied in canning operations, clothing remodeling, quilting, etc., and in some instances sisters should be sent into the homes of needy families to help them plan to meet their home problems. In the chart included herein, there is pictured the Relief Society Organization as it relates to various activities in the Church Security Program which will result in the providing of necessities as required. At the head of the great Relief Society Organization is the Presidency of the General Board appointed by the First Presidency of the Church and who by their appointment are requested to work in close cooperation and harmony with the General Church Security Committee appointed under the chairmanship of Brother Melvin J. Ballard to carry out the wishes of the First Presidency and Presiding Bishopric in this program. To facilitate a constant supervision of storehouses and women's activities connected thereto a Special Committee has been appointed from members of the General Board who are expected to keep in close contact RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with the Relief Society Organizations of the various regions and stakes throughout the Church to promote efficiency and economy and to standardize in such a way as to accomplish the most for the efforts put forth. In regions, particularly in congested areas, it is advised that from among Relief Society Presidents of Stakes participating, there be chosen an executive committee to call meetings of the Presidents and to solve problems that may arise from time to time in connection with the work at the various women's centers, and of course, always be in harmony with the instructions from the Special Committee of the General Relief Society Board and the Regional Officers chosen from among the Priesthood Presidents. In the event of isolated stakes where distribution and work projects on a regional basis would not be practical or advisable the Special Committee or the Presidency of the General Board may deal directly with the Stake Presidents of Relief Society in the establishment of women's centers as may be advisable within storehouses or ward units operating within the stake. IN EACH stake in order to promote the purposes of unity in supervision throughout the wards of the Stake there should be organized the Stake Committee consisting of a member of the Stake Presidency as Chairman with the Stake Women's Work Director and Stake Priesthood Work Director, Chairman of Bishops' Executive Council, Storehouse Manager, if any, and the Stake Relief Society President, as members of the Committee. At this meeting the Relief Society President has the opportunity of discussing the work of the sisters throughout the Stake RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE CHURCH SECURITY PLAN 143 with the Stake Presidency and the brethren of the Priesthood. A CAREFUL study of the chart presented and an analysis of the real purposes of the Church Security Program should establish clearly the fact that the most important object that is to be achieved by the Church Security Program is the promoting of a spirit of cooperation and unity throughout the entire Church. The other essential to the success of the Church Security Program is expressed in the story of the rich young man who came to the Master with the inquiry, 'What good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life?" and the Master enumerated the commandments which he must keep in order to gain eternal life, to which the young man replied, that he had done all these things from his youth up. The Master then made this very significant declaration: "IF THOU WILT BE PERFECT, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow Me." TO THE extent that individual units throughout the Church are interested in giving to the limit of their possibilities beyond their own needs, to that extent they are approaching perfection in the Church Security Program. To the extent that Relief Society Organizations in Wards are operating in cooperation with Priesthood Quorums and Bishoprics just to that extent is there a security program in that ward. There can be no security throughout Zion until Relief Society Sisters rise to the prime purpose of their organization "to provoke the brethren to good works in looking after the poor and in searching out objects of charity." ARGELY DUE to the splendid efforts of the sisters of the Relief Society throughout the stakes and wards much has been accomplished toward the realization of the purposes of the Church Security Program. Thank the Lord for the Relief Society Organization! But. Our work has only begun. This coming year we must redouble our efforts, profiting by the mistakes we have made and add to our success to the ultimate triumph of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints in demonstrating to the world its ability to satisfy every need of the human soul. What the Relief Society Does for Its Members By Sara Hodson Carruth OR ninety-five years the Relief Society has functioned as the organization for service for the womanhood of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Who can 'measure the achievements of those years? Today the lives of some seventy-four thousand members are being enriched and enlightened by the programs the society offers. — DURING the last decade in our country, as well as in other progressive countries of the world, great emphasis has been laid on the subject of Adult Education. It is interesting to reflect that for long years previous to this time the Relief Society had been carrying forward a great project of adult education for the women of the Church. Definite lessons on vital subjects 144 were carefully outlined a year in advance by expert educators. These lessons were studied and discussed each week by hundreds of Relief Society groups. Group thinking and discussion were encouraged. Many thousands of L. D. S. Women thus learned to talk things out. The following words of modern scripture proved at once an urge and an inspiration, "Seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning even by study and also by faith." Through the years, splendid courses in theology, literature and social service have been given. With such stimulation many members became students. Classes in home making have received a great deal of consideration. Special attention has been given to such subjects as home nursing, home sanitation and beautification, child hygiene, needle work and handicraft of many kinds. From the beginning the members have been made to feel that they should continue with mental activity and education as long as life should last. The fact that these women were busy home makers with husbands and children to care for was, they believed, but an added reason why they should be mentally alert and, "go on learning." Side by side with this cultural program, and always in the vanguard, has been the relief program —the service for human welfare. Taught to give freely of themselves in the service for mankind, experiences of these unselfish women as they have gone into the homes darkened by want, sorrow, sickness or death have given remarkable opportunities to apply the truths learned in the interest of human betterment. Perhaps no volunteer organization RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in the world has so rich a heritage of traditions. The members lived and loved and worked together unselfishly, not alone because of their sympathy for their fellow men, but because they believed therein lay “Pure religion, undefiled before God and the Father." Such has been the past of this organization. WHAT of today? Never in its history has the society had so much to offer its members. Among these offerings is a series of lessons comparable to college extension courses—lessons that meet present day needs; advanced thought, simply worded. The products of the best minds and the noblest workers are garnered. World happenings and living issues are presented. The aim is always to discover truth and beauty that may be applied in the lives of the members. It would seem that no woman could be exposed to these lessons without becoming a better home maker and a finer citizen, No doubt the greatest spiritual growth comes through the study of the Theology lessons. As we meditate on the glorious truths of the Gospel and on the life and ministry of the Savior, our faith that we are indeed the children of God, destined to become like Him, is strengthened. Thinking and talking together along these lines develop an awareness of our obligations and a determination to live in harmony with God's laws. Thus a divine purpose is given to life. In the lessons of the Literary Department the works of the great masters with their deep understanding of human nature are studied. These bring to the members a clearer interpretation of the values of life. They revel in their lofty ideals and in their beauty of expression. During this season many hundreds of our women have come to enjoy the WHAT THE RELIEF SOCIETY DOES FOR ITS MEMBERS 145 study of biography as never before. It has proved a very real intellectual recreation. In the Social Service Department much emphasis has been placed on the rearing of the child—woman's most important work. There are splendid lessons for those mothers who are trying to understand their children's personalities, who are eager to intelligently guide their loved ones along the paths of physical, mental, emotional and social health. Community problems are studied with the purpose of developing civic pride and of making living conditions better in our towns and cities. The Relief Society offers these courses of study to every member without charge—free as the air they breathe. The practice of publishing the lesson outlines in the magazines each month makes it possible to standardize the work in all associations and places the lesson material in the hands of all the members. OOD music also comes in for serious attention. Every woman has a chance to develop her talent along this line through group singing under good leadership. The Relief Society Chorals throughout the Church are bringing much that is fine, joyous and uplifting into the lives of its people. HE Society gives to its members the joy of association with fine, good women. They grow by such contacts. The most beautiful friendships are formed—friendships that surely will be eternal. The organization furnishes an outlet for social activities. Many lovely affairs are enjoyed by all the members. They learn to get along together; to play, as well as to work together. Indeed, many of the members have but few other social contacts. HE Relief Society is a great training school for service. Overshadowing all else is the opportunity it gives its members to learn to serve well. Every member, no matter how humble or timid, may become a worker—a teacher—a leader. Every opportunity is given for socialized self-expression. UR system of visiting teaching gives opportunity for thousands of women to participate. As they go into the homes each month with a special spiritual message and _ tactfully ascertain the needs of the families, there comes into the hearts of these teachers a great love for their fellow men and an increased charity for his weaknesses. With an intelligent conception of social welfare problems they are able to encourage the distressed and disheartened, to comfort the sorrowing, and lift the burden of fear from the hearts of many. They minister both materially and spiritually. As these teachers go about doing good they come to feel that they are richly repaid. They find that they have developed a new fund of confidence within themselves, and that they have built up a new set of interests. Above all is the joy of a deep seated conviction that they are doing the will of the Master. "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of these, my. Little ones, ye do it unto Me." In such ways the work of the Lord is glorified and advanced. HOSE who have worked in the Relief Society for many years find a never failing source of satisfaction in watching the development of the members. Women of little or no background have been stimulated to study and participate until they have become outstanding teachers. Timid little women have with encouragement and practice become 146 poised and gracious presiding officers. Many volunteer social workers in our cities and counties, who are now doing excellent community betterment work, have had all their training from Relief Society sources. WHAT a marvelous thing it would be if all the women of the Church were taking advantage of the opportunities offered. The organization set-up seems almost perfect:. The material for growth is prepared and placed before them: "All that is lovely or of good report" to assist them in living well balanced happy lives. However, they must realize that they must do their own growing. No organization can take the place of self effort. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Growth comes only through self-activity and by overcoming difficulties. Think of the influence for good our women might be if they all were doing their full part. MY word of personal testimony is that the experience gained in Relief Society work has helped me in my attitude towards life and life's problems. It has broadened my horizon and has helped me to find joy in simple things. It has taught me loyalty to a mighty cause and has given me increased trust in my fellowmen. It has given me the fortitude and the ability to face some of the hardships and trials of life with a degree of courage. Humbly, I thank my beloved Society for its valuable contribution to my life. LOVE'S TORCH By Isabelle Ruby Owen Fling out your blue-gold banner! Lift high your blazing torch! Sing out in rapturous manner... "Loved seventeenth of March!" A day when angels fired the heart To thrilling deeds of worth— Which came to be of Life a part, Rich blessings brought to earth. Since first there fell a pearly tear From tender woman's eyes— Her hands have touched the Harp-of-Love, Bringing blessings from the skies. Since first that trusting band set out— Truth's banner wide unfurled, The hand which rocks the cradle Has brought vision to the. World. Trails of the Old Kaibab By Elsie C. Carroll CHAPTER X THE next morning, without seeing Steve, but being again reassured by Fred that he was going to be all right, Helen returned to the Park. She learned from Wood Russell that Uncle Billy had come to the hotel before going to the ranch and had taken Hawley and several others with him to investigate some clue Lon Dean thought he had regarding the stolen cattle. Helen had been surprised to learn that Hawley was a deputy sheriff. "Yes," Wood told her, "He's been an officer almost ever since he's been here. He doesn't have much to do. There used to be a bootleg escapade once in a while, but now since things are wide open, nobody's worrying about bootleggers. Steve's trouble is about all the law-breaking that's been going on around here for some time, and that's a stumper. Every time he loses a bunch of cattle, they follow the tracks to a certain place where they just disappear. Hawley has spent days out there with Steve, and they've had officers from Fredonia and Flagstaff. But it's always the same. I can't imagine that Lon has solved the riddle; but how I wish somebody could. It's uncanny, and it's getting Steve's goat. He doesn't seem himself any more." "Steve thinks," Wood went on, "that the thieves are connected with someone right here on the mountain who knows just exactly what he's doing every day. The cattle always disappear when he's away from the ranch, but right while some of his men are there watching—sometimes just while they're in the cabin for dinner. But if that theory about the thieves being right here on the mountain was true, we ought to find his cattle in some of the other herds, and he's never found any, though he always looks at round-up time." "Does Mrs. Morley have any cattle?' Helen asked. "No—not that I know of." "How long has she been here, Mr. Russell, and what is her business?" "Well, she was here when we built the hotel—and that's been eight years. She must have been here off and on for about ten or twelve years. She was younger and more girlish when I first knew her, but not any more popular than she is now. As to her business, I think she's bought up a lot of mining stock out there north of her place. Her main business though, I think, is just to have a good time and to help others enjoy themselves." HELEN spent most of the next day in her cabin, thinking. She felt sure she had some small clues, and she was to put them together into a logical theory. At last she was ready to act. She rode to Pete Rockwood's camp and asked him to take her for a ride in his plane. "I'm not ready to fly over the canyon yet. I'm saving that for a special thrill. Today I want to fly over the mountain and see how the forest and the cattle ranches look to a bird." "All right. I’ll take you any place you want to go." The plane lifted and headed back over the mountain. "Tell me about the various ranches 148 and points of interest," Helen said through the tube. "That clearing over to the left is Jacob's Lake," Pete said. "On the right is Hawley's ranch. Want to fly over it?" "Yes." In a few moments they were sailing over a large tract of land thickly dotted with grazing cattle. "Tt's one of the best ranches on the mountain. He's one of the biggest owners in the West. You can see his herds scattered all over this side of the ridge. His land goes clear down to the rim of the canyon on this side." "Can you fly a little lower?" she asked. "I've never seen a herd of cattle." "You'll have a good chance here. Looks like they're having a roundup. See, the cowboys are gathering them in from all over the range. We can skim right over their backs if you say. There aren't many traffic rules out here." The plane zoomed down so low over one of the bunches of cattle that Helen could see each animal very distinctly. They passed above the ranch buildings and Pete told her which were the mess hall, and the sleeping quarters. She could see the huge corrals and sheds. They could even make out the figures of the men at work. "Tt looks as if they're getting ready for branding," Rockwood explained. I Helen started. Two weeks ago Bernice Hawley had spent two or three days at her father's ranch during the branding round-up. She had told Helen many details of the operation. It was strange they would be branding again—though perhaps not so strange either. This tiny piece of information fitted into her picture puzzle. "What makes you think they are getting ready for branding?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "You see the men over there unloading barrels. That's probably tar and other substances: they heat up for the brands. This is about the time of the year that a lot of marking and branding is done, and I don't see why else they'd be rounding in the cattle. It's early to gather in the sale stock." "Is House Rock Valley far from here?" "It's just opposite—on the other side of the mountain, but it will only take Pegasus a few minutes to get us there." The plane lifted while they flew over the higher ridges separating the two ranches. They skirted a cutback in the canyon which formed a huge notch between the two rangelands. Helen studied the topography of the country, every sense alert. She leaned out looking through the field glasses Pete had given her. No, she was not mistaken. That was a line of cattle moving slowly along a trail on the face of the canyon following this cut-back. "There's House Rock Valley below us now," Rockwood announced. Helen looked down at the clearing. She could see the corrals and the ranch buildings near the edge of the wooded hills. A surge of emotion swept over her. Her father had helped to build those structures. If he had lived she might have spent happy summers with him there. The cattle she saw scattered here and there might have been hers—hers and Steve's together. "Can we land here?" she asked. "Sure." He brought the plane to the ground a short distance from the buildings. The place seemed deserted. They went into the main building. It seemed to have been recently occupied, for a fire still burned in the stove and used dishes were on the table. ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB "Shall we have lunch?' Pete asked. "We should wait for our hosts to invite us, shouldn't we?" "Not in this part of the world. Out here they expect people to help themselves and make themselves at home. Cabins are always left open and stocked with food. I'll make us some sour-dough flapjacks. It's funny nobody's around. This is Steve Heyden's place you know— have you heard how he is since the rodeo?" "I think he's getting along all right." What would Pete do if she told him her relationship to this ranch? BEFORE their food was ready Uncle Billy, Hawley, and several other men came to the cabin. They had observed the plane from the other side of the clearing and had come to see what the landing might signify. They were surprised to see Helen. "I'm out sight seeing," she explained. "We just thought we'd give you a friendly call and see if you've caught the cattle thieves yet." "Has Steve been losing more cattle?" Rockwood asked. "Yes." Uncle Billy told him. "His calves went a few weeks ago, and the day of the rodeo a bunch of young steers he had rouned up so he could keep a special watch over them dropped out of sight. Of course Steve don't know that yet. And he don't know that Lon is gone again." "Wasn't he here when you came out that night?' asked Helen amazed. "Not a hide nor hair of him. So we don't have no idee what that clue was that he thought he had." "Do you think he's been kidnapped again by the thieves?" "Nobody knows what's happened to him," Hawley said. "It seems useless to try to solve the mystery 149 of this ranch. I've been working on it for years, but it beats me." Helen looked at him closely and she thought his eyes shifted from her direct gaze. She was eager to have a few words alone with Uncle Billy, and finally succeeded in drawing him aside. "Uncle Billy, I believe I know where those lost cattle are." She had no chance to say more for she saw Hawley approaching. She gave her old friend a sign for silence, but he looked incredulous. As she was flying back with Pete Rockwood she led him to talk of Hawley. "He's a queer chap. I've taken him around quite a little in my plane; to Texas a couple of times and quite often to Salt Lake City. Somehow he doesn't seem to belong here as most of the cattle men do—Uncle Billy and Steve Heyden for instance. I think he has a swell little girl though. She seems more like the West than he does. But she could fit in anywhere. She'd be a little peach—if she wasn't so crazy about Steve Heyden." "I don't see why she shouldn't care for you even more than for Steve. You're nearer her age and you seem more her type," Helen told him. "Do you really think that? Gosh I wish you'd tell her." "I shall." "I did have one inning. She let me bring her home from the Lodge the other night after Steve's accident. She was so broken up over that, that she even let me comfort her a little." "THE next day Helen rode to the Lodge. She must tell Steve what she had learned, for action must be taken at once if the mystery was to be solved. She hoped he was well enough to talk and help her plan what to do. 150 To her surprise he was up and around. In fact he was outside somewhere—the bell-boy told her—taking a short walk—perhaps on one of the near-by trails. Fred, she found, had been called to a sick man at a road camp back on the mountain. She sat in the lobby waiting. As the minutes passed she became restless and went out on the porch to look for Steve. Presently she walked out onto one of the foot-paths below the lodge. She didn't want to get far away as he might return by some other path; so she sat on a bench overlooking the canyon. She began tracing with her eyes resemblances in the natural structures before her, to famous pieces of sculptured art. Presently she heard voices on the opposite side of the rocky projection in the path near which she sat. "Tess, I don't understand. You can't mean what you seem to be saying." Helen despised eaves-dropping and started up. Then she realized she couldn't retreat without being discovered, and to go on was impossible, for Tess and Steve were on the narrow trail. Besides, there was distress in Steve's voice. What could the woman be saying to torture him?. "You can't expect me to believe that you don't understand what I mean, Steve. I'm throwing myself at you. And I've never done that for any man. I'm forgetting that there is such a thing as pride, for I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE love you. You've known for a long time that I've wanted you. But you've ignored me. I tell you, Steve, that loving you has made a different woman of me. I want to be decent. I promise if you'll come to me, you'll be the only one. I don't expect you to marry me, at least not now; not until I've proved myself and have made you want to marry me." "My God, woman, you don't know what you're talking about." "Don't I! I've been thinking of nothing else for weeks. I know you don't care for me now. You may even imagine that you love someone else; but you're not the kind to be satisfied with another man's wife. And I can make you care. Isn't it something worth while that I'm offering you? This mystery is breaking you. You're not only losing your cattle; you're losing your health. And you'll lose your mind too before you'll ever solve the riddle. You ought to know that, after twelve years of trying. Isn't my offer to disclose the whole thing worth anything to you?" "Yes," shouted Steve, "But by God it's not worth the thing you ask. Get out of my way and let me pass." There was a slight skirmish on the other side of the boulder and Steve, head-bandaged and white with anger and disgust, rushed past Helen up the path toward the Lodge. For a moment she sat motionless, then she followed him. (To be continued) HOOSE always the way that seems the best, however rough it may be; custom will soon render it easy and agreeable.—Pythagoras. AVE a purpose in life, and having it, throw into your work such strength of mind and muscle as God has given you.—Carlyle. Raising Funds for Relief Society By Belle Smith Spafford IN the conduct of any organization certain expenses are incurred. The Relief Society is no exception to this rule. Often the raising of funds by methods other than direct donation becomes a problem. This is particularly true with Stake organizations in communities where the Wards are widely scattered. In these Stakes the traveling and other expenses are exceptionally high and the assembling of the people difficult. Any activity undertaken must therefore be very carefully planned, expertly managed, extensively advertised and of such quality as to justify the support of the people. The Relief Society organization encourages activities which motivate any phase of its work, which provide opportunities for the development or enrichment of the lives of the women, which are of service, and, in keeping with the dignity and standards of the Society. The Relief Society Stake Bazaar is possibly most often resorted to in raising funds. This provides motivation for the Work and Business Department, is an avenue for the disposal of articles made by the sisters, provides social contact and is usually quite remunerative. In arousing interest and support for this activity, however, ingenuity is often heavily taxed. In one Stake a unique and successful bazaar was held entitled "The Nations Meet." Each ward represented a Nation; Italian, Irish, Alaskan, Hawaiian, American—Indian, Mexican and Japanese, carrying out in every detail distinguishing features of the Nation represented. Attractive booths were erected and articles made by the sisters in the Work and Business Department were offered for sale. Each booth also sold novelties characteristic of the Nation. Refreshments were provided in keeping with the theme, each ward serving but one course. The Irish served potato salad; the Indian, corn bread; the Alaskan, ice cream, etc., so planned and arranged as to make it possible to purchase a satisfying and well balanced meal by patronizing each ward. Cakes, pies, bread, jellies, bottled fruit, etc., were entered for competition. These articles were judged, prizes awarded, and then were offered for sale. During the afternoon and evening excellent programs were presented, each ward providing one number representative of its nationality. The ward whose booth was most typical of the country represented as well as the one having the best program number was given an award. The entire affair was planned and directed by the Stake Board and the earnings shared by both Stake and Wards on a 50% basis. A Christmas Gift Shop proved a similar source of revenue. This opened at 6 o'clock with a Cafeteria lunch, each ward being responsible for certain portions of the menu. The Gift Shop was gay with Xmas colors, a tree and a Santa Claus. Each ward had an artistic booth featuring such articles as hand made handkerchiefs, Xmas Candy, aprons, dolls and reconditioned toys. One very popular booth sold Xmas puddings and fruit cakes beautifully wrapped and containing the recipe. Profits were shared by Stake and Wards. Another Stake, covering a rather small area, found Silver Socials stimulated interest in Relief Society 152 to the extent of considerably increasing the enrollment as well as being remunerative. The Stake was divided into four sections and a large and very attractive home was utilized in each section. Every woman in the Stake was given a personal invitation to the social being held in the unit in which she resided. The finest talent in the Stake was drawn upon to present a program based on a Literary lesson. The artists participating were beautifully costumed. The program numbers were rotated, thus the same program was presented in each home. Light but attractive refreshments were served and voluntary donations received. Stake officers presided at each home. The fact that these socials were held in beautiful homes seemed to promote interest and support. A Flower Show was a gorgeous and successful enterprise. So many flowers were on display and so artistically were they arranged that the hall was a veritable bower of loveliness. A fee was charged to enter flowers for competition. Interest was so keen that there were over 100 entries. Flowers, plants, slips, etc., which had been donated were sold. A Flower Queen was an added attraction. During the afternoon an orchestra and the Relief Society choruses provided entertainment. In the evening the story of Persephone, the Goddess of Spring, was depicted in pageant. Light refreshments were offered for sale during the entire day and a small admission charged. A Stake Opera did much to arouse | interest in Relief Society, to encourage Relief Society music, and to create Stake spirit. A colorful light opera suitable for mature voices was selected. The chorus comprised an equal number of singers from each ward selected by the Ward Relief Society choristers. Try-outs were RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE held for the selection of leads. Beautiful yet inexpensive costumes were designed and made by the Work and Business Departments. Scenery was also made through the co-operation of the brethren. Each ward made a large unusually clever poster which was hung in a conspicuous place in the ward amusement hall as one feature of the advertising. The Sunday evening before the performance soloists were sent to each ward and rendered well chosen selections from the opera. The opera was a credit to the organization and a great financial success. Where there is a picture show in the stake it has been found paying to sell tickets on a % basis. Through the kindness of the management of a show house in one stake the Relief Society was allowed 50% of all tickets sold and used and 100% where tickets were sold and not used. The stake printed their own tickets but the management secured an advertisement for the back of the ticket which defrayed the expense of printing. The greatest of care must be exercised, however, to see that a picture sponsored by the Relief Society is a suitable one. Unique or novel dances with a popular orchestra, a good floor, and a good floor manager are usually successful. Pageants based on Relief Society work, particularly the educational courses secure the support of the people. Ice cream, strawberry, or harvest festivals, have been a source of revenue in some stakes. Sponsoring lectures, particularly illustrated ones, readings, book reviews or musicals may be profitable when the artists participating are exceptionally good. Whatever the activity undertaken by a stake it is imperative that the approval and whole-hearted support RAISING FUNDS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY of the ward organization be secured. Stake organizations must bear in mind that the wards have their own organizations to finance and should plan so as to interfere as little as possible with ward activities. On the other hand ward organizations must realize that the stake organizations exist for service to the wards and has no place, save the wards, from which to draw. Co-operation is essential to success. In almost any undertaking it is wise to plan early enough to allow thorough preparation and extensive advertising. 153 Activity should be presented at a time somewhat removed from any other major activity. Success is more often assured when tickets are sold in advance. This requires an enthusiastic, accurate, energetic ticket manager. Success must not be measured in terms of money alone. The development of the women, the contacts made possible, the spirit created are of the greatest importance. "There is no excellence without labor." No Compromise With Evil By Josephine Gardiner Moench WE are beset with many temptations today, but let us consider if we are tempted beyond our power to resist. Have we, who claim to be the descendants of God's chosen people, the strength and courage which Bible history shows us they possessed? Can we picture a temptation stronger than was brought to bear upon Daniel and his companions? They were not only given the privilege of partaking of what was considered in the king's household the choicest food and wine in all the land, but they were commanded by the king to do so. But we are told that "Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank," and begged that for ten days they be privileged to choose their own food and drink. What was the reward of resisting the temptation which was placed before them? We read, "Now God had brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the prince of the king's eunuchs... So he consented to them in this matter and proved them ten days, and at the end of ten days their countenances appeared fairer and fatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the king's meat." So the servant consented that Daniel and his companions should choose the food they ate. We can rightfully suppose that they lived up to the highest standard they knew in other respects during the three years in which they were in training. At the end of that time they were brought before the king and he "communed with them... And in all matters of wisdom and understanding that the king inquired of them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians and astrologers that were in all his realm." "THE same laws apply to the youth of today as to Daniel and his companions. To those who have the same high resolve as Daniel, that they will not defile themselves with food and drink and riotous living which their intelligence tells them is injurious to their bodies and their souls, will be given the same reward of strength, endurance, and wisdom, Interesting Monotony By Florence Ivins Hyde SUPPOSE I should have felt ] complimented when I was told that I am too intelligent to spend my life "keeping house." "The monotony of it makes me nervous," my acquaintance said, "and besides that I think we owe something to the public." Instead of puffing up as perhaps I should have done, I bristled. I almost resented the sympathy of this woman who leaves her one child to grow up alone while she spends the mornings in her car and the afternoons playing bridge or at some "culture club." And so in my own mind I began to "throw my quills." Such women are exceedingly generous with their sympathy and advice. They could just weep for Mary Gray when her sixth child was born. They feign the greatest compassion because the husband of Mrs. M. Doesn't earn enough to furnish her with hired help. "It is enough," I have heard them say, "to have to plan all your work without having to execute it too." They think that to be parasitic is an evidence that fortune has smiled upon them. I have seen some look with a supercilious air of compassion upon their unfortunate sisters, never realizing that this housewife whom they pity, this slave who grinds away at her job, has her own powerful defense. MAY women relish the advice of such writers as Dorothy Dix when she says that every woman should take a vacation away from her husband and children, once a year. That when she has cooked 1095 meals, washed that many dishes, and made more than that number of beds, she has earned a vacation. They absorb with interest the stories of such writers as Sinclair Lewis when he describes the boresome life of the small town woman. Such daily tasks as the routine of hearing her husband build a furnace fire every morning, "got on her nerves'? So completely that her only alternative was to walk away and leave it all. Perhaps it does not occur to them that a housewife can be well adjusted and see romance even in housework. For rearing a family covers a multitude of arts; it taxes the ingenuity and intelligence to the very limit, and women who are doing the job successfully, look almost with disdain upon the woman who feeds her family from cans. "THE profession of housewifery can be both stimulating and remunerative. With her first child, a woman's serious problems begin. She must learn something of nutrition and if she does it as it should be done, her mental capacity will be taxed, equally, I am sure, with the bridge player. Understanding the "why" of feeding the family places her on a par with the profession of medicine. It is not long before the wideawake mother begins to wonder, "What stories should my child hear?" and as she delves into the fine books at hand in an effort to answer this question, she learns that nothing a child ever learns afterward, influences him more than the stories told in his childhood, a challenging statement. And when as she proceeds, the truth begins to sink in that human destiny is largely shaped by the nurture or neglect of childhood INTERESTING MONOTONY  she discovers that her life's work is mapped out. And to her it is not a sacrifice, for in her attempt to understand her family and to solve its problems, she is led into a study of most of the problems of life, from bookkeeping to all the things that make for the enrichment of life. WHEN her child begins to talk and she thinks it unusually bright or as in some cases unusually dull, it is exceedingly stimulating and wholesome to find out what other children have done in the way of developing a vocabulary, and if she has enough intellectual curiosity, she is led into a study as fascinating as the adventures of Monte Cristo, himself.. PERHAPS the time comes when she feels her child is not reaching the heights in school grades that some other child is doing, and she wonders why. A study of the intelligence of school children is one of the most interesting studies science has to offer. From it she soon learns that although children differ vastly in mental ability, the schools still hold them all up to the same standards of excellence,—a problem worth looking into. A large proportion of children are forced to leave school with little preparation for life, simply because they are intellectually incapable of mastering the curriculum which the school has set up. Interest, will power, social adaptability, leadership, personality, all have a great influence upon success, but some of the saddest failures in life are due to the selection of a vocation which requires a higher grade of ability than the individual possesses 155  One feels a certain security in the knowledge that many such mistakes might be prevented by the use of intelligence tests. All these facts make this housewife wonder, "what can I do about it all?' And from here the path is not long to a serious study of human behavior, involving such practical home problems as correct habits, cooperation in the home, the conflicts and escapes of youth and adolescence, religious' education, and many other constantly recurring problems. She has a comforting experience when she learns that mental conflicts are natural during adolescence, that the solution of the conflict is the secret of existence, that failure to solve it means disaster and that it is possible to learn how to salve it. N this day of confusion it is worth while to learn that religion, like other things, must be taught; that one great truth is to never teaeh anything which has to be unlearned; and that the early habit of straight and unhampered thinking is one of the finest heritages we can give to our children. Every reaction of a child to a situation is just as definite a symptom of his mental and emotional set-up as a temperature is a symptom in disease. And so, handling a family is a job for the elite. Enrichment of life does not consist of frills and publicity. Notoriety is not the thing to be sought after. It is infinitely more satisfying to hear a son or a daughter say, '"Mother, let's have a grate fire and read," than to be asked to speak before some club, A mother par excellence is hard to compete with. A Rational Proposal By Vivian R. McConkie HEN in human industry it \) \ was discovered that two people working together could accomplish more than the sum of their work separately, the beginning of the modern doctrine of industrial co-operation began. The same theory proves true in the uniting of efforts of ecclesiastical organizations. In any organization cooperation of the different members of the group is essential for efficient and wholesome activity. Likewise, the co-operation of groups is a step toward a bigger, more concentrated, and influential program. The virtue and permanence of this closer relationship would be insured by a hygienic, progressive attitude, which would avert disintegrating conditions and would maintain coherence and solidarity by purposive activity in the performance of significant organization projects, to which all could contribute for a common purpose. As a result an attitude of confidence would pervade the organizations, for confidence is developed and is maintained by purposive activity and by productive achievements, without which the desired results of our collective efforts can scarcely be achieved. If the art of working together is helpful to social and economic causes it would be equally helpful in church organization, for all of the members of the church have, or ought to have the same purposeful aim in view. UST as integration is the most important characteristic of the wholesome individual personality, it is the most significant characteristic of the mechanics of church groups. Homogeneity is an equally desirable condition for the women managed auxiliaries. The Relief Society, the Young Women's, and the Primary Associations are working for the same great cause, that is, to help their members save themselves. The integration of these organizations is vitally important, for it causes them to fit more perfectly in the plan of redemption, and is not too much to be hoped for. It can be effected by the women's organizations, for they have a common purpose,—a common task. But its accomplishment requires co-ordinated interests. WE do the things in life that we are interested in doing. Our interests determine our courses. We make our own elections. We have individual agency, so we classify ourselves both here and eternally. The interests of all mothers, daughters and primary children of the church ought to be challenged. With close co-operation between the organizations of these various groupings, what could not be accomplished in the unifying of interests, by placing first things first. Interests are of relative value. Our daily conduct reveals them, as well as our understanding, our appreciation, and our hearts, for the Lord gives unto the children of men according to the desires of their hearts. We ought, therefore, to elect to desire the things that will take us back into the divine presence. Such lofty purpose needs all available power to help and encourage it on its way. With closer co-operation of the organizations in whose care is entrusted all of the women and children of the church, every member could be accounted for. A RATIONAL PROPOSAL ANY do not have sufficient understanding of the worth while things of life to intelligently evaluate. Many are deceived by the craftiness of men, and follow after vain things, and neglect eternal values. Some church members are interested wholly in educational pursuits. A few have brilliant minds but lack balance and faith in God. With the great variety of existing conditions it is comprehendable why only a part of the women of the Church are enrolled or actively interested in the women's organizations. Our problems are so interrelated that if they were viewed from a larger perspective, with clearness of vision of important and practical affairs, with the co-operative efforts of all of the women and of all of the children in the church, a greater degree of perfection could be reached. No organization would lose its identity through this enlarged vision and extended interests. To do so would merely contemplate unifying efforts and would continually keep in mind the big purpose of it all. The women's organizations of the Church could purposively and attentively co-ordinate their. Plans, and the execution of them, in such a way as to solve many problems that threaten us. For instance, the living of church standards would be a significant task to work on. I have unbounded confidence in the influence of good women, in this respect. Our efforts would be incommensurate. If conditions can not be justified as they are; if there is waste of energy or loss of effort, or failure in attainment, then something ought to be done about it. The Lord has given ' us the organization and the agency to act, and we ought to move forward according to newly created conditions. We ought to keep apace, mechanically, with the need. That seems to be the Lord's plan. If our efforts 157 are less fruitful we ought to inquire whether we ought to mend our methods. How great a force for righteousness it would be if all Relief Society mothers; all Mutual girls, and all Primary children, acted according to their knowledge; if each knew how to live, and if each had the will to purposively co-ordinate mind and body. No wind is favorable to the captain who does not know the port to which he is bound. THE Church Security Plan offers wonderful opportunity for collective planning, co-operatively administered. The plan of the priesthood is a plan of co-operation. The progress of the whole Church program is dependent upon this principle. It seems clear that a co-operative plan for the women's organizations could and ought to be worked out. By that I mean a plan that is best for all concerned, that will obtain the best results. The women ought to develop a plan that would be best for their executive officers,— one that is best for all the members of the organization; one that would give to them the greatest opportunity to serve, and one that would develop the keenest possible helpful desires. It ought to hold up and to magnify the fine standards of the Church, for only through them can there come a high degree of excellence. Careful co-ordination of the efforts of the executives of the Relief Society, and of the Young Women and of the Primary, in the distribution of responsibility to their membership, is an important thing to insure success. All persons must put forth an effort worthy of themselves, then the results will be so much greater. No matter how hard the officers work, with their limited physical strength, they can not hope to accomplish all that their members can do. There must be no lowering of standards in the execution of these 158 duties. On the contrary the standards of the people must be made comparable to the standards of the Church. There must be established, in the hearts of members, a healthy attitude toward projects so estimable as caring for the needy, the development of faith, the establishment of good character, and the understanding of the gospel. Each must be taught that the response of the individual will be representative of themselves; that the gift is worthy the giver. NOTHER virtue of close relationship would be that all would become acquainted with the programs of each other, as well as with their needs, their capabilities, and with their strength, which would inevitably lead to a closer understanding, and to greater love one toward another. Our problems are all so interrelated, and we are all so interdependent that youths' problems are mother's problems, and children's problems are the problems of both youth and mother. Closer co-ordination of these auxiliaries would aid the gospel plan, which has been given for the blessing and for the progress of man, in its forward march, and would aid the women of the Church to more clearly see, as a whole, and to unify their efforts. With this greater interest all special drives, which, after all, are instituted for personal salvation, accomplished through the furtherance of the Lord's purposes, could be accomplished with less effort and with greater efficiency. For instance, the children's hospital penny drive, a project assigned to the Primary, carries individual responsibility, but the mother, who is a Relief Society member, possessing understanding and being aware of the project, could prepare the family to receive the Primary workers, and to satisfy their RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE needs. A vast increase of pennies would result, if every family were so organized and taught. Every member of the family would be learning to give. What an achievement! To learn, early and well, how to give. When these primary children and mutual girls become mothers, they, having learned to give, would be disposed to make a suitable monthly contribution to the Relief Society, for charitable purposes. Having been a ward Relief Society president for some years, the need of generosity has been doubly clear to me. People do not give because they have an abundance. Of course, one can not give that which he has not, but generally we give because we have learned to give. Generosity is less universal than is selfishness. Commonly it must be developed. Many people must learn to give or they will never be generous. It is hard to deny one's self of coveted pleasures, or of that which one needs badly, to give for another. We love material substance, and before we can learn to part with it, a long course of training is usually necessary. One must be elevated to a higher level before he is generous. "He must have developed a good heart. We respond because our hearts have been touched, and our training determines whether our hearts can be touched. The statement: "If I had I would give," like many virtues, is over-worked. It would be well if all who could give would do so, and if all who have not would honestly say that they would if they had. But there are only a few who can not give, if it is not more than the widow's mite. Many women would give, not if they had the ability, but if they had the desire to give,—if they were acquainted with generosity, and with the joy of freely giving. The rule is, and it seems natural enough, that the A RATIONAL PROPOSAL needs and the desires of men exceed their ability to acquire, so, when they give it is a sacrifice. By force of long development and of will they learn to place self in the background, and to give because they have cultivated the desire to give, and not because their wants or their needs have been gratified. An exception to this rule is the case of the rich man, which is so rare as to need no comment. I vision the day, when, through close co-operation between the women's organizations of the Church, all Latter-day Saint girls who grow to womanhood in Church activity, and who have homes of their own, will have been taught that they are expected to so budget their expenditures that they can give a monthly contribution to the visiting Relief Society teachers, and who will be willing to do so without pain. With the merging of efforts of these organizations, and with mutual adjustments made, and with the technique of working together learned, duplication of effort will be eliminated. Take for example an enlistment project of "Every member accounted for." One group of workers could make the survey for the three organizations concerned. Assume that the Relief Society visiting teachers were given, early in the season, before the fall meetings begin, a prepared questionnaire, and were asked to fill in the names, addresses, ages, and telephone numbers of the 159 members of the family, From the information an enlistment secretary could prepare a list of eligibles for all three organizations, and place them in the hands of the several executives. Each presidency could, in that manner, acquire all the information regarding prospective members, etc., that a separate group of workers could supply, and what is more important, all of the organizations would become gospel conscious, with relation to the whole scheme of the women's organizations; family interest would be aroused; mothers would be “auxiliary" minded, and all would grow "Tuesday conscious,' and there would be a broadening of services rendered on that day. Finally, the conception that the gospel is for man would impress itself upon us and we could unite our full efforts toward righteousness. We could vitalize such slogans as: Faith enough to trust in the Lord; If the Lord be God, serve Him; A spiritual awakening in the home; Every member of the family accounted for on Tuesday; etc., etc. In short, more of the glorious blessings that the Lord has in store for the faithful would inevitably be our portion, if we would apply maximum co-operative methods to our efforts in accomplishing our Gospel assignment, which greater co-operation, it seems to the writer, could be worked out for the salvation of many and to the glory of the Lord. NATIONS will not war against each other when those who make up the nations have nothing but love and unselfishness in their hearts. The place to start is with one's own self—Lawrence D. Wright. EMPERANCE and labor are the two best physicians of man; labor sharpens the appetite, and temperance prevents from indulging to excess.—Rousseau. Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? RECORDS Take Time to Salvage the Worth Whiles By Lella Marler Hoggan "Having had a great knowledge of the goodness and the mysteries of God therefore I make a record of the proceedings in my days." I Nephi 1:1. Since the beginning of time truth has been recorded for the good of humanity. The first truths, written in the rocks by the hand of Nature, tell the story of the creation of the world, a story that men are today slowly and studiously deciphering. Ancient Scripture, man's written testimony of God's dealings with His children, has for long years been a guide to the Christian heart. In loving remembrance of the Master's great work, his Apostles wrote the story of his life and his message, that it might be passed on to other generations for their eternal betterment. When in ancient times, the Prophet Lehi and his family began their journey into a new world, it was necessary that they should carry with them the recorded Word of God, even though it had to be obtained at the cost of a man's life. "It is better that one man should perish," directed the spirit, "than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief." (1 Nephi 4:13) The Nephites of this early day, were a record making people. They. Had a religion and a literature. They LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY cherished the traditions and the religious belief of their forefathers, the Israelites. The Lamanites were influenced by no such civilizing force, and they became a degenerate nation. Without records men do not reach a high degree of civilization. The uplifting influence of the recorded word is essential to growth and development. A vital part of the Church of Jesus Christ in these latter days, rests on the sacred record of Mormon, the ancient prophet and historian. Out of the world's confusion of 1830, came the restored Gospel with all of its promises for women. Twelve years later, the Woman's Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. His words of instruction and inspiration were recorded and carefully preserved by the organization. During the subsequent journeys of the Church, from state to state, this record was held in safe keeping. After the tragic death of the Prophet, it was valued even more highly than before. When the Saints began their westward trek, it was stowed carefully away with their precious treasures, and was carried more than a thousand miles across the barren plains. And when the organization again became active, the record was brought forth, that its inspired teachings might give strength and courage, comfort and cheer to the women of Zion, Paul of old, gathered together the truths of the Master's teaching, and through his own great epistles, preserved for humanity the Gospel philosophy in all its strength and beauty. In a similar manner, the Relief Society women went through their 161 early day records and gleaned out the Gospel truths that were to guide them in their activities. These truths give the foundation principles and the philosophy and purpose of the Relief Society work. They reveal the part that women are to take in establishing the Gospel of Peace in these latter days. Here are some of the Prophet's words of revelation and prophetic promise: "The Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls. "And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. "You should be armed always with mercy. Be pure in heart. By union of feeling, we obtain power with God. "Work together in a cooperative manner, and respect and hold sacred the confidences of one another. "If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." Down through the ages the wheat has been separated from the tares and garnered for the use of man. Is it not the obligation of each generation to conserve the best that the past has given, as a contribution to the future? Do not throw away too lightly the lovely gifts of life. Do no permit the really worth-whiles to be tossed into the scrap heap. Standards and institutions that have cost years of inspiration and sacrifice to build, should not be cast on the wheel of chance. The ideals and traditions of a nation and a people, that have been purchased at so great a price, should not be permitted to perish; but should be preserved and wrought into the very life of that people, to 162 uplift and glorify the daily quiet tasks that make up life. MUCH of the history of any nation is gleaned from the daily journals of its pioneers. Is one of these precious journals, stowed away in some old trunk in your home, the ink on the yellowed pages fast fading into oblivion? Is Grandmother sitting at home alone and lonely, with a wealth of priceless memories that have not yet been recorded? Perhaps she is nearly ready to graduate from the school of life. Any day her book of memory may be closed. Are you going to wait too long to record these interesting experiences, and permit them to be lost to you and yours forever? These pioneer stories should be saved. Memories grow dim with age. In a few years there will be no one left to tell these tales from experience. It is a great joy to any person to see his life's story set down in permanent form, but it is especially appreciated by those who tread the sunset trail of life. (GENEALOGICAL and Family Records, Books of Memory, and Treasures of Truth, are invaluable when properly prepared. Certificates of blessing, baptism, ordination, etc., should be carefully kept. What of the miraculous manner in which God's watch care has been over you and yours through the years? Why not make a record of these experiences? Modern Miracles, by Jeremiah Stokes, is a real contribution to the faith-promoting publications of the Church. Our theologians, historians, biographers and poets, from year to year, are adding to and enriching the literature of the Latter-day Saints. And monuments in stone and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bronze are recording the deeds of matchless valor of those early day men and women who trod the lone trails stretching across the prairie, to establish a commonwealth in the heart of the desert. Are you writing the story of your life? When you embark on your last great adventure will your loved ones have to scurry through a few scraps of information to supply the demands of the news reporter? Why not begin the writing of your biography while your mind is still alert and your memory dependable? You know, as no one else can ever know, what has made the biggest mark on your life. In writing your story do not give space to a clutter of uneventful prose; neither should you make it a weather report nor a calendar of social events. In looking back over your life, select the big moments; the events that have shaped your life; the high lights; the sweetest, happiest moments; the tenderest remembrances. You might include some old sweet songs, or bits of poetry, wise sayings, new truths, amusing stories. But above all, let it reach the depths of your inmost life. Make it a record of your highest aspirations, your best plans, your greatest achievements and your loveliest memories; that it may be an inspiration and a joy to all those who read it. Busy mothers seldom find time for daily journals. That need not discourage them. A weekly or a monthly report will serve their purpose quite as well. Some persons make a written report to themselves once each year. A report at regular intervals is an urge to progressive activity. In every life there are some moments of leisure. Why not use a portion of this free time to salvage some of the worth-whiles of life? Appreciation for Value Received By Hattie Miller Moore Relief Society Magazine. The magazine has always been very welcome in my home, but during the last few months that I have been far from my Utah home the day has come to be a red letter day that brings my magazine. Eagerly I turn the pages, thrilled as I do so in anticipation of the enjoyment in store. I notice with joy and pride that one of the foremost contributions bears the name of a friend from our stake at home. Then I turn the pages on through the lesson department to the report of our late magazine drive. I note the long list of names of our sisters from different stakes and missions of Zion; what a band of missionaries working toward the same objective, to get our fine magazine into more homes. The magnitude of its circulation is so great, going as it does to all parts of the world. There are not words to tell, and no way to measure, the far reaching influence for good that this fine publication carries into the lives of the daughters of Zion. Trees mail brought the IN rather a reminiscent mood, my mind travels backward over the years so rich with memories of Relief Society work. I truly feel especially blest, in that during the last sixteen years I have had the very great honor and pleasure of working as an executive officer in three different ward organizations, and as a member on two Relief Society Stake Boards. As I look back over these happy busy years, so rich in experience to me, it seems that all along the way the Relief Society Magazine has stood as a guide to point the way, not only in lesson material, but also as a real spiritual guide, with its high ideals, to a more perfect life. What A contribution to my memory book are the friendships of those many fine women with whom I have labored. To me it is like a rosary of rare gems, as I count them o'er, their different personalities each with its fine individual charms, shine with beauty. What a rosary; God bless them all. What other woman's organization in the whole world today can bring into the lives of its members the rich rewards that we, as Relief Society women enjoy. Would that our dearly beloved prophet could have looked into the future and seen its growth; could have seen its influence on so many lives, not only in relieving human distress but also the testimonies gained by those who are called to carry the work, surely a marvelous work and a wonder, his spirit must hover near and inspire our wise leaders who constitute the general board of our Relief Society, for only through inspiration could they so efficiently carry on the great work. MY grandmother, Elmira Pond Miller, was a member of the first Relief Society of the Church. I loved to listen to the interesting stories of those hard days. She, like many other brave mothers, was driven from her comfortable home in Nauvoo by an angry mob. She was given one hour to pack her little family and what food, clothing, and bedding she could get into one wagon, leaving her dearly loved home with its warm fire burning in the fireplace, and all her household treasures. Among her bedding were two big feather beds. These beds 164 were afterwards emptied, and from the bed ticking shirts were made to be used to help clothe the boys in the Mormon Battalion. Surely her heart was full of the true spirit of Relief Society work, which is one of true service. Dear little grandmother I love her memory. TODAY as I turn the pages of my magazine, my heart overflows with thankfulness and appreciation RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for the many joys and blessings it has added to my life. May our Heavenly Father continue to inspire and bless dear Sister Robison and every member of her board, that through their able leadership our Relief Society work may go steadily onward and upward with our beloved magazine going before as a beacon light to show the way. TO A SPINNING WHEEL By Bird Knowlton Ekman What you could tell if you could speak O Spinning Wheel! What storied bygones that we would seek You could reveal. A century has passed and more We have been told Since you were brought from foreign shore By one then old. The years relentless, score on score Have passed you by. The feet that pressed your treadle floor Now quiet lie. Was there a golden-haired young bride Who spun the flax That grew about the country side, While husband's ax From nearby uncleared forest rung? Do you remember joyous bound Of children's feet Their cries that made the walls resound, The rhythmic beat Of rain on thatched or sodded roof? Was there a grey and dim-eyed crone Too old for tears Who bent where flickering fire-light shone Silent with fears? Of helpless age and she alone Remembering How fearlessly in days gone by Her joy would wing As swift her wheel made distaff fly While she would sing What you could tell if you could speak O Spinning Wheel. Results By Dorothy Clapp Robinson Scene: Any Relief Society room any work day. Women working at ends and one side of quilt—side to audience is rolled to center. Table at right back where art is being taught by Mrs. Tracy. Upstage right is Mrs. Swift mending hose. Mrs. Duwart is upholstering old-fashioned rocker. Counselor in charge of work moves about quietly. Curtain rises as Mrs. Brown enters. Women greet er. Brown: Good morning. Counselor: Morning? Brown: Good afternoon, then. Quilting again and I dare say you have been at it since nine o'clock this morning. I believe you quilt for the love of it. Hailey: (Smiling.) That could be one reason. Another might be that people need bedding. Brown: (Moves about looking at quilt.) Old pants and coats again. How dull. Vincent: (Teacher Topic leader. Cultured, quiet voice.) I have been thinking how bright and colorful it is. Counselor: There is appreciation for you. All of those red pieces were gray until I dyed them. Brown: 1 cannot help admiring your heart more than your judgment. Why shouldn't the one for whom it is intended do the work? I wonder why we do not have more planning in this organization. Our work seems so pointless. We work on and on, never getting anywhere. Always doing things the same old way. President: As long as we have good sisters like you, Sister Brown, to give us the old trousers and coats we shan't worry about the work of it. I think you don't want to quilt. They are making flowers at the table. Brown: They are clever but so impractical. What would I do with one? Tracy: (Holds flower against Brown's coat.) This would look beautiful against your coat. Shall I show you how to make it? Brown: No, thanks. I could buy one and save the time. (Speaks to Swift.) And you are mending hose that need burning. If those are for charity I should think it would pay to buy new ones. Our time is too valuable to work needlessly. Swift: New ones would be this way in a week. President: Sister Brown, they are renovating clothes in the kindergarten room if you would rather sew. Brown: I think I shall quilt. I haven't time to stay long and I may as well quilt as anything. But the work seems so futile. If we knew who we were doing it for it would give us more of a feeling of getting results. Tracy: I think it is fun not to know. I like to imagine the rooms it might brighten; or the kiddies' delight in its warmth. As for the flowers, since the stake leader taught us how to make them I have sold over fifty dollars worth. Vincent: Have you really? I think that is remarkable. Brown: Very good for pin money but it would never make any real impression on a home. Tracy: (Aside.) That is what you think. Neal: (Flings open door and takes in room with laughing glance. Makes salute.) Ladies. I have arrived. President: We were wondering when you would get to meeting again. 166 Counselor: (Laughing) How did it happen? Neal: To tell the truth it was either come to meeting or have head lines in the morning paper. Secretary: That sounds desperate. Was it really that urgent? Neal: Worse. I had a feeling I should take a vacation. Move over, someone, and let me quilt a fan. Tracy: How about learning something new? Neal: No, thank you. I came to talk, not to learn. I want sociability. Pass the needles. Now where is the thread? Thanks. (Threads needle and sits between two women.) President: You should come every week. Shut in as you are with babies and a sick mother-in-law you need to get away more often. Neal: Oh, no. Oh, no. Lesson days give me no chance to talk and that is why I leave home. Vincent: One can tell you have not been attending classes or you would not have made such a statement. We do give our women opportunity for expression, constructive self-expression. Oakes: (From art table. She is an old poorly dressed woman.) I think it is the lessons that give the Spirit to the work. Neal: Class Leaders must have changed since my day. As I remember them they did all the talking. President: Certainly they change. Relief Society has never stood still. We move forward learning new and better ways. Brown: J was just remarking before you came in, Mrs. Neal, that we need to have our work planned so we shall get better and more certain results. Hall: (Cultured, fashionably dressed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, enters holding girl's coat.) Will you look at this? Would you ever guess this material was ten years old? I am so proud of it. Do you know this is the first time in my life I have ever made over an article of clothing. I am as proud as if it were fancy work. Swift: (Quietly.) It is much better than fancy work. President: It is a work of art, my dear.. Hall: But I could never have done it so well if Mrs. Holden had not been so patient with me. She taught me the steps one by one. When it is done in the right way it is not hard at all. And it is much more interesting than anything I have done before. President: And the beautiful thing about it, Marcia, some little girl will take as much pride in wearing it as you have in making it. Hall: That is one thing I should never have learned outside Relief Society. I started it through a sense of duty and found it to be interesting. I had always thought I was too busy to be bothered with such things. While all the time my closets were crowded with things that might have been used. I shall have another article ready by next work day. (Exits.) President: Time for reports. Where is my secretary? (Sec. Takes books and both exit.) Melton: (Puts head in door.) There is a woman here who wants to see Erva Tracy in a hurry. Tracy: Forme? Are you sure? Melton: Isn't your name Mrs. Orton Tracy? Better hurry. (Exit Tracy and Melton.) Vincent: 1 do hope nothing has happened again. She has had so much trouble lately. Hailey: You would never guess it to see her and she seldom misses RESULTS a meeting. I don't know what the art department would do without her. Brown: That illustrates a point I was trying to make a while ago. We are not practical enough. A woman on relief should by all rights be learning renovating instead of art. (Oakes lifts head sharply.) Neal: Have a little mercy on her. She probably eats, sleeps and has her being with that. A change is good for the soul. Counselor: (Looks up from threading needle.) And she is not on relief. Brown: Oh, I beg pardon. I thought—. Counselor: They were, but when the Church asked its members to get off relief they did so at once. They believed they could find something. Neal: Did they find something? Counselor: Nothing steady yet; but he has been ill, you remember or perhaps you didn't know about It. Vincent: Before Mrs. Brown came in we were discussing the lessons on Child Guidance, Have any of you read the one in this month's magazine? Hailey: My magazine just came yesterday. (She smiles.) Trust Edna to bring us back if we get too near the gossip line. Vincent: When discussing personalities it is easy to drop into gossip. It is such a waste of time when our magazine and lessons give us such a field for constructive thinking. That is the big lesson Relief Society has taught me. It keeps me so busy I have not time for negative thinking. Secretary: (Appears at door.) Will the first district teachers come to report? 167 Counselor: They are working with the machines. (Exit Sec.) I wonder why Erva has not come back. Do you suppose she went home? Baker: (Enters.) I have the Sacrament set washed, Now what shall I do? Counselor: The Refreshment Committee are serving today. Would you like to help them? Baker: Oh, yes. I don't get a chance to do that very often. (Exit. ) Duwart: There, my chair is finished, It has been waiting many years for that new dress. I have kept it in the attic because I couldn't afford to have it upholstered. That chair came across the plains in 1854. Hatley: I didn't know your folks were pioneers. Duwart: Yes. My grandparents were Mormons if I am not. But I like your Relief Society so well who can say what I might be some day. Swift: (Puts last hose in bag.) There. Someone's mind will be at peace for a few days. It must be time for my report. (Exits.) (Enter Tracy looking white and excited.) Hailey: Erva, what is the matter? You look like you had seen a ghost. Sit down. (Urges her toward Duwart's chair. Tracy sits. ) All: Is something wrong? Did someone get hurt? Tracy: (Lifts head. Tries to laugh.) No. Nothing is wrong. But I did see a ghost. The ghost of Hope. Oh, girls, I have work. Work. I can't believe it. Four months at a good salary. Teaching art in a girl's school. (Rises.) Oh, you can't guess what this means to me. 168 Oakes: Yes. I think I know. I know exactly what it means. Tracy: I must go home and tell Ortan. Counselor: (Wiping eyes.) They are going to serve. Can you wait? Tracy: I would rather go at once. Brown: (Stands up suddenly.) Mrs. Tracy, will you let me drive you home? I should love to—after what I said. I want to do it for you. Tracy: Will you? It is such a long walk and I want to get there quickly. (At door she turns.) I shall always be grateful to Relief Society for giving me my chance. My right to take care of my own. When this is done something else will take its place. I know it will. And—and, oh, it isn't just the skill I have developed with my fingers but the lessons, too. They have given me a background. I shall be able to talk to those girls, I shall be able to meet them on their own ground. Baker: (Enters.) Will you all come into the kindergarten room, please. We are ready to serve. (Exit Brown and Tracy.) (Women leave except Counselor and Oakes. Counselor: (To Oakes.) Go on with them. I will get this off the frames so when they get back we can bind it. (Starts taking quilt from frame.) Oakes: Maybe I should bind it at home. Counselor: No. We will finish it for you. It will take only a few minutes. Mrs. Brown isn't as hardboiled as she sounds. You must not mind what she said. Oakes: I don't mind much but she did rile me a little. I suppose I should do better but taking care of grand-children at my age is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE kinda hard. Especially when I have to help with the living, too. I was so thankful you didn't tell her who the work was for. Counselor: Why, we never tell anyone that. One of the first lessons we must learn is to "'not let the right hand know what the left hand does." Oakes: I do appreciate your help. Getting them stockings done alone will save me days of work for I am so slow at that. But didn't Mrs. Brown rile you when she said them things about Relief Society and getting results? Counselor: No. We hear that every once in a while. It is a waste of time to pay any attention to it. After all, eyes see and hearts understand each in its own way. Our work is to find what the women need and supply it if we can. Like Erva Tracy. When she started to our meetings she was starved for something pretty. On the other hand Mrs. Hall has known nothing but beauty and security. We tried to awaken in her a sense of duty toward others not so fortunate as herself. Oakes: You can't always tell, anyhow. Counselor: That is certainly true. Results seldom come in the form in which we expect them. Then why should we try to judge? A more understanding heart than ours will do that. Have you heard the verse that says: "The dream I dreamed was beautiful, most eagerly I tried To bring its counterpart to life but longings were denied; Wearied, at length, I paused, and then this vision came to me, The gain I'd made in effort was my dream's reality." Verse by Della Adams Leitner. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon MARCH Kindnesses freely bestowed are the joy of life and the only riches one takes into eternity. Dk. MAGDA de SPUR, of Budapest, is giving a course of lectures in the United States on comparative conditions of women in the different nations. She laments the fact that today Hungarian women have fewer privileges than they had in the 13th and 14th centuries. Then, they were permitted to serve in their upper legislative house. Dr. MAGNA de Spur said: "You American women, of all others, are treated more like human beings." MME. HETTIE DYHRENFURTH holds the world's record among women for mountain climbing. Last year with her husband she received the Olympic gold medal for the best mountaineering, after their ascent of the Himalaya, "Throne of the Gods." MRS. OSA JOHNSON, deprived forever of the companionship of her valiant husband, keeps up her wonted courage, and in her convalescence from the injuries received in the plane accident, is planning a return to explorations in the jungles. MRS. PATRICK CAMPBELL, erstwhile actress, still beautiful and golden voiced, entertains her friends with readings from her favorite plays and her new book on "Hollywood." LUELLA FERRIN SHARP, one of Zion's sweetest singers, died the last of January. She will be remembered by thousands for her generous bestowal of her gift of song. HELEN HOWE, a new and brilliant monologuist, unlike her contemporary, Cornelia Otis Skinner, uses no scenery, no makeup, no changes of costume beyond a casual scarf, or fan, for a touch of color, yet her "Characters and Caricatures" are living presentations of types and circumstances. DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP and Mrs. Susannah T. Robison, two notable Utah mothers, celebrated their 90th birthdays recently. Both still enjoy their Church and social activities. MRS. REBECCA N. CUTLER and Mrs, Roseltha Hyde Woolf, two notable Relief Society stake presidents, died in the late winter. MARTHA ABBA, of Milan, Italy, is one of the true dramatic artists like Katharine Cornell who has never succumbed to Hollywood gold. Pirandello has dedicated his two last plays to her. JOSEPHINE LAWRENCE'S new novel, "The Sound of Running Feet," is an interesting study of present day sociological problems but like her other novels, it fails to solve them; and yet, who can? PEARL BUCK'S last two books, "The Exile," and "Fighting Angel," like Alice Hobart's "Yang and Yim," treat of missionary life among the Chinese. They are true stories of her mother and father thrillingly and wonderfully told. Notes to Reorganizations AMONG the most recent reorganizations in our Stake Relief Societies are the Duchesne and West Jordan. News of this type always brings with it a certain pang of regret, for in the years of devoted service given by the fine Stake workers a very strong bond is established between the sisterhood of Stake Presidents and the General Board of Relief Society. New Presidents are always welcomed into the fold, and fine cooperation follows, but those who have served for so long and so faithfully never lose their place in the hearts of their co-workers. At the Quarterly Conference held in Duchesne November 21, 1936, Sister Evelyn C. Moffitt was released. Sister Moffitt has served in the organization for the past twenty-eight years, first as President of the Boneta Ward, when the Ward was organized; later she was counselor to Sister Holgate in the old Duchesne Stake, and on June 20, 1920, when the Duchesne and Roosevelt Stakes were divided, Sister Moffitt was chosen as President of Duchesne Stake. The position she has filled faithfully and well until the last conference. Quoting from an account coming from her own locality: "During this period of time she has endeared herself to all of the officers of the Stake and Wards in which she has labored. Her life has been an inspiration, a ray of sunshine and hope to all who have met her. Her home in Summer is a flower garden bursting with beauty and fragrance from early Summer until late Fall; even in the Winter her home is filled with flowers. It is small wonder that when or wherever we meet her her countenance the Field beams with hope, love and charity that make us forget our cares and we look to that which is bigger and better in life." Sister Margaret M. Pace succeeds Sister Moffitt as President, and the best wishes of the Relief Society General Board go to both sisters. HE West Jordan Stake Relief Society was reorganized Sunday, January 10, 1937, at the regular Union Meeting. Sister Mary J. Pixton, who was chosen Stake President May 22, 1927, was released. This was made necessary due to her health which has failed for some time. During the ten years of Sister Pixton's Presidency she has brought to her work a spirit of service and devoted self-sacrifice. The General Board has greatly appreciated the fine cooperation which they have always found in her, and in her retirement the sincere wish is expressed that her health may be completely restored, and that she may live to bless Relief Society with her service for many years yet to come. Sister Evelyn Neilsen, former President of the Riverton Second Ward was chosen to succeed Sister Pixton, and we are very sure that a bright future is in store for this Stake. Daughters' Day T the Presidents' Breakfast at April Conference last year, it was decided by unanimous vote to establish a day in Relief Society in which the mothers might be honored and the daughters brought to see the possibilities and the beauty in Relief Society. We have heard from many quarters that this day was most successfully celebrated, but we wish to correct what seems to be an erroneous NOTES TO THE FIELD impression as to the name. We do not wish to have what might be confusing with other names and days in other organizations, so the name chosen for this particular day in Relief Society is "Daughters' Day." April was selected as the time for the observance of Daughters' Day, as it is the natal month of former President Clarissa S. Williams, who has given more daughters to the world than any other General Relief Society President. The exact date, however, is not as important as the observance. The Stakes are at liberty to choose a time in the Spring or early Summer when they can have the most successful celebration, keeping in mind the honor to our beloved President. Literary Department IN response to numerous requests for reading material, the following list is suggested: "Joseph Smith—An American Prophet"—John Henry Evans. "Charles C. Rich"—John Henry Evans. "Grandmother Brown's Hundred Years"—Harriet Connor Brown. "Audubon'—Constance Rourke. "The Proselyte'—Susan Ertz. "Twenty Years at Hull House" —Jane Addams. "Jane Addams"—J. W. Linn, "My Friend, Julia Lathrop'— Jane Addams. "North to the Orient" —Ann Morrow Lindbergh. "My Garden of Memory"—Kate Douglas Wiggin. "A Backward Glance"'—Edith Wharton. "Take it Easy'—-Walter Pitkin. "An American Doctor's Odyssey"—Victor Heiser, M. D. "Actions and Reactions'—Roger W. Babson. "The Exiles"—Pearl Buck. 171 "Books as Windows'—Mary Lamberton Becker. "Microbe Hunters''—Paul de Kruif. "Men Against Death'—Paul de Kruif. "They Lived: A Story of the Brontes." "Red Mother"'—Frank A. Linderman. "The Prairie President"—Raymond Warren. "Schumann Heink"—The Last of the Titans'"—Mary Lawton. "The Son of Man'—Emil Ludwig. "The Good Earth'—Pearl Buck. "Henry Van Dyke. Biography"— Tertuis Van Dyke.: "Companionable Books'?—Henry Van Dyke. "Little Journeys to the Homes of Famous People'"-——-Elbert Hubbard. "Through Memories Halls'"—Orson F, Whitney. "An American Idyll'—Cordelia S. Parker. "He Knew Lincoln'—Ida M. Tarbell. "Giants in the Earth'—O. E. Rolvaag. "The Book Nobody Knows"— Bruce Barton. "Larry'—The John Day Company. "The Blue Flower,'—Henry Van Dyke. "The Prophet'—Gibraum. Theology Department HE present Theological lessons— the study of "The Ministry of The Savior" — are meeting with great favor and it is said the classes can scarcely wait for the month to pass, because of the interest felt in this much told but ever new story. Neither is this surprising, for where is there a subject so broad 172 and tense; so full of absorbing interest and dramatic situations. It isa story of a life, so brief it can be written by the apostles in less than thirty pages, and yet so full of living values it can be read forever. The teachings of the Savior, so simply, and yet so beautifully drawn, from the depths of social economics to the heights of spiritual furors touch alike the heart of the child and the mind of the sage. Knowledge gained from this study opens the door of the heart and causes one to more clearly valuate and interpret life's problems. It can scarcely help to awaken a desire to serve more nobly, to live more truly, and to judge more kindly. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It is quite natural and in order that these lessons should be followed by testimony bearing, and what rich experiences are brought forth when the soul is charged with the divine spirit, One need not go afar for wondrous or miraculous happenings, for each day brings its own wonders and miracles. True there are in the Church many instances of the manifestations of the holy spirit, and answers to the prayers of faith. Life is full of the goodness and the wisdom of the Lord, to testify of these things and of the joy the gospel brings, strengthens one in faith, and hope, and charity. "Blessed are they that keep his testimonies, and that seek him with the whole heart." FOR WOMEN WHO LOVE TO SEW By Vesta P. Crawford Give to women who love to sew Printed cloth of gay design, Lace that's sheer and webby fine, Organdy for sash and bow, Pink batiste for ruffled clothes, Thread in colors blue and rose; Give to them who love to sew Smallest buttons made of pearl— And give to each a little girl! Notes from the Field Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary  TWIN GROVE'S WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, YELLOWSTONE STAKE Yellowstone Stake HE above picture is that of the officers of the Relief Society in the Twin Groves Ward. This was taken at the close of the seventeenth of March celebration last year. The picture has very special significance to Relief Society as it is so fine a blending of the more mature sisters, with their gentle, sweet faces, expressing the spirit of Relief Society, and the large number of young women who are interested in carrying on the work which has been so well accomplished by their mothers. It is this spirit of youth, seasoned and guided by life experience, that makes the Relief Society able to be the great power for good which we find it in our Stakes. Panguitch Stake N September, 1936, a radio program was given by the new Panguitch Stake Relief Society board honoring the retiring President and her board members. The material considered was the life of President Elizabeth Henderson, from birth until she retired as President of the Panguitch Stake Relief Society. Each Ward in the Stake participated, after which a tribute to the retiring officers was read. This tribute was presented in the form of a poem by Sister Eleanor Bruhn. The first stanza had for its special theme Service; the second, the fidelity to the lesson work; third, fellowship in Relief Society and service to the Lord; fourth, devoted particularly 174 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE CORNISH WARD, BENSON STAKE to "Aunt Lizzie" as the President was familiarly known; and in all of this the development made possible through Relief Society was expressed. Special attention was called to the unselfishness of the President, and following the tribute to Sister Henderson each one of her board members was honored by a special stanza suggested by her predominant qualities. The whole poem was an expression of love and honor for those who had carried the work so successfully during the past, and it breathed hope and faith for the new officers. A birthday cake with fifteen candles and gifts for each of the retiring members were presented to the board. After the serving of light refreshments the delightful entertainment came to a close. Benson Stake THE above picture is a most interesting group of sisters known as the Relief Society Birthday Club. A very delightful custom has grown up in the Cornish Ward of Benson Stake intended to do honor to the sisters whose lives are well advanced, and who have given years of service in Relief Society work. A party is held for each member on or near the date of her birthday. There is a committee appointed from the Ward Relief Society which looks after all the details, except refreshments, which are planned by the Visiting Teachers in the particular district where the honored guest resides. The Teachers and Executive Officers of the Ward supply the materials. It has been a real pleasure to the NOTES FROM THE FIELD TUTTLE WARD, IDAHO STAKE sisters to perform this labor of love, and a great means of increasing the sociability in the Ward. Idaho Stake "THE above picture represents the Relief Society of the Tuttle Ward in Idaho Stake. These sisters have made a very enviable record in Relief Society activity. Among such was the idea of securing subscriptions for the Relief Society Magazine in order to achieve the one hundred percent. Many of the sisters could not afford to take the Magazine, so a plate supper and dance was held. The members of the Relief Society furnished the materials for the supper, and helped prepare it. The proceeds of this were then used to subscribe for the Magazine. In this way the sisters earned their subscription and went over the top. In the Church Security program more than nine thousand cans of fruits and vegetables were provided. Another very splendid accomplishment was the clinic which was held for children from thirteen to eighteen years of age. Tonsils and adenoids were given attention, and more than two hundred and sixteen patients have been aided. Twin Falls Stake WORD comes from the Twin Falls Stake of a very successful program which was carried through in the various Wards as a Ward Conference program. At this time the President made her report, giving as the objective of Relief Society to help all mothers that each may be an inspiration in her home. The class leaders were willing and ready to give to the sisters the benefit of their study that their lives may be enriched. Then follows a detailed statement of the objective of the Theology lesson, as quoted from the report, and just how the work may be treated the first Tuesday. This is followed by the Work and Business program, the aim of which is to create a sisterly feeling and a cooperative spirit by working together and exchanging ideas and lending a helping hand for the relief of the more unfortunate. This is followed by the Literary Lesson on the third 176 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE CHARACTERS IN DRAMATIZATION OF QUEEN ESTHER LA VERKIN WARD, ZION PARK STAKE Tuesday. The subject is Biographies, the story of real people, their struggles, their hopes and dreams and accomplishments. There is nothing more stimulating than contact with a truly great personality. This is followed by the Social Service on the fourth Tuesday. Social service is the service to society, and the responsibility of Relief Society in carrying forth its fine work. Each lesson discussed the different responsibilities to children, home, community, State and Nation. The musical director senses her responsibility, saying: "Music is a sacred, a divine God-like thing given to man by Christ to lift our hearts up to God and make us feel something of the glory and the beauty of God, and of all that He has made." This is followed by a statement of the history of music as it has been sponsored in Relief Society. The Magazine Agent gives her very fine statement in securing subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine, showing how the sisters cannot afford to be without it, as it is their means of spiritual and mental development, Zion Park Stake DURING the latter part of last year a very delightful entertainment was sponsored by the LaVerkin Ward of the Zion Park Stake. Among other activities was the Visiting Teachers' Convention which was held at Springdale in June, and the above picture shows the characters as they were presented in the dramatization of Queen Esther. There was an original song which was given at this time, the words composed by Carmilla Judd, and the music by Mildred Sanders. Lyman Stake A VERY excellent report of the Lyman Stake Relief Society day was sent to the office. Relief Society members from all the Wards of the Stake were in attendance, many of the sisters coming a distance of over one hundred miles to be in attendance. The first meeting began at 10:30. This took the form of a general assembly where the President, Sister Martha Field, gave a report of the year's work. This was supplemented by some of the officers who gave accounts of A RELIEF SOCIETY WORKER particular activities. Notable among these was the fine work of the Singing Mothers, who had practiced some of the songs suggested by the General Committee, and had learned these and furnished their beautiful music. Every Ward in the Stake had a part in the exhibit of all kinds, which included embroidery, cut work, crocheting, knitting, tatting, flowers made from paper and wood fibre, quilts of many designs, braided, woven and hooked rugs, luncheon sets, layettes and hand-painted pictures of various kinds, too numerous to mention, made a display long to be remembered. In addition to the exhibition of finished work a demonstration of rugs from bias strips of woolen material, crocheted with carpet warp, was given by Mrs. Hannah 177 Blackner. This rug has the appearance of chenile, and is very beautiful. At noon a delicious luncheon, served cafeteria style, was provided for all the guests, and' at two o'clock there was a re-assembling of the sisters when a demonstration in Magazine binding was given by trained leaders. This useful art was greatly appreciated as it enables the sisters to take proper care of their magazines and repair books which may need such service. A dance in the evening concluded the fine day's activities, and all felt that it had been one of the most successful ever held in the Lyman Stake. The credit for this was undoubtedly due to the Stake President, her Board and the fine cooperation of the Wards. A RELIEF SOCIETY WORKER By Nephi Jensen In sun or rain she's just the same; In her simplicity And domesticity She's as real as gold's deepest vein. She flashes no pedantic phrase; In sadness or in mirth, Her words are words of worth; And often raised in finest praise. She has the heart of an unspoiled girl, A mother's tender face And a woman's fine grace; For she lives in her boys and girls. She is neither giddy nor gay; She shuns the pace that kills, Her thrills are the heart thrills; That come along Joy's serving way. She spurns the spot-light's dizzy glare; And the maddening swirl Of life's frenzied whirl; For she lives in the light, ever fair. She never covets the front page; She loves serenity Enjoys sublimity; And just grows young with coming age, THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON -.: 3 5 a 7 AMY BROWN LYMAN KATE M. BARKER JULIA A. F. LUND President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Emma A. Empey Nettie D. Bradford Janet M. Thompson Annie Wells Cannon Elise B. Alder Belle S. Spafford Jennie B. Knight Inez K. Allen Donna Durrant Sorensen Lalene H, Hart Ida P, Beal Vivian R. McConkie Cora L. Bennion Marcia K. Howells Leda T. Jensen Amy Whipple Evans Emeline Y. Nebeker Beatrice F. Stevens Rosannah C. Irvine Mary Connelly Kimball Rae B. Barker RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor .. Mary, Connelly Kimball: Manager - - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman VOL. XXIV MARCH, 1937 No. 3 Editorials Our Birthday As we reach our ninety-fifth milestone we rejoice at the flourishing condition our organizations are in all over the world. From the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America, Africa, Europe and the Islands of the Sea, come reports that gladden the heart, for wherever the Church is established the Relief Society functions, aiding the Priesthood, bringing uplift to its members and adding to the efficiency of the work of the Master. Each year our numbers increase. Greater and greater achievements mark each year's endeavor. Our Magazine subscriptions last year reached the highest peak in its history, 41,500. Each year more are participating in the lesson work. The response to the Security Program has been wonderful. We express deepest appreciation to all who have made this success possible. We hope each organization will have a delightful birthday party, one worthy of the Relief Society cause. May the months that will elapse ere another anniversary is celebrated be filled with even greater achievements. Safeguard Children IT has come to our attention that in some remote districts children are suffering from malnutrition. Wherever such conditions prevail Relief Society officers should wage a campaign of education and see what can be done to supply the foods that are necessary to the well being of the little ones. Tomatoes and tomato juice can be bottled. Carrots, turnips, cabbage, parsnips can be stored for winter consumption. Milk is necessary and parents should see that their children get the required amount. LESSON DEPARTMENT 179 Leadership Week WE congratulate the Brigham "Young University on the success of the 1937 Leadership Week. President Franklin S. Harris and Harrison R. Merrill were outstanding in extending hospitality, seeing that everything moved smoothly, that all were comfortable and happy, and that every facility of the institution was available to their guests. The program was as always, very fine. One wished she could be in several sections every period. The hundreds who attended returned to their homes enlightened, inspired, enthused. We are all indebted to the Brigham Young University for this wonderful period when our vision is enlarged, our intellect quickened and our spirits fed. A Fine Spirit of Helpfulness WE have been deeply impressed with the evidence of kind thought that has been manifest by some of our subscribers. Enjoying the Magazine themselves they are anxious that others who cannot themselves subscribe may have it. One sister subscribed for ten of her friends. One of our well known writers sends several subscriptions to Great Britain each year. She furnishes the money and asks those at the head of the work there to suggest to whom the Magazine 'shall be sent. Box Elder Stake recently sent in $4.00, $2.00 from the Stake Board and $2.00 from the Fifth Ward of Brigham City. They asked that Sister Rich of the Canadian Mission suggest to whom these four subscriptions should be sent. This is a fine spirit of helpfulness and 'will do much missionary service. Lotta Paul Baxter Released E regret to announce that Sister Lotta Paul Baxter owing to the condition of her health has asked to be released from the General Board. She has been one of our most efficient and most beloved members, and we are sure all will join us in regretting her departure from our number and will earnestly pray that health, strength and happiness may be her future portion. Four New Board Members WE are glad to announce the addition of four new Board Members—Sisters Vivian R. McConkie, Leda T. Jensen, Beatrice F. Stevens, and Rae B. Barker. We are introducing these members to you in our next Magazine. Their past records show that they will do most efficient work,-and we know our Sisters will learn to love them as they work with them. Lesson Department (For First Week in May) Theology and Testimony Lesson 8 The Christ AND THE GATHERING OF ISRAEL Helpful References In the Bible: Deuteronomy 30:1-5; Isaiah 5:25-26; 11:11-12; 14:1-2; 35:4, 10; 43:5-7; 54:7; Jeremiah 3:12-15, 18; 16:14-16; 23:2-4, 7-8; 31:7-12; Micah 4:1-2; Matthew 15:24; 24:31; John 10:16; Revelation 18:4. See also "Ready References." In the Book of Mormon: I Nephi 10:14; 19:15-17; 2 Nephi 6:11; 9:2; 10:7; 30:7-8; Jacob 6:2; 3 Nephi 5:26; 20:29-33; 21:1; 26- 28. In the Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 29:7-8; 42:36; 45:17, 25, 43, 69; 57:1-2; 58:56; 63:36; 101:13, 20- 22, 64-69; 105:24; 110:11; 125: 2; 133:7, 26-35. Smith: The Way to Perfection, Chapter 20. Talmage: Articles of Faith, Chapters 18, 19. 1. Israel the Spiritual Leavening Agent in the World. It is of special significance that the Christ was born of an Israelite mother and brought up among the Israelites. It is perhaps of greater significance that His personal ministry was confined to Israelites. Why was this? It can scarcely be accidental. Nor to the Latter-day Saints is it such. In the economy of God the Israelite nation was seemingly chosen to be the spiritual leavening agent in the world. The Old Testament bears record of this, as also does the New Testament. These books cannot be properly understood without knowing that the salvation of the human race is in great measure linked up with the fortunes of the house of Israel. Jehovah, the pre-existent Christ, once said to Abraham, "I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee above measure, and make thy name great among all nations, and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations; and I will bless them through thy name; for as many as receive this Gospel shall be called after thy name, and shall be accounted thy seed, and shall rise up and bless thee, as their father." (Abraham 2:9-10.) Thus it is seen how the Redeemer planned to send forth His word by a people especially delegated and chosen. The declaration of the Christ to the woman of Samaria that "salvation is of the Jews" (John 4:22) is also in accord with the promise made to Abraham. On another occasion our Lord said, "T am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel." (Matthew 15:24.) When He appeared to the Nephites, the Christ confirmed and extended our understanding of the peculiar relationship existing between Himself and the House of Israel. (3 Nephi 15:11- 16, 20.) 2. Israel To Be Gathered Preparatory To Reign of Peace. Israel through the centuries has LESSON DEPARTMENT. Been alternately blessed and punished according to her regard or disregard of the covenant made with God. She has been scattered, but even in this the wisdom of a wise Creator can be seen. The Savior taught, as did the prophets before Him, that Israel should eventually be gathered to help bring to pass God's purposes preparatory to a reign of peace among men. While speaking of the latter days, Christ declared, "And now I show unto you a parable. Behold, wheresoever the carcass is, there will the eagles be gathered together; so likewise shall mine elect be gathered from the four quarters of the earth." (Pearl of Great Price, An Extract from 'a translation of the Bible, verse 27.) 3. Not All of Israel To Be Gathered To Palestine. Unfortunately, the Gospels do not contain in fulness the Savior's instructions concerning the gathering. They. Are limited in their scope; we have to rely on the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, to give us a clearer insight to His interpretation of this doctrine. It is plain that the Christ in His teachings about the Gathering refers to distinct groups of Israelites. We shall see this as we proceed. "And I will remember the covenant which I have made with my people; and I have covenanted with them that I would gather them together in mine own due time, that I would give unto them again the land of their fathers for their inheritance, which. Is the land of Jerusalem, which is the promised land unto them forever, saith the Father." (3 Nephi 20:29.) This scripture cannot mean that all of the House of Israel will be gathered to Palestine. Doubtless it refers to the greater portion of them, the house of 181 Joseph mostly being excepted. Christ in speaking to the Nephites, said, "And it shall come to pass that I will establish my people, O house of Israel. And behold, this people will I establish in this land, unto the fulfilling of the covenant which I made with your father Jacob; and it shall be a New Jerusalem." (3 Nephi 20:21-22.) The Jaredite prophet, Ether, was also permitted to see in vision the establishment of the remnant of the house of Joseph on this continent. "Behold, Ether saw the days of Christ, and he spake concerning a New Jerusalem upon this land. And he spake also concerning the house of Israel, and the Jerusalem from whence Lehi should come—after it should be destroyed it should be built up again, a holy city unto the Lord; wherefore, it could not be a new Jerusalem for it had been in a time of old; but it should be built up again, and become a holy city of the Lord; and it should be built unto the house of Israel. And that a New Jerusalem should be built up upon this land, unto the remnant of the seed of Joseph, for which things there has been a type.... Wherefore, the remnant of the house of Joseph shall be built upon this land; and it shall be a land of their inheritance; and they shall build up a holy city unto the Lord, like unto the Jerusalem of old; and they shall no more be confounded, until the end come when the earth shall pass away." (Ether 13:4-6, 8.) It is thus plain that the house of Joseph, comprising the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh, will be gathered and remain on this continent. They will inherit it together with the righteous Gentiles. (3 Nephi 21:22-28.) 4. The Savior Speaks of the Lost Tribes of Israel. The Savior, while yet among the 182 Nephites, referred to a distinct body of Israelites other than the Jews and His immediate audience. He declared, "'And verily, verily, I say unto you that I have other sheep, which are not of this land, neither of the land of Jerusalem, neither in any parts of that land round about whither I have been to minister. For they of whom I speak are they who have not as yet heard my voice; neither have I at any time manifested myself unto them. But I have received a commandment of the Father that I shall go unto them, and that they shall hear my voice, and shall be numbered among my sheep, that there may be one fold and one shepherd; therefore I go to show myself unto them." (3 Nephi 16: i-3.) The "sheep" referred to by the Christ without doubt were the so-called "lost" tribes of Israel, the Ten Tribes, for our Lord had already appeared to the Jews and to the remnant of Joseph as represented by the Nephites. But the Israelites mentioned by Him can scarcely have been the ancestors of the body of Israel in the Church today, as many people contend. We should certainly have had some traditions about the appearance of the Christ to them, but we have not. Our patriarchs pronounce us as mainly of Ephraim. The Doctrine and Covenants speaks plainly of the "ten tribes" and makes a special distinction between them and the other portion of Israel. The Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in a joint revelation say, "And Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel froth the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north." (Doctrine and Covenants 110:11.) If the present generation in the Church consists of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Ten Tribes, then we see no point in the distinction the revelation makes between "the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth," and "the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the North." (See also Doctrine and Covenants 133: 26-35.) Suffice it to say, that the gathering of the Ten Tribes is an important part of the work of the Christ in this dispensation; but the gathering is to occur in the future. Speculation as to the exact place where the Ten Tribes are at present is fruitless and is of no special importance to us. We can be sure the Lord will do His work at the appointed time and place. 5. The Gathering of Israel Attracts the Attention of the World. The gathering of the house of Israel is a significant factor in calling the attention of the peoples of the world to the plan of salvation. Many souls have already been led, and many will yet be led, into the fold of Christ by virtue of their curiosity in the movements, and in the teachings of the house of Israel. "Behold, I will send for many fishers, saith the Lord, and they shall fish them; and after will I send for many hunters, and they shall hunt them from every mountain, and from every hill, and out of the holes of the rocks." (Jeremiah 16:16.) Questions 1. Why should there be a "chosen" people? In what sense is God impartial so far as all His children are concerned? 2. Why is it necessary for Israel to be gathered? 3. Why is the Church at present not emphasizing the gathering to a particular place? 4. To what lands will the tribes of Israel be gathered? LESSON DEPARTMENT Problems (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.) 1. Show in as many ways as you can how the nations of the earth have been blessed by the scattering and gathering of Israel. 2. Point out how it is impossible to understand the Bible properly 183 without adequate knowledge of the part Israel is to play in the salvation of mankind. 3. From a consideration of recent events show how the Jews may be gathered to Palestine. 4. Explain as well as you can why the Christ ministered only to the house of Israel. Teacher's Topic (For May). THE Goop SAMARITAN Luke 10:25-37 ND, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? "He said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou? "And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself. "And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right; this do, and thou shalt live. "But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbor? "And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. "And by chance there came down a certain priest that way; and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. "And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side. "But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was; and when he saw him, he had compassion on him. "And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. "And on the morrow, when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves? "And he said, He that showed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise." In the question, 'Who is my neighbor?" Christ shows the person is our neighbor who is in need. This parable exposes those who make great pretentions but whose lives are not consistent with them.. The Samaritans were hated and despised by the Jews. They would have no dealings with them. Christ spoke this parable to the Pharisees 184 who in their proud self-righteousness held aloof from all others. According to their teachings none but Jews would be considered neighbors. The good Samaritan permitted no consideration of family, friendship, personal inconvenience or nationality to influence him in his work of charity. It was enough for him that the unhappy man lying there on the road needed his help, Before the Samaritan resumed his journey he finished his work of charity; he did all that was necessary to be done. To this beautiful example which he had related) Jesus added this question, (Luke 10:36): 'Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE However the lawyer might feel about what a Samaritan would do, he must admit that the good Samaritan had proved himself a neighbor to the poor unfortunate man. Christ added, "Go and do thou likewise." That is, to give service to any one who needs your help, for he is your neighbor. No doubt you could relate instances where the spirit of the good neighbor has been shown and where true neighborliness has not consisted alone in giving material relief. Discussion According to this parable could there be an individual unworthy of assistance if he were in need? How can one be "a good neighbor" in our present day? Work and Business Floors AND Floor Coverings Handicraft, pp. 28-30 HE floor, besides serving as a support for the furnishings of a room and affording a stable and level footing for the occupants, is the real foundation for the equipment of a room. If this foundation is not good, the effectiveness of all the rest of the room is greatly reduced. Floors may be made of a large variety of materials, but wood seems to be the best for most indoor rooms. Concrete, tile, mosaic stone, and brick all have their place, but are not desirable where people sit and have their feet in contact with the floor for any length of time. However, a floor may have the appearance of tile by following the instructions given on page 28 in "Handicraft For Every Woman." The kind of wood to use for a floor is a matter of individual taste. Oak is the most popular because of its beautiful grain, rich coloring, strength and durability. Maple, beech, birch, pine and fir are also used. No matter of what material the floor may be made, the finish is an exceedingly important consideration. Since the floor is also the background of the room, it should always be the heaviest note, as dark colors suggest qualities of strength and support. It has been said that a dark color and a wax finish constitute the magic formula for floors whether they be hard wood or soft Old floors where the physical condition is good but the surface is not satisfactory for waxing may very advantageously be stained or painted with floor or deck paint, or they LESSON DEPARTMENT may be effectively grained by following directions found in "Handicraft For Every Woman," pages 28 to 30. No floor is so bad that it cannot be made really good looking with stain or paint properly applied. Walnut is the first choice in color for a floor stain, since it is dark and glows with beautiful reflections, and it is so neutral that it blends with any furniture. If the floor is in bad condition with uneven boards and unsightly cracks, a crack-filler will work wonders. Then, too, the floor that is painted some color is decorative, especially with a rag rug or a hooked rug as coverings. Some helpful suggestions for making rugs are found in "Handicraft For Every Woman," pages 98 to 100. In most rooms the rug covers so much of the floor surface that it in reality becomes the foundation. The decoration of a room begins with the floor coverings, which act as a keynote. For all furnishings. Choose the rug to contrast with the walls. A contrasting color gives a richer effect than a corresponding color; that is, if walls are brown or tan, a blue rug or one in which blue predominates will be more effective than a brown or a tan one. The correct balance of values between floor coverings and walls adds a sense of space and airiness to the room that cannot otherwise be obtained. Rugs break a room up, making it look smaller, while carpets draw it together giving the maximum appearance in size. For a long narrow room the use of a carpet is the only way to avoid the appearance of a hall. The size of the rug is important; decorators tell us that a too 185 small rug is as much a misfit as a too small dress. The question of durability in floor coverings is most important. The better grades of domestic rugs such as the Wiltons, Axminsters, and Chenilles are made very much in the same way as the Orientals with a high upstanding pile which is closely and firmly bound together at the back, and they are fully as durable as the Orientals. Then, too, as in the Orientals, the yarn in the better grades of domestic rugs is dyed in the skein before being woven. Since the wool forms the entire face and wearing surface of a rug or carpet, the amount used is a big factor. One can usually tell something about the amount of wool by the height of the pile and the closeness of the weave. The quality of a Wilton rug is judged by looking at the back. The more rows per inch the better the grade. Linoleum is another useful covering; in fact, it is one of the popular demands of the day. It has been said that linoleum has "come out of the kitchen" and found a welcome in living room, dining room, bed room, and hall. Fiber rugs and grass rugs are colorful and serviceable for use in sunrooms and porches. After acquiring a perfect floor covering treat it with respect, for care and economy. Regular cleaning of rugs to prevent dirt from working down into the back and possibly cutting the threads, and removing spots before they have had a chance to get ground into the pile, will keep the floor covering looking fresh and will add vastly to their length of life. 186 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Literature (For Third Week in May) Lesson VIII Julia Warp Howe IN THE autumn of 1844 Mrs. Howe returned to America, and located in what was known as the ''Doctor's Wing" of the Perkins Institution. Up until now she had known Boston only as a visitor. "She had been the acknowledged queen of her home and circle in New York. Now there were many adjustments to make. She was the wife of a man who had neither time nor inclination for society; a man of tenderest heart but of dominant personality, accustomed to rule—" a man devoted to causes to her known only by name, one who was to spend comparatively little time in the home. The daughters Laura and Maud, respectively, Mrs. Richards and Mrs. Elliott, who are the writers of the biography, say of their father that during the thirty-four years of their mother's married life, "the doctor was captain beyond dispute; yet sometimes the mate felt she must take her own way and took it quietly." Nevertheless, while the book gives ample evidence that Mrs. Howe had problems to meet which any woman must have, married to a man who was both physician and philanthropist, yet there is abundant evidence that she was happily married, and that the children, six in number, enjoyed greatly the home their parents made for them. Dr. Howe soon discovered that his wife was not comfortable at the Perkins Institution so he purchased Green Peace, which turned out to be the children's "Paradise." As Green Peace was out from the heart of Boston, they sometimes spent the winters in Boston, where Mrs. Howe indulged her liking for company, and met, as was her wont through life, the prominent people of her time. It was while she was at Green Peace that she wrote: "Boston has been greatly enlivened during the past month by a really fine opera, with a fine orchestra and chorus, all Italians. The Prima Donna is an artist of the first order, and has an exquisite voice. I have had season tickets and have been nearly every night. This is a great indulgence, as it is very expensive, and I have one of the best boxes in the house, but 'Chev' is the most indulgent of husbands. Think of all he allows me, a house and garden, a delicious carriage and pair of horses." Her daughters say that through her life and her long widowhood she never ceased to call for their father particularly if excited. "Chev" was her usual name. At times we glimpse the long hours of waiting growing out of his many interests. In August, 1846, she wrote to her sister Louisa from Bordentown, where she appears to have been vacationing, "Sumner and Chev came hither with us, and passed two days and nights... Philanthropy goes ahead, and slavery will be abolished, and so shall we." These were the days when the young wife sang in her nursery: "Rero, rero, riddlety rad, This morning my baby caught sight of her Dad. Quoth she, 'Ah Daddy, where have you been?' LESSON DEPARTMENT 'With Mann and Sumner a-puttingdown-sin!' " In 1846 she spent the winter at the Winthrope House in Boston. She writes to her sister Annie who was the youngest of the three sisters: "I have been singing and writing poetry, so you may know I have been happy." She tells later of the friends she entertained. Sometimes they were interested in music and sometimes something else. Sometimes William Storey was at her home at other. Times it was Agassiz, whom she spoke of as "the learned and charming Frenchman." The winter of 1847 was also spent in Boston. John Greenleaf Whittier was a visitor that season. This is what she says of him: "I shall always be glad I saw the poet Whittier in his youth and mine. Sumner, I think, brought him to our rooms and introduced him to me. His eyes glowed like black diamonds—his hair was of the same hue, brushed back from his forehead.... A year or two later my husband invited him to dine, but was detained so late that I had a tete-a-tete of half an hour with Mr. Whittier. We sat near the fire rather shy and silent, both of us. Whenever I spoke to Whittier, he hitched his chair nearer to the fire. At last Dr. Howe came in. I said to him afterwards, 'My dear, if you had been a little later, Mr. Whittier would have gone up the chimney." Mrs. Howe's first child was a girl named Julia. The second child was also a girl. Mr. Howe wished for a son, as fathers are wont to do; but said jokingly to his wife, after the arrival, that "he would forgive her" if she would name her Florence after Florence Nightingale. They had met Florence Nightingale in London. She was then a young woman of twenty-four. She asked 187 Dr. Howe if he thought it would be "unsuitable or unbecoming" for a young Englishwoman to devote herself to works of charity in hospitals and elsewhere, as the Catholic Sisters did. The Doctor replied: "My dear Miss Florence, it would be unusual, and in England whatever is unusual is thought to be unsuitable; but I say to you, go forth if you have a vocation for that way of life; act up to your inspiration, and you will find that there is never anything unbecoming or unladylike in doing your duty for the good of others." The third child was a boy named Henry. Today I think we should describe him as "a lively number." Then came Laura, named after Laura Bridgman, and later Maud. Sometimes those who knew the activities of the parents wondered about the children. To this the daughters answer: "The little Howes were having perhaps the most wonderful childhood that ever children had." At Green Peace they climbed cherry trees, picnicked on the terrace behind the house, played in the fish pond, they were always merry, vigorous, and robust. Sometimes they played in the great dining room, where Flossy would do the dagger dance from Lady Macbeth. Then perhaps the door would open and in would come their father as a bear in his fur overcoat "growling horribly," then they would scamper to the corners "in terrified delight." At other times they gathered around the piano where their mother sang to them the songs of all nations. But as the sixties approached there were dark days in the nation and dark days in the Howe home. Christmas day, 1859, Mrs. Howe gave birth to a second son, named Samuel Gridley, which was his father's name. "His little life was all beautiful, all bright." He was the 188 companion of his mother's walks, the delight of his father's few leisure hours. "For him new songs were made, new games invented. Both parents looked forward to fresh youth and vigor in the sweet companionship. This was not to be. Little Sam died of diphthertic croup May 17, 1863." This heavy sorrow for a time crushed both his parents. His father became seriously ill from grief. His mother found some relief in nursing him and caring for the others; but she wrote to her sister Annie, "I cannot yet write what has come to me, Chev and I feel that we are baptized into a new order oi suffering—those who have lost children, loving them, can never be like those who have not." Then came the Civil War. A month before Little Sammy's birth, Mrs. Howe wrote, saying: "Chev has been greatly overdone by anxiety and labor for Brown." Then comes her own comment about John Brown. "The attempt I must judge insane but the spirit heroic..:. The gallows cannot dishonor him—he will hallow it." In 1861 Mrs. Howe went to Washington with Governor and Mrs. Andrews of Massachusetts, Mrs. Clark and her husband. Her carriage was surrounded by marching regiments. She and her companions sang the songs everyone was singing. Among others 'John Brown's Body." "The _ soldiers were pleased and called out 'Good for you!'" Mr. Clark said to Mrs. Howe, "Why do you not write some good words to that stirring tune?" She replied, "I have often wished to do so." Next morning as she lay waiting for the break of day the words came to her. First, "Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Lord." She lay perfectly still. Line by line, stanza by stanza, the words came sweeping on with the rhythm of marching feet. She saw the long lines swinging into place before her eyes, heard the voice of the nation speaking through her lips. She waited till the voice was silent, till the last line was ended; then sprang from bed, and groping for pen and paper, scrawled in the gray twilight the 'Battle Hymn of the Republic.' " The hymn was first published in the ''Atlantic Monthly." "It made its way rapidly. It was sung, chanted, recited, and used in exhortation and prayer on the eve of battle.... It was the word of the hour and the Union armies marched to its swing." A negro brought word of the victory at Gettysburg to the Northern soldiers in Libby prison. Then McCabe, the fighting chaplain, stood up in the midst of the prisoners and sang, "Glory, glory, hallelujah." After he was released he told of his prison experience at a great meeting in Washington. When he came to Gettysburg "he sang the 'Battle Hymn' once more." People shouted and wept. When the song was ended the voice of Abraham Lincoln was heard, as he exclaimed, "'sing it again!" Browning says, "A man's reach should exceed his grasp or what's a heaven for?" Mrs. Howe certainly reached high when she wrote the hymn. She wrote many good poems but the "Battle Hymn of the Republic," was her supreme achievement. Elsewhere there is authority for the fact that she received $500 for it. This being true, it is $300 more than she received for her first volume of poetry published under the title "Passion Flowers." While in Washington Mrs. Howe saw Abraham Lincoln. He was seated so near the famous portrait LESSON DEPARTMENT of Washington by Stewart as to suggest comparison. Mrs. Howe writes: "On the canvas we saw the calm presence, serene assurance of the man who has successfully accomplished a great undertaking, a vision of health and peace. In the chair beside sat a tall, bony figure devoid of grace, a countenance almost redeemed from plainness by two kindly blue eyes, but overshadowed by the dark problems of the moment." Questions 1. What is Florence Nightingale's claim to fame? Why would a man of Mr. Howe's temperament be interested in her? 2. You have in the lesson a pen sketch of John Greenleaf Whittier and one of Abraham Lincoln. Mrs. Howe uses few strokes; does she make you see both men vividly? 3. Where was the Battle Hymn of the Republic first published? 4. Do you think there is both spirit and artistry in the Battle Hymn 189 of the Republic? If not, tell why. 5. Select some phrases from the poem that sound like the tramp of an army. 6. Which of the five stanzas do you think most poetic? Which is your favorite? 7. Julia Ward Howe says: "From my childhood the Bible had been dear and familiar to me." Trace references from the Bible in the "Battle Hymn of the Republic." Such references not only supply the suggestive quality in which good poetry abounds, but it gives us a figure of speech known as literary echoing. 8. Is there reverence in the hymn? Select some phrases that indicate reverence. 9. Do you think the hymn merits its great popularity? Have the "Battle Hymn" sung and also read it to the class if there is time. Note: Added material may be obtained by reading "Julia Ward Howe," by Laura E. Richards and Maud Howe Elliott. If so, tell why. Social Service Lesson VII THE OBSERVANCE OF THE Law Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chs. 17 and 18. HE BEHAVIOR of the members of society to each other as individuals and in regard to group life as a whole has always been one of the important problems of social life. The attitudes that people build up towards the rights of others, and the willingness with which they temper their actions for the good of all largely determine 'the atmosphere of government. Government has been organized as an administrative power to control and regulate behavior. It is the outgrowth of the small occurrences that underlie the general trend of daily life and may be likened to a rope in which each strand and twist contributes to its character. But some people feel that the social inheritance which has come down through the generations in the name of liberty and freedom grants them the privilege of being a law unto themselves without due regard for the consequences of their actions. They sometimes claim that individual rights justify behavior which is 190 not in harmony with public welfare. Such rights, sometimes called personal liberty, are the outgrowth of centuries of previous experience. But as society has developed and its institutions have become more complex the manner of expressing one's rights has been changed to meet new conditions. The rules which have been devised to govern individual actions have been accepted as laws with the principle of group welfare in mind quite as much as for the protection of individual rights from the unprincipled actions of others, or of individual rights in the name of personal freedom. The willingness with which people comply with these rules, or the laws of government, constitutes the great problem of law observance. The subordination of individual desires to the interests of the group comprises the problem of social control. Greater social control and more willing obedience to the law is an important need of the day. To improve the individual reactions to group situations and to law observance for the benefit of society as a whole, the following purposes will be developed: First: To show the relationship between personal liberty and the social order. Second: To develop an attitude which will contribute to better law observance. Personal liberty may be defined as the rights, privileges, and immunities which are possessed by an individual by virtue of his birth and citizenship. They are his guides in the pursuit of happiness. But since the dawn of history the term "personal liberty" has received various interpretations which have given rise to a great deal of conflict and confusion in its application to humanity. Its present status has been achieved RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at incalculable costs. Every country points with pride to national figures who have given freely of their property, efforts, and even of their lives to bring justice and freedom to its citizens. The roster of national heroes is made up of just such fearless and courageous characters. National spirit and loyalty has thus been developed. The American and French Revolutions were fought in the name of liberty. It is no wonder that today it is considered one of the priceless treasures of humanity and one which should be defended at all cost! In the days when life was simple the privileges of personal liberty were very different from the privileges in the complex industrial world of modern times..' In the agricultural age man lived largely by himself, and, to a wide extent, his pleasures were whatever his fancy desired. Probably, the deepest tradition in the hearts of those who people the North American continent is laid in an agricultural foundation. There are three governments represented on this continent: The Canadian, the United States, and the Mexican. But there are many more nationalities. The population of these various countries is composed of the greatest mixture of peoples on earth. Also, the history of North America has been too brief to establish deep roots in the generations which have occupied the land. Therefore, without long established family traditions, without the welding force of a single race or nationality in any one of the governmental provinces (which condition is especially true of the United States), and without the background of age, relatively speaking, it is natural that the traditions of the countries mentioned should stem from the agricultural period which LESSON DEPARTMENT was the beginning of life in America as it spread from border to border and from coast to coast. It is probably the greatest single common bond in the otherwise contrasting hearts of the people of the American nation. For even those who have come to this country as immigrants since the agricultural age inherit the ideal of personal freedom and rugged individualism which has come down as the common heirloom of this era in American history. And that inheritance, as embodied in the agricultural tradition, places a tremendous emphasis on the ideal of personal liberty and freedom. But it is well known that personal liberty as an ideal has lost much of its gilt-edge meaning in the impact of the industrial age upon the agricultural life. Life has become exceedingly complex. Economic power has become more centered in the hands of the minority, and the destinies of the many are controlled by the few as far as money is concerned. But even this condition has not deprived the great mass of the American people from still enjoying the greatest amount of personal liberty ever known in organized society since the dawn of history. However, since the disappearance of the frontier and the centralization of population, a great socializing force has been brought to bear upon this ideal. And with the increasing complexity of society, personal liberty cannot be maintained without a realization of the relationship of the individual to the group. A well-ordered society depends upon the ascendency of the group over the individual. Personal freedom is an extended condition which reaches from the smallest unit of group life to the largest. Government has been organized to control this ascendency. And individual reactions must be 191 tempered to meet the requirements of group life if the maximum amount of personal freedom is to be enjoyed. Most people are familiar with the inalienable rights which are rehearsed in all of our civic teachings. Among these may be mentioned particularly the privilege of worshiping according to one's conscience, the - freedom of speech, the freedom of the press, and the right to earn an honest living. When life was simple these ideals could be carried out with little regard as to what others might be doing. But as people became more dependent upon one another a greater amount of action in common has come to be recognized as essential to life. This can be accomplished only by the giving up of individual wishes and desires for the sake of the common welfare, or in deference to social judgment and social needs. Another approach to this problem may be made from the educational standpoint. It is a mistake to look upon the child who is trained under the so-called system of "child-centered" education as the privileged child if such training grants him greater freedom than is commensu rate with group life, as he is bound to discover when he attempts to take his place in society. It is the child who is taught the social ideal of the welfare of all and respect for governing powers who is privileged. The social ideal cannot be taught too early in life. And it is just as important for those people who enjoy special privileges and opportunities from economic favor to learn to appreciate the social ideal as it is for the really under-privileged to learn that jealousy, envy and destructive tendencies will not bring about their ideas of personal freedom. To develop harmony of living, or 192 to promote ways of life in which action in common is shared, laws are made for all people to follow. Some laws are permissive, that is, they grant permission to do certain things. Others are prohibitive, and deny the right of undesirable actions. Back of both types of regulation is the essential thought of directing the actions of all for the common good. These rules form the basic law of the land. Since liberty aims to preserve inherited rights for the individual, obedience to law is liberty. Unless the will of the people, as expressed in law, is carried out. The people do not rule. But liberty is secure only as the people actually do govern. Law restrains the arbitrary interference of one person with another. The strong are inclined to take advantage of their strength and destroy the liberty of others. It is the function of law to secure freedom for all and to protect it from destruction at the hands of the violent and the ruthless. Since the greatest amount of personal liberty cannot be enjoyed without some restraining power on those who would take advantage of others, that power, or force, is exercised by government. It is essential that there must be law and a government that has the force to execute the law if there is to be liberty. Such regulation is society's way of preserving the maximum number of personal rights and privileges for each individual. 'The second problem in this lesson, namely: The creation of a sentiment in favor of greater law observance is vital to every living soul. Not only are peace and happiness dependent upon it, but the safety of life itself. A growing toll of death from the careless and_ reckless drivers, the jay-walker who crosses the street at the wrong place, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE merchant who misrepresents the goods he sells, the dairyman who fails to observe principles of sanitation, and the family which knowingly spreads the unseen disease germ are but a few among the thousands of cases which are daily challenging our freedom in the pursuit of happiness. Each violation reveals the need for a greater social consciousness and an improved attitude toward law observance. The need for education in this field is revealed by the fact that most persons acquire their attitudes and political philosophies in family life rather than through any process of individual analysis or careful study. The teachings in the family and the example of every action should contribute to the creation of a social attitude. Each citizen shares in the moral obligation to maintain the law. One who aims to live by his rights alone is not fulfilling his entire social obligation. Rights alone are not a sufficient basis for a settled social order. The only possible basis for such an order is the conscious recognition by each individual of his obligation to make the observance of law a reality, even though the law may at times fail to accord with his personal wishes and interests. Growing out of this principle is another thought. Because laws are often neither wise nor just, the possibility of changing them should not be too difficult. It often happens that a law is passed which is in advance of the moral standing of the people. A period of confusion and law violation follows. During the adjustment many justify the ignoring of the law or even its open violation on the grounds that it infringes upon their liberty or some inherited principle. As long as the law exists each one should obey its LESSON DEPARTMENT principles. Those who feel that it should be changed should register their protests in the manner prescribed by law, but they should continue to obey it as long as it remains upon the statute books. Laws regulating the traffic and speed of automobiles are examples of the bad effect that the ignoring and personal interpretation of regulations can have upon society. The annual death toll of over 36,000 people in the United States alone and the injury of upwards of 1,000,000 more testifies to the greatest disrespect for law ever known to a well organized country. Thus the evil is two-fold in its nature. Many of the guilty and careless speed demons undoubtedly believe that the law violates the individual's personal rights. But apparently those people have never been taught the right of society to control the actions of the individual for the good of society. The responsibility for teaching this attitude rests with the basic institutions of society, namely, the home, the schools, and the church. The church, particularly, has a peculiar responsibility as an agent of culture and social control. Perhaps too much time is spent expounding dogma and not enough effort is placed upon an attempt to modify human behavior. Both phases are essential to a well-rounded life, but the opportunity for the latter is not recognized by many religious teachers. Several avenues of approach are open to those who would improve the social conduct of others. People may be appealed to through a sense 193 of social justice, through the desire for sociability, through the power of social and personal suggestions, through the force of personal ideals, and through the sense of justice and fair play. Too often we expect action to be modified by an appeal to authority. Such a method is usually ineffectual, especially with the young adolescent. An appeal to the natural emotions and desires is far more effective than detached information of an intellectual nature. The first obligation, then, of a citizen is to obey the law. The duty is binding whether one likes a given legislative act or not. Every one should use his influence to promote the attitude of law observance in both private and public life. When all people can so order their lives, law observance will be a reality instead of a goal toward which society is striving. Activities 1. Make a list of the laws which are most frequently violated in your community. Prepare a short talk which could be delivered to the violators which would persuade them to observe the law. Be sure the appeal is made on the basis of the experiences of the listeners. 2. Name a few characters in Church history or local community life who have been good citizens in the highest sense. What are the qualities in the lives of these individuals that have made them ideal citizens? Show the relationship of these qualities to the principles developed in this lesson. 194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Child Guidance Lesson 8 Some SUGGESTIONS ON THE PARENT-CHILD RELATIONSHIP N INTENSE emotional experience, as we learned in the lessons on anger and fear, tends to become associated with all the circumstances surrounding the child at the time. The frightening of a child with threats of the bogy man and punishing him severely act as boomerangs to the parent; the child associates the parent with the unpleasant experience. Since the parent is likely to be interested in getting immediate results, she loses sight of an extremely important consideration, one that should enter into the parent's thinking whenever any treatment is given the child; how does it affect our relationship to each other? Are we going to get along better or worse, eventually, because of what I do now? Concentrated thinking on the parent-child relationship is the prime condition for successful child management. The parent, for better or for worse, always enters into every discipline picture. When sight is lost of the importance of the relationship itself, we see the parent who may get immediate results from giving a sound and impulsive thrashing. But at what cost? At the price of losing the cooperativeness, or rapport, of the child. No discipline is effective by the severest test when rapport does not prevail. Rapport here means a certain kind of intimate and friendly cooperativeness. In this lesson we shall merely mention a few conditions that destroy a good relationship between the parent and the child, and attempt to suggest how a good relationship can be established and maintained. Every parent is bound to make many mistakes in attempting to work through the numerous details of training a child; but if the relationship can be restored and kept wholesome, she is likely to be a successful mother. One of her first struggles in maintaining this ideal, is to overcome the desire to keep the child preserved as a baby. The attention of such a mother is obviously diverted from the child and the relationship to her selfish interest. If the mother's love is enlightened, she will permit the child to grow at his optimum rate. This point was elaborated in an earlier lesson on development. The parent's problem persists throughout the growth of the child and becomes particularly acute during adolesence when the child begins to change into an adult and to live his own life with a newborn thirst for freedom. The need for a wholesome relationship at this period is as obvious as it is difficult to achieve. To see the youth's point of view is more imperative during adolescence than at any other age. But to look at earlier childhood further, the innumerable frustrations through which a child must go, and the many more unnecessary ones, permit a parent to break down the good relationship that might have carried over from the fondling days of infancy. '"Don'ting" a child unnecessarily is a fertile cause of poor cooperation. But the question may be asked, What can be done for the child who persists in opening the refrigerator and taking all the lids off the bottles, who must throw things in the living room or across the dinner table, and «who throws himself on the floor when you show affection for his little sister? The LESSON DEPARTMENT first thing to do is to inquire into why he does these acts, because if you don't know his reasons, your treatment is likely to fail. He may open doors and bottles because he is in an "opening and closing" stage of exploration. Perhaps he has nothing else to do. One wise mother gave just such a boy plenty of small cosmetic bottles, and some larger ones, suitcases to open and close with large bottles inside and smaller ones inside them, and a wallet with snappers and papers to put in and take out. Throwing tendencies perhaps require harmless opportunities to throw—plus plenty of long-suf- _ fering vigilance when the skill in throwing breaks loose in the dining room. Thoughtful correction in time will teach the child where to throw and where not to throw. When the child throws jealousy tantrums, sometimes it is a sign he is not being given normal outlet for his affection. Care should be taken not to stop too short in showing affection to the older child when the newcomer is born. Give him reasonable opportunity to learn to share with another. In other words, frustration calls for substitution of legitimate outlet for the child's activity. This method happens to be the simplest way of managing children, or adults, and it also has the great advantage of preserving good relationship between parent and child. Children are much like fish in one respect; they can't be driven but they can be baited. The parent who becomes irate at her utter futility in driving the child to do what she wants is like a fisherman who swears because the fish won't take his hook. Perhaps the bait is wrong. This fact has profound implications for moral and religious teaching. Many is the lost soul who might have been saved if we had not been 195 quite so over-zealous and had been better strategists. The preaching and nagging about proper conduct are a potent solvent for the bonds of good feeling between the parent and the child. When the bond is broken, the tow rope on a rough sea is severed. More than that, the breaking of faith may so embitter the child that every ideal you taught may be violently disliked, particularly during adolescence; and when authority has been overthrown, all of the idols must be smashed forthwith to prove that the emancipation is complete. Salesmen formerly spent most of their time expounding the virtues of their product, but too often they forgot to ask if the consumer wanted it. Now the needs of the consumer, his wants, determine the strategy. In our moral and religious teaching, to make the moral and religious ideals beautiful, to surround them with the pleasant feelings of love and consideration in the home, to carefully point out how they satisfy the needs of the growing personality, and to avoid like the plague "scenes" of unpleasant preaching and commanding and threatening—these are the true steps in leading the hearts of the young to love the truth. Our children can learn to dislike our fine ideals just as the infant can learn to fear all furry objects when he is severely frightened by one. But if good rapport is maintained, if love and respect are always preserved, usually the child can be won over eventually. President Joseph F. Smith once said to a group of Sunday School workers, The Sunday School teacher should govern the children, not by passion, by bitter words or scolding, but by affection and by winning their confidence. If a teacher gets the confidence of a child, it is not impossible to accomplish every desired good with that child." (Gospel Doctrine 196 p. 368.) Don't fight his opposition as a general rule, but take him "into camp" with you and help him to rationalize his own point of view with a better one. Admit his problem, then try to help him solve it. A more subtle danger than the one just mentioned is that of being over-indulgent, over-solicitous about the child. Personalities are often crippled for life by the over-conscientious parent who protects the child so much that he fails in that development which can come in no other way than through making one's choices and taking the consequences. White rats have been guided through mazes in various ways so that they couldn't make any mistakes, i.e., so they couldn't enter any blind alleys. But it was learned by the experimenters that these rats didn't learn the mazes at all. When they were left later to their own choices to find food in the maze, they didn't find the food any better than if they had never been in the maze before. Somewhat the same outcome is to be expected of our children when the parents do all of the deciding, initiating, and taking of consequences of mistakes. This type of parent-child relationship is defective because the parent overshadows normal opportunities for the child to learn to be a responsible personality in society. No irreparable damage is done to our children if, as they begin to leave the shelter of their own dooryard, they appropriate the toys or enterprises of neighbor children and come home with skinned noses. Harm is done, however, if the parents uphold their children with no thought of the blame that should sometimes rightfully fall on the children. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE With all other considerations aside, good feeling between parents and children is one of the finest goals of human striving. It can abide throughout the growth period of the child only when his ultimate good takes precedent over the immediate wishes of the parent. The far-seeing love of the true Latter-day Saint home is the cornerstone for achieving this goal. Problems For Discussion 1. Interpret in the light of this lesson Doc. And Cov. 42:45: "Thou shalt live together in love, insomuch that thou shalt weep for the loss of them that die, and more especially for those that have no hope of a glorious resurrection." 2. With the two previous lessons in mind, discuss the appeal, "If you only loved me you couldn't do a thing like that. For my sake, why don't you try to do better?" What danger is there in thus putting the love our children have for us to "test"? Suggest an improvement on this procedure. 3. What significance would you attach to the fact that Burt, one of England's best authorities on delinquency, states that delinquency is associated with defective discipline in the home more often than with any. Other condition? What does this mean in terms of parent-child relationship? 4, Discuss the proposition that problem children do not need psychological treatment so much as their parents do. 5. What effect do you suppose poor relations between parents and their children in this life will have upon their relations in the hereafter? E Breaking Dishes By Caroline ITH all the care of Michael Angelo or a Raphael putting the finishing touches to his work of art, but with a spirit as low and debased, in proportion to my maturity, as theirs must have been exalted, I placed the last broken fragment of a very much prized china butter dish into its niche and placed it in exactly the most likely spot for it to be accidentally bumped when the cupboard door was next opened. It was a base intrigue—I wanted someone to suffer the tongue lashing and worse still, to be responsible for the very real heart wound which the discovery of that broken dish would occasion my mother. I was responsible for it, of course. That is it-was my accident. In putting away the dinner dishes, the doing of which was to have been a very happy surprise for my mother and sisters upon their return from meeting, I had pushed it from the shelf and broken it into half a dozen pieces. My first impulse was to gather it up and, presenting the pieces, accept my doom. But I was alone—that was the determining factor—I might not be found out, And so I had pieced it together and contrived to place it so that someone—whomever Fate picked—might by merely opening the cupboard doors let it fall to pieces like the Deacon's Wonderful One Hoss Shay. This particular butter dish was one of the few remaining parts of a very lovely china set which my father had bought for my mother years and years before, dating back almost to their wedding day. It was very white and very thin and very clear and had tiny pink rose-buds in beautiful decorative sprays on it. There had been a tragic scene at the breaking of each piece of the large set of dishes, in not a few of which Eyring Miner tragedies, Thad played the prominent role. The outcome of the incident you * may easily have guessed. The cupboard was opened by someone else, but so cautiously that when the six pieces of butter dish clattered to the floor it was wholly unexplainable by that opening, and since I was the only child at home I was apprehended, tried, convicted, and punished in the manner in which I had anticipated with the result that I resolved more firmly than ever to learn to do a better job of covering up my accident another time. Breaking dishes has a special horor for me to this very day. I never handle a very valuable dish but I have the feeling that as surely as I live I am going to drop it. I don't always do so but I do it often enough to make it an expensive and a very uncomfortable complex; one that I hope to avoid in my children. A breakable dish of any kind was a luxury to be prized and protected, and its breakage to be lamentably mourned by my mother who lived in very straitened circumstances in pioneer communities during her childhood. It was very difficult for mother to realize that breaking dishes were accidents of the purest kind and not wilfully destructive deeds, although she later came to realize it. We children had to use and wash the breakable dishes so the scenes over broken dishes in our home were quite frequent. Every time a dish is broken in my house today, I say to myself, "It was an accident; childish and careless, no doubt, but an accident. One of the accidents I used to have so frequently as a child and I won't shout at the offender nor lament the breakage of the dish aloud for fear he will want to piece it together in my absence and so deceive me to spare a scene. A broken dish or broken confidence! I will take the first." TO THE TEACHERS By Fern Russon To you who labor in the Cause of Right, Whose duties urge you on from morn till night— In homes where loved ones' needs must be fulfilled By ever-ready hands and hearts sweet-willed— We bring a greeting that is fond and true And filled with love and' gratitude to you. We know your home-tasks must be left undone That a reward for service might be won; We know the journeys out among the fold Through summer's stifling heat and winter's cold; We know the storms that oft beset your way As forth you travel on a dreary day. And, too, we know the sunshine that you bring To homes round which sad mem'ries often cling; We know the words of helpfulness and cheer That leave your lips in accents kind and dear. We know. The comfort of your tender smile That lingers in the mem'ry all the while. And—yes—we know the prayers you needs must pray That God will give you fitting words to say: When called to homes where sickness rules in might And doubts and dangers lurk from morn till night. We know the help you need from heaven above To carry on your work of light and love. We know the confidences that you share With those down-trodden in a world of care; Where weakness, want and misery play their part To stifle all that's fine in each brave heart; And to these trusts, God help you to be true That ne'er a hurt be backward traced to you. And so again in gratitude that's real We come to do you honor, for we feel That bravely have you earned an honor day And truly have you won unending praise. Humbly you've sown,—great shall your harvest be While works and words march on triumphantly. And now we hope your hearts are cheered and brightened; We hope your labors will be ever lightened By knowing that your steps in service trod Are helping others feel the love of God. And may His spirit ever follow you And bless the words you say—the deeds you do, And may you, while the seasons hurry past, Make each new effort greater than the last. Headquarters for APPROVED LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS FROM FACTORY TO YOU. 80 Heavy Wt. Men''s dbl. Back $1.50 No. Ee light Wt. Old Style ta. 81 Hvy. Wt. Old Style dbl. Back 1.50 No. T., a comfortable gar-; ment for summer—Men's and. 83 Extra Fine double combed Ladies'—New Style only ' yarn Heavy Wt. Silk stripe... 1.85. 89 Extra fine quality lisle,. 84 Med. Lt. Wt. Men's & Ladies' Men's & Ladies'—New Style 1.10 cotton rib, new style only....85. 90 Extra Special, Glove Silk for 85 Our Extra Special Super NonTemple or Burial run Rayon, Men's and Ladies'. 91 Extra fine grade flat knit, New Style.. 1.10 Ladies' New Style only. Old Style... D. 92 Heavy Wt. Men's bleached,. 86 Extra fine, silk stripe combed short sleeve, ankle length or cot., ladies' new style only 1.25 long sleeve, ankle length. We charge 10% extra for sizes over 46. Postage prepaid anywhere in United States. Please specify when ordering, bust, trunk, length and whether new or old style and if for Men or Ladies. Garments marked upon request—ten cents per pair Satisfaction guaranteed or your money cheerfully refunded We solicit your mail order business—samples mailed upon request ZION'S GARMENT COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah 549 South 7th East Street Box 1453 Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices General Board Relief Society Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine "FOUR WAYS BETTER" BE SURE YOU RECEIVE THE ONE AND ONLY GENUINE | UTAH SPRING CANYON COAL 1—Starts Quicker. 2-—-Burns Longer. 3--Less Soot. 4—-Less Ash ''ASK YOUR DEALER'? L. D. S. Garment Our Specialty We carry a complete line in old and new styles. The following numbers will interest you. No. 1. Men's New Style Ribbed cotton. Our double back Light Weight....$1.00 number. Men's new or old combed cotton, an excellent No. 6. Light weight garment, Ladies' number....... Ccse00 85 dies' new style, Flat Weave 1.00 No. 3. Old Style ribbed lgt wet. No. 17. Ladies' Rayon in 4 grades, cotton, our standard garments $80, $1.00 1.50 1.10 No 4. Ribbed med. On cotton, No.8: ee Rayon, in 2 grades, 1.50 1 ed. 25. Re 1 number. Men's new or old No. 9. Old or New Style 10% Wool 1.95 style 1.45 No. 10. Heavy, part wool, old or new No. 5. Ribbed hvy. Wet. Unbleached la (ne 2.75 During Conference week we will mark the garments you buy of us free of charge. Make our store your headquarters. Nearest store in town to the Tabernacle and Temple. See our Virgin Wool Blankets, Men's Suits and Top-Coats, Ladies' Dresses and Suits. Factory to you. Keep this Magazine with our adv. For reference. Original Utah Woolen Mills 24 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah One-Half Block South of Tabernacle South Gate FAITH You can not see your milk produced. You can not see the various steps by which it comes from the farm to your door-step in clean, shining bottles. You buy milk on faith. PURE AT THE SOURCE Arden arti has an Roca reputation. Ae i ho work at Arden Dairy are sincere, honest, conscientious folks ate would much rather sell the best milk than the most milk. We feel keenly that it is a serious responsibility to supply you with pure milk. So Arden Milk is good milk. Because it is the product of a good organization. ARDEN DAIRY | When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 2. New Style ribbed Igt. Wet. 1.50 YOUTH Is the Time for VOCATIONAL PREPARATION Its golden hours, wisely invested, will yield rich returns throughout life. The L. D. S. Business College is dedicated to the service of ambitious young men and women Let us tell you about opportunities for vocational training at the L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City Wasatch 1812 You Get Double Value from your subscription to THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, and other Church publications, when you preserve your magazines in permanently bound volumes. Send your back numbers to us now! DURING MARCH We will return them to you postpaid, attractively and durably bound in cloth, stamped in gold. Relief Society Magazine... $1.50 Improvement Era 2.00 Children's Friend —.................2.00 Instructor per volume @ The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah "Pioneer Printers and Binders of the West" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine A father's Hands These are the hands that write the checks that pay the tamily bills. They are strong hands, entirely capable of earning a livelihood for the family. But what if the hands are robbed of their power by accident or death? Or what of the time when age will rob them of their strength? Provide against either event with life insurance. By means of life insurance you can protect your family and at the same time build up a reserve fund for your own old age. Ask your local Beneficial agent how you can launch a planned life insurance program in this strong company. All Beneficial policyholders share in the Company's net profits. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANYBLDG., SALT LAKE City, UTAH HEBER J, GRANT,. PRESIDENT 'The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vol. XXIV APRIL, 1937 No. 4 PRESIDENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETIES: Help Others To Help Themselves to a self-supporting, self-respecting job. It will bring a twofold reward— Send us the name of a thrifty deserving woman, living in your ward who is interested in a good sales job. Immediately upon hearing favorably from party recommended we will send you ABSOLUTELY FREE enough delicious Ju-see Fruit Drinks to serve your next social. Write At Once To EVERBEST PRODUCTS INC. 305 East Second South Salt Lake City, Utah Lively, Lovely 1937 Wallpapers. Whether it's Chanticleers for the nursery, Tulip motifs for the bedroom or colorfully artistic patterns for the living room... IMPERIAL offers you irresistable selections. The same lovely papers you have seen advertised in the National magazines. Every design is the work of some nationally famous decorator or artist. And remember —Imperial Wallpapers are Washable! SALT LAKE GLASS & PAINT CO. Home of LOWE BROTHERS and PRATT & LAMBERT PAINTS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 35 East First South Street Salt Lake City O. P.5. STORES Whatever your menu plans are—whatever your requirements are—come to O. P. S. Stores for your foods. If you want quality in food and economy in Go. P Ss KAG GS price, shop in one of our stores. F000 ee crones Service Above All SALT LAKE PROVO OGDEN PRICE PAYSON MANTI YSTAL DALACE Markets 2 ou, lst South at 3rd East—17th South at 5th East South Temple at 2nd East We Give and Redeem DHL Discount Stamps. "We feature” Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products When Buying. Mention Relief Society Magazine THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vou, XXIV APRIL, 1937 F No. 4 CONTENTS Springtime Breezes Make Beauty Everywhere................. Lettie B. Rich 199 Frontispiecee—New General Board Members................ 200 Vivian Redd McConkie.........Luella W. Cannon 201 Leda Thompson Jenset.............Donna D. Sorensen 204 Beatrice Farley Stevens...........Stringam A. Stevens 206 Rae Barlow Barker............Jessica Bird Goates 208 Little Moments of Eternity...................Lella Marler Hoggan 210 On the Trails of the Old Kaibab..........Elsie C. Carroll 213 Happenings....... Annie Wells Cannon 217 Lotta Paul Baxter.......Thomas B. Child 218 The Woman's Part...Caroline Eyring Miner 2 Williams Stone 223 Cross Questions........Agnes Just Reid 227 A Man and His Idea.........Dorothy Clapp Robinson 229 Spring Rhapsody..........Grace Zenor Pratt 232 He Finally Said "Yes"...Olive S. Felt 233 Appreciation......Sadie Willes Adamson 236 The Building That Endures..............Jennie Barlow Duffin 237 Notes to the Field.......... 240 A Happy Experience.......... 20. Nettie D. Bradford 241 Notes from the Field................ Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary 242 Editorials:: 3 Sacrament Meeting............245 Drifting from Fundamentals............. 246 Daughters' Day........ 246 The Fussy Individual........247 Lesson Department..........  248 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 980 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no ponies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address, Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return, When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine AMERICAN BEAUTY WASHERS $935 EASIEST IN THE WORLD ON CLOTHES 400 Living Room, Dining Room and Bed room  suites: on display. Prices from $29.50 to $325.00 The New Kelvinator runs only HALF as many minutes per day. The rest of the time it maintains low temperatures using NO CURRENT AT ALL. GRANITE FURNITURE Co. 1050 East 21st South—Sugar House M. A. JOHNSON—C. A. MILLER Salt Lake Monument  Hyland 6826 "A LIFE OF SERVICE DESERVES A JUST REWARD". 186 N Street—-Salt Lake City, Utah Opposite Main Entrance City Cemetery THE SALT LAKE KNITTING FACTORY'S; 37 Years' Experience, Manufacturing Ladies' and Men's Underwear MADE TO YOUR measurements—is a GUARANTEE of good workmanship and lasting quality—We prepay postage to any place in the United States, Samples Submitted Upon Request Address SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE Oldest Knitting Store in the State ——When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 42 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah THIS CIRCLE This circle, with "Vitamin D" in it, stands for your best energy food. FISHER'S VITAMIN D BREAD A product of the AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY The Big Home-Owned Bakery Made from Beets Grown In Your Community Highest Grade GRANULATED QUICK-DISSOLVING and POWDERED SUGARS UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. Sing a song of Beauty.. FULLER Pure Prepared PAINT to add priceless protection to your home.. FULLER Wallor Spring! Fe P of papers that beautify.. DECORET ENAMEL for woodwork and furniture.. FULLERGLO for kitchen and bathroom walls.. FULLER Cleaners to lighten labor.. FULLER Waxes and Polishes to add shine and glow. Every FULLER product a leader in its line! FULLER PAINTS they last See Your Fuller Paint Dealer for PAINTS, WALLPAPER, GLASS W. P. FULLER & CO. Salt Lake City and Ogden, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Springtime Breezes Make Beauty Everywhere By Lettie B, Rich The snow capped mountains are calling, With a soft and gentle breeze, As it sings through the canyon gorges, Kissing new leaves on the trees, Caressing wild birds and blossoms, Like the touch of a mother's hand Sweeping on down to the valley, Greeting the level lowland. Now it wakens the sleeping river - From its icy winter dreams, Waving, rippling, and dancing, Reflecting the bright sunbeams, Soothing and calming the tired nerves Watching it glide along, Flowing gently toward the sea Murmuring a soft, sweet song. Down in the cool green meadow Where you breathe the verdant air, The meadow-lark is singing Of springtime beauty everywhere. The blackbirds join in' the chorus With yellow and red on their wing, Little blue flowers and cowslips Peep up to proclaim the spring. Wherever you go there is beauty If your spirit and heart are right, The wonderful work of God you will see From dawn till stars twinkle at night, Your soul will be filled with gladness As the day slowly sinks to rest, Watching the beautiful sunset All aglow in the golden West. ; NEW BOARD MEMBERS Vivian R. McConkie, Leda T. Jensen, Beatrice T. Stevens, Rae B. Barker The Relief Society Magazine VOL, XXIV APRIL, 1937 No. 4 Vivian Redd McConkie By Luella W. Cannon HAD you journeyed across the plains as a Mormon pioneer, having experienced the trials and hardships of such a trip, would you not have -welcomed upon your arrival in Salt Lake Valley, the opportunity of being settled once more? We are familiar with the fact that no sooner did many of these families begin to feel settled, than new calls came to them to do other pioneering. I have in mind a family which accepted a call to the southern part of Utah Valley. Later they pressed on into Iron County. In 1879 when Pres. Brigham Young issued a call to a group of saints to settle in San Juan County, these same people were included in that call. This was a more severe test of their faith than any which had previously confronted them. It called for great courage and real power of endurance, for an extremely difficult task lay before them. With implicit faith in the inspiration of their prophet and leader, they set out on their undertaking.: The party was made up of one hundred and fifty people, with one hundred wagons. The journey was begun in Oct., 1879, and completed in April, 1880—of six months duration. In order to reach the San Juan country in the extreme southeastern corner of Utah, they were compelled to cross the Colorado River, a very difficult and hazardous undertaking. With almost perpendicular cliffs and ledges banking the stream, a way had to be discovered to conquer this barrier. As this band of people halted, puzzling as to how this giant task might be accomplished, a mountain sheep was noticed, making its way down a ledge. This proved to be the key to the situation. The trail of the sheep became the path of the people. It led them to the hole in the rock, through which they were able to reach the riverside. Of course a means had to be devised by which the wagons and equipment might be brought down, too. A plan was hit upon by which the wagons were taken apart and the parts were lowered over the precipices by means of ropes. What time and patience all of this must have taken, before they could continue on! Even after this they faced the danger of crossing the Colorado. We marvel at their determination and perseverance! On and on they moved, through the great natural bridge section. They camped on the stretches of flat rock, so common to this type of country. Drinking water was obtained from pools left by the rain. Although winter time, the weather was not cold. Of course, had they chosen 202 summer for such a trip, the heat could not have been endured. In the spring of 1880 these people settled at Bluff, about which a whole story might be told. It is situated on the banks of the San Juan River, in a unique and fascinating setting. As the name implies, it really is in the bluffs, which are highly colored in tones ranging from yellow to red, The climate is semi-tropical, the soil fertile. This place soon became a flourishing town, which I was told, is farther from a railroad than any other town in the United States. Today it appears almost as a ghost of some prosperous day. Although nearly deserted, because of river floods, an observer is impressed by the substantial and beautiful homes built by those people. AMONG these settlers in Bluff was the Redd family, which has stood out prominently in the development of San Juan. J. M. Redd was among these, and this brings me to the introduction of the subject of this article. J. M. Redd, known for his fearlessness and for his knowledge of that great country, has guided many people on trips to the Natural Bridges. In his late teens he was the life of the pioneer party. Unmarried as he made this first trip to Bluff, he returned to Iron County, where he married Lucinda Pace and with her, again made his way to Bluff. VIVIAN REDD McCONKIE, one of the latest additions to the Relief Society General Board, is the daughter of Mr. And Mrs. J. M. Redd. As a daughter of these brave, courageous pioneers, she is a worthy representative. I feel confident that even as her people unhesitatingly met their call in one of the greatest pioneer ventures on record RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE so she would meet such a call were it necessary today. She was born in Bluff, Oct. 13, 1889, the third child in a family of nine. Her parents were real home makers, intelligent, generous, and industrious. The impelling force in the lives of these people was the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The importance of education was not lost sight of. Vivian went to school in Bluff until she had finished the seventh grade. Many miles away, in Bear Lake, Idaho, her schooling continued. Her higher education was had at the University of Utah and at the Agricultural College at Logan. While attending the University of Utah she became captain of the first girl's basketball team of the university. The most important event in connection with her Agricultural College experiences was the meeting of Oscar W. McConkie, whom she later married, and who is now Judge McConkie. ETWEEN her college days and her marriage she taught school for two years in Monticello, her family having gone there to live. In 1913 she and Oscar McConkie were married in the Salt Lake Temple. Three years were spent at Ann Arbor, Michigan, where Brother McConkie attended law school. For one year she studied speech at the University of Michigan. Returning to Utah they lived for ten years in Monticello where Brother McConkie practiced law. In 1926 they took up their residence in Salt Lake City, having been members of the Twentieth Ward ever since. "THROUGHOUT her life Vivian has been a devoted church worker. In San Juan she served as Relief Society counselor in the ward four years; as stake secretary to her mother who was Stake President of Relief VIVIAN REDD McCONKIE Society, and ten years as first counselor to the Stake President of the Mutual Improvement Association, as well as divers other positions of trust and responsibility. Since coming to Salt Lake City, she served for three years as president of the Twentieth Ward Mutual, and almost eight years as Relief Society president. Undoubtedly her latest call to service has come because of her fine understanding of and her accomplishments in Relief Society undertakings. She truly has been "the servant of all." She is a woman of action, rather than of words. She is dependable. There is no place for laziness or triviality in her life.. She does find time however for worth-while activities outside the routine of home and church. In connection with Relief Society activities, she is a regular attendant at the L. D. S. Gym and has become an efficient swimmer. Possessing a calmness of nature, she seems to do things with very little effort. Accepting life and all it offers as a privilege, she meets even the hardest tasks cheerfully. Her time and talents are given so unselfishly. She is a worthy daughter of worthy parents. With a noble husband and six lovely children she enjoys the blessings of a happy home. These children are following in the footsteps of their parents. A GREATER insight and under- 6 standing of this family came to me as a result of a visit with them several years ago, when they were spending the summer in Monticello. Had but one member of my family been invited to spend two weeks in Monticello, I should have considered the invitation most generous, but when five of us were invited I was perfectly overwhelmed. By telling something of the experiences we enjoyed on this trip, it may give you a 203 greater insight into the nature of Vivian McConkie and her people. Near the Blue Mountains—Monticello is considerably higher than the great stretches of sparsely populated country round about. Even in the midst of summer, the nights are very cool and the days pleasant. Flowers grow beautifully there, and when I think of Monticello I think of flowers. Sweet peas are especially beautiful in that climate, so large and very fragrant. Fresh sweet peas we enjoyed in our room during our entire stay. With over a dozen people to plan meals for each day, I discovered what an excellent manager our hostess was, also what a good cook. Things were done quietly with no friction. It all seemed so easy, although I realized that a great responsibility was being shouldered.. Our vacation included a camping trip for several days in the Blue Mountains, with the McConkies and some of their friends. A trip to the great Natural Bridges followed,—a never-to-be-forgotten experience, — the memory of which I shall always treasure. We were invited into the homes of relatives and friends of these people. Their sincerity and genuine hospitality touched my heart. When the time came to say goodbye we felt as though we were tearing away from those we had known always. For miles as we drove along the highway, homeward bound, the silence was not broken. Our hearts were too full to give utterance. The trip had definitely done something to me. I am better for having had it. With gratitude in my being I shall always feel indebted to these people. Through this article, I trust that readers may gain some insight into the life and character of Vivian McConkie. May our Heavenly Father richly bless her in her new venture. Leda Thompson Jensen By Donna D. Sorensen THIRTY-SEVEN years have brought a variety of experiences to Leda, the daughter of John O. And Fannie Green Thompson, born at Ephraim, Utah. Her accomplishments and the honors which have come to her have been indicative of her heritage and training. She has met life with the same zest and zeal which made her parents and grandparents valuable members of pioneer communities. Leda has always been keenly eager for learning. Particularly fortunate was she in being born in a family where individual preferences were considered. Provision was made for her to attend Snow College. Then followed a two-year service in the Mexican Mission field and the acquirement of a new language. Upon her return from her mission she determined to pursue her education with the university as her objective. To achieve this desire she taught for a few years in the grade schools in her home town. Later she spent one year at our state university and the remainder of her college work she acquired at the Brigham Young University at Provo. HE year she graduated with the class of 1927 found her as vice president of the student body. My first contact with her came in this year and I was impressed with her democratic spirit. She was an outstanding success in this office as she possessed the ability of delegating responsibility wisely and she also had that rare capacity of fraternizing with the students. With her talents she was liberal and she often represented the school in programs sent out to neighboring towns. Dependability, too, played a part in her success. No promise was too small to be overlooked when once Leda had given her word, Nor was this office the only honor which came to her at the university. Because of her musical talent she was chosen to sing one of the leading roles in the school opera, "Elijah." Her ability in her major field, Home Economics, led to her being selected as a charter member of Gamma Phi Omricon, Home Economics sorority. She also won the Hazel Nobel Boyack Efficiency Honor Medal to the best student in the Home Economics department. General scholastic — capability placed her among the students graduating from the university with highest honors. WHEN Leda married Dr. Ernell Jensen in June, 1931, she not only assumed the responsibility of wifehood common to each bride but she also faced courageously the task of mothering his four children. Later a son and a daughter of her own gave added responsibility. In this new calling Leda brought splendid training and boundless energy. One of the true tests of education comes in whether the individual can apply that knowledge which has been gained. Truly in this situation knowledge and application stand hand in hand. The home duties and family life of the Jensen's have been admirably worked out. Because of a firm belief in the value of working according to schedule and the proper budgeting of time the home functions as a smooth LEDA THOMPSON JENSEN working unit. Sister Jensen is an efficient homemaker but still she finds time to engage in church activities, to interest herself in genealogy and to perform temple work, to sew extensively and to read widely. However it would not be possible for her to go so far afield had she not had the encouragement, the support and the cooperation of her splendid husband. JUST as Leda in her life has recognized a time for learning so too has she learned the value of giving. Her teaching in school has been done on both the elementary and the secondary levels. The Pleasant Grove High School claimed her for three years after her graduation. Undoubtedly, however, the major portion of her usefulness as a teacher has been in a secular capacity. The Sunday School, The Primary, the Mutual, and the Relief Society have all been recipients of her earnest, trained effort and talent. VERSATILITY is Leda's because her innate desire to garner truth and knowledge has willed her to be, because her training has enlarged her vision and because she herself has learned to manage well her many duties. 205 SISTER JENSEN has always possessed the quality of recognizing and appreciating the fine in each individual. Her tolerant, democratic spirit and friendly interest in people generally have made her beloved by many. These friends will rejoice in this new honor which has come to her. HER interest in Relief Society has been stimulated by the admirable example of her mother who has labored many years in this organization. Leda was chosen to serve as a social service teacher in the Relief Society of the Highland Park Ward in 1934. So well did she function here that the following year Sister Nellie O. Parker, Relief Society stake president of Highland Stake, selected her to serve on the stake board in the same department. To Relief Society women everywhere Leda T. Jensen will bring a keen understanding of a homemaker's problems, a mind trained to think clearly and logically, a sincerity in her work which comes with a fervent testimony of the gospel and a feeling of friendliness which will endear her to those whom she will serve. Rg SPRING SONG By Linnie Parker Gold I like these "tree-top" days—they bring A certain steady, splendid swing Of curtains—branches—everything— I like the way the wind is playing— Roaring, ranting, swinging, swaying, Like a giant voice that's saying: "T am blowing in the Spring!" - Beatrice Farley Stevens By Stringam A. Stevens NOWN and admired by a host kK of friends for her genial disposition, her sympathetic understanding of human _ nature, her fine instincts for right living and the higher cultural values, and her unfailing optimism, Mrs. Beatrice Farley Stevens comes to the General Board of the Relief Society well equipped to give valuable service to this great organization. She brings with her a profound reverence for the divine origin of the Church and for the authority of its leadership, and a wide understanding of and respect for its institutions and purposes. As an active and enthusiastic worker in the various wards and stakes where she has resided, as a devoted mother, and as the wife of a man whom she has always encouraged to give his best efforts to his varied Church assignments, she has exemplified in her own life the noblest virtues of Latter-day Saint womanhood. COMING from pioneer Latter-day Saint ancestry on both sides of her family, she was born and grew to young womanhood in Ogden, Utah, where she received her early education and musical training. For one year she taught in the Morgan school district and for two years in the Ogden City schools. She was always very active and well known in musical circles in these communities. WHILE a very young girl Mrs. Stevens began her church work as assistant secretary in the M. I. A. Of the Fifth Ward at Ogden. Later she became a teacher in the Sunday School and for several years was a member of the Ogden Tabernacle Choir. MRS. STEVENS is the wife of Stringam A. Stevens, son of the late Bishop Thomas J. Stevens of the Ogden Fifth Ward. In addition to her own personal responsibilities, she has shared in all of the many activities and church assignments which have come to her husband. Mr. Stevens has served, at various times, on stake Sunday School Boards, in three ward Sunday School superintendencies, and in a ward bishopric. During recent years he has been a member of the stake high council and a counselor in the Liberty Stake Presidency. At present he is a member of the Y. M. M. I. A. General Board and of the General Committee of the Church Security Program. Shortly after their marriage, she and her husband moved to Salt Lake City where they have since resided, and where Mrs. Stevens has contin-. Ued to devote herself to church work. For several years she was connected with the Primary Association, acting as chorister, class instructor and ward president. For five years she was president of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association of the Thirty-third Ward and later was a counselor in the Stake Presidency of that organization in the original Liberty Stake. She has been Gleaner Class Leader and chorister in the Y. W. M. I. A. Of the Thirty-third Ward for the past several years. Although her most recent assignments in church work have not been BEATRICE FARLEY STEVENS in the Relief Society, she has given service to that organization in the capacity of organist, ward teacher, and class instructor. She has learned to know and love the work through the example of her mother, who has given a lifetime of devoted service to that organization. Perhaps Mrs. Stevens' most outstanding service has been in the musical activities of the various organizations. She has had wide experience in training choruses of young people. In addition to writing several songs she has written and produced a number of successful acts ' for M. I. A. Road Shows. One of these acts, "The Magic Bowl," will be remembered by many readers, for it was presented in numerous wards, stakes, and missions throughout the Church. 207 HE new Relief Society board member is the daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Asa C. Farley, formerly of Ogden but now residents of Salt Lake City. She is the mother cf two children,—a daughter Virginia, wife of Dr. H. R. Reichman of Salt Lake City, and a son Robert S. Stevens, who is now serving as a missionary in the British Mission. Although she has been identified with and active in various civic, cultural, and educational organizations for many years, her greatest interests and happiness have been in her home and Church. She has great faith, courage, and ingenuity—characteristics invaluable in facing and overcoming difficulties. Sympathy and kindness are among her outstanding qualities. A MASTER BUILDER PROFESSOR E. H. EASTMOND By Minnie I. Hodapp In chosen words did he define Art's slender, upward-leading line; And clustered these in sunset fires As brightly burnished temple-spires. The rushes by the placid lake Grew animated for his sake; Each stalk and stem and blade of grass, He viewed in fancy's looking-glass. And flowers were ever proud to grace The mantle in his urn or vase; They beckoned to him joyously From hill or field or verdant lea. And he could wield a magic brush: Paint morning glow or twilight-hush, Or sun-kissed snow-peaks which aver The soul's sublime excelsior! His home-sweet-home, a hallowed spot Of heart-ease, mirth, and tender thought, Where with his dear ones he could trace Bright beauty in things commonplace. He heard the voice of peace and trust Faith's lowly whisper from the dust, And vivified for age or youth The pearl of joy, the gem of truth. Lo, characters of ancient fame, Out of the living past they came; Responsive to his wand-like touch, They breathed and spoke and taught us much. He looked on life with royal eyes And bade us glimpse rare Raphael skies; He gave us vistas pure and bright To solace, strengthen, and delight. Disciple of our Latter Day! Truth's message in his heart bore sway! And he proclaimed our Prophet's story In tints and hues. And tones of glory. His inner world was happiness, His life the sweet, supreme success, A master-builder for all time With motive Christ-like and sublime! Rae Barlow Barker By Jessica Bird Goates HROUGH memory, we turn back to the active scene of our pioneer fathers and mothers, and to the great contributions they made for the development. Of their cherished philosophy of life— the gospel. Nor has the significance of their work been lost sight of by many of their children and grandchildren. In their time and way they too are making contributions as evidenced by consistent service. Such a one is Rae Barlow Barker, christened Mercy Rachel. [SRAEL BARLOW Sr., a pioneer of 1848, and Lucy Heap, a member of the handcart company, settled in Bountiful, where Rae's father, Hyrum H. Barlow, was born. Her mother, Margaret Burton, was a daughter of Wm. W. Burton of Ogden and Ellen Fielding. Both parents had an untimely death, leaving Rae, with her two sisters and a brother, to be reared by their beloved Aunt Mercy R. Stevens. How well they were fostered is indicated by the fact that each of them, together with Aunt Mercy's own daughter, was given a college education. IN her early life on the Burton ranch in Star Valley, Wyoming, Rae rode ponies, chased blackbirds, herded and milked cows, turned the cream separator, and most of all learned to appreciate people in the humble walks of life. She has never lost that common touch, which makes all people interesting to her. Her winters were spent at school in Ogden and later at the University of Utah, AFTER completing her college course she taught school, but in her leisure time she became interested in engineering—or at least in an engineer. Her marriage to Howard Barker in 1917 marked the beginning of another happy adventure. They have known the real meaning and joy of team-work. The two little Barkers who joined their partnership a few years later proved to be two good reasons for studying foods and studying and practicing child welfare, better speech, fundamentals of religion, and home building. ER church activities have been numerous and varied. She was a teacher in Sunday School at fifteen, has-taught in the Primary and Seminary, served on the Weber and Liberty Stake Mutual Boards, and has both taught and been an officer in ward Mutual and Relief Society organizations. Of all her opportunities for service, that with the Emigration Ward Relief Society has brought her the greatest joy and satisfaction. Her efforts as a teacher in the literary and better speech departments, and as a counselor to Sister Belle Lambourne, have won her a lasting place in the hearts of her associates. From her own point of view, the experience has been like a university extension course rather than a church duty. She is imbued with the idea that the Relief Society offers unlimited possibilities for progress. She feels that any woman who once gets the spirit of the Relief Society program will experience that same stimulation and RAE BARLOW BARKER incentive to serve which she has enjoyed. Rae Barker is deeply sympathetic and extremely tolerant. She makes decisions only after weighing both sides. She not only firmly believes in Jesus' precept, "Judge not that ye be net judged'', but goes far towards practicing it. She meets the vicissitudes of life courageously, attacks her problems intelligently and judiciously, and is true to her convictions. She radiates cheer, peace and love to all who are near her. The latchkey of her home is always hanging outside. Humility, sincerity and charm are three of her choicest qualities, and her prayer is ever "God give me 209 mountains, and strength to climb". The following quotation, which I cannot repeat exactly as it was written, is one which Rae treasures, and she says it has acted as a spur to her for many years: "I am only one, but I AM ONE. I can not do everything, but I can do something. What I can do, I ought to do, And what I ought to do, by the help of God, I will do." ER great devotion to Relief Society work, along with many other qualifications, will surely make her a valuable addition to the General Board. Her host of friends wish her joy and success in her new venture. THE TABERNACLE CHOIR By Pliny A. Wiley _ Sweeping over the mountains At the dawn of each Sabbath Day, Comes the music of melody's fountains To hallow and bless our way. From the city fair by the inland sea When the organ calls to prayer, A benediction comes to me. I catch a strain celestial there. When the voices sweet of the singers rise I fancy they soar to meet The white robed chorus in Paradise Singing our earth to greet. O golden choir of the golden West We cherish each song of thine. May thy highest notes and thy holiest By the crystal sea, become Divine, Ui = DoramsrlerWiihams — "yea Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? PRAYER Take Time For Spiritual Blessings By Lella Marler Hoggan "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, unuttered or expressed." —Montgomery. AEN fragrant odors from the \ \ first spring blossoms come drifting in through the open windows, and curtains are lightly stirred by soft breezes, the heart is filled with grateful joy. New life bursting forth from what was but yesterday a gray, cold world, is symbolic of life everlasting which has come forth from the silent tomb of the past. We think of the shepherds in the quiet fields of Bethlehem as they listened in awed wonder to the glad song of the ages. We remember how the Master walked and talked with men, and how they followed him through the streets and down to the sea, listening to his every word, his message of peace and of love and of hope eternal., We, too, stand in awed wonder when we think of how his joyous message was rejected and how he was crucified by the very world that he had come to save. And then, how the miracle of prophetic promise was wrought. Never were hearts lifted up in greater gladness than were the sorrowing ij hearts of His beloved disciples, when He walked forth from the dark tomb in triumphant glory. They, too, would live again. They, too, would go on eternally—they and their LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY children after them, and all mankind, down through the countless ages. 'THAT heritage of eternal truth, of life everlasting, has come down to you and to me. In the long years of its coming it has not lost any of its beauty or its glory. Do we accept it in its fullness? Are we ready to follow in the path of light that it spreads from our hearts to the harbor of our dreams? The magic key that will open the door to all of its blessings is in our keeping. It is an ancient key, the same one that has been used through the centuries; the first and the most important of all of the keys of the Kingdom of Life. It is the Key of Prayer. Through its use we may enter into communion with the Most High, and receive help and comfort and strength according to our needs. COMMUNION with the Divine is a high privilege. It implies understanding and cooperation. It is more than a mere request to have our needs supplied, have special favors granted. Is it not possible for us to establish a high fellowship, a divine friendship with our Maker, that we may share with Him our joys and our triumphs as well as our sorrows and our misfortunes? Have we not risen some mornings toa world so running over with gladness that we wanted to pour out our souls in gratitude to the kind Providence that had showered us with such a fullness of happiness? Some blessings are so perfect and so beautiful that they become a ceremonial of joy, a glad rapture, for which we are unable to express our appreciation except in prayer. Sometimes a sorrow comes to us so devastating that it seems to strip life of all its beauty and loveliness. 211 We feel that the very foundation of our existence is crumbling under our feet. Such sorrow finds only one source of comfort. Only the Master knows how to heal a broken heart. He can lift us out of the thick, black night of sorrow or sin or humiliation. He can put our feet back on the path of life and give us courage to go forward and meet any emergency that awaits us. UT we must do our part. If we wait until our need is upon us, and then come running in haste for the blessings we desire, we are sometimes unprepared to receive it. Where a person plans and studies and struggles over a long period of time to accomplish some worthy desire, his very effort is a perpetual prayer. He is ready for the blessing, and what has been going on through the years stands as a silent testimony of his worthiness. He has already opened up the way for the fulfillment of his dream. There are times when frequent prayer is not only a comfort but a necessity to some persons. WHEN my children were little," confided a gentle old lady, "I felt the need of guidance at every turn. It was then that I formed the habit of offering little silent prayers as I went about my work. I think most mothers form such a habit. It seems like we need wisdom and patience and courage every hour of the day. I know exactly what the Master meant when he said we should 'pray always.' I used to feel that a guiding influence was right at my side, companion like, lending a helping hand in all of the numberless joys and trials of the day." She was silent for awhile and then she continued, reminiscently, "There was a quiet sheitered nook just off 212 the path, down near the spring, where I used to go to pray every morning in the summer. To me it was as hallowed as a sacred prayer room. When I entered into the silence and the beauty of that little place, my cares and worries all slipped from my shoulders like an old cloak. I felt that I was in the very presence of the Divine. That quiet little moment of prayer in the morning seemed to fortify me against every emergency. I knew that a kind watch care would be over me all through the day. Yes, the comforting influence of an unseen presence has carried me over the river of pain and sorrow many times." She smiled sweetly. She had found the "peace that passeth understanding." O we deliberately plan for moments of devotion? Do we find holds? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE time for spiritual blessings, for the fulfillment of our high hopes? N° lovely thing in life comes cheap. We have to pay for heaven as we go. We can't suppress the spiritual influences through the years and then expect the portals to swing wide at our approach. Why not open our eyes to a little of each day's effulgence? Not walk right through the eternal glories blindfolded. Have we learned to listen to the singing melodies of life? To glimpse the radiant gladness that each day The choicest blessings that any heart can harbor are in the offing. Are we going to find time for them? Stripped of the sheen of ideality, the glory of divinity, what is life? Truly, "white hyacinths for the soul" are as essential as daily food and shelter. Aero — THE GATHERING By Theodore E. Curtis Lift up thy gates, O Zion! From afar Thy children come rejoicing as of old. Thy light rekindles, like a guiding star, To light them from the darkness to the fold. In thee all racial prejudice shall cease; In thee the hearts of many nations blend; Thine is the fountain of eternal peace Where Israel's troubled pilgrimage shall end. Thy light is like a flaming diadem, And many lands have turned their hearts to thee. To Zion, and to old Jerusalem, They come like rivers rolling to the sea. From every quarter of the spacious earth, From every land beneath the starry dome, From out the ancient darkness and the dearth The children of the promise gather home. On the Trails of the Old Kaibab By Elsie C. Carroll CHAPTER XI TEVE was pacing the floor of the lobby when Helen reached the Lodge. His surprise at seeing her was reassuring, for she wondered if he could have recognized her when he rushed past. "Steve," she said, trying to keep her excitement under control, "I have something very important to talk over with you. Are you well enough to ride? I have Maje and perhaps we can get another horse here." He was eager to get away. "I don't know what the doctor would say, but I feel all right." He called a bell-boy and arranged for a horse; in a few moments they were riding away. For a little time Helen hesitated about telling him what she had come to disclose. He looked so ill and wretched that she wondered if Dr. Grosbeck would have let him come. It seemed to her, however, that the physical danger of this ride could not be as harmful as the mental torture Tess Morley had put him through. "Well, what did you want to tell me? That you think ''m a bum trainer to get smashed up like I did the other day?", "Oh, Steve, that was dreadful. I'm glad I wasn't there to see it." He looked at her in surprise, but she went on. "Steve, I believe I know where your lost cattle are. That's what I came to tell you."; Quietly she laid her theory before him. As he listened his eyes filled with amazement, but they still held their old cynicism. He'd had theories himself that seemed as logical as hers. "Haven't you ever suspected Hawley?" "Gracious, no! Why should I suspect him? He's a deputy-sheriff and has been helping me all these years." Carefully she told of all her observations which had led to her suspicions. She recalled the day they met Hawley after they'd seen Lon with the questionable-looking stranger. She told of the meeting of Hawley and this same man shortly after Lon had come back wounded. She mentioned, too, that she was quite sure Hawley had ridden from the rodeo with the same man just before Steve went into the corral for his riding exhibition. She told what she had seen as she had flown over the mountain with Pete Rockwood, and the aviator's comments about the evident preparations for branding. "Can't you see, Steve, how easy it would be for him to change your double H to his crossed four bars?" He looked at her seriously. "You're right! And my ear-mark could be easily cut to his, too. But why would he be doing a thing like that to me?" "The question we're concerned with first, is to prove that he is doing it. Did you ever examine any of the brands on his old cattle—the ones he claims to have brought here when he bought the ranch?" | "T don't know. Why?" "T was just thinking—," but she checked herself. She wouldn't push her beliefs about Hawley's original herd just now. ''There are ways of 214 telling if new brands have been put over old ones, aren't there? I heard some men talking about it one day at the hotel." "Yes, that isn't difficult." She wasn't sure that Steve was fully convinced by her theory. His face was troubled and drawn. "Let's get to House Rock as soon as we can," he said. "Hawley should still be there." When they came to the top of the ridge overlooking the ranch buildings Helen stopped. "Steve, before we go on, I must tell you something else." She hesitated, wondering how he would take her revelation. "T want to tell you who I am and why I am doubly interested in getting to the bottom of this mystery." He regarded her wonderingly, but he had experienced too many surprises and shocks of late for anything to startle him. "Steve, my father helped your father build those houses and corrals. Together they created and built up the Double H Cattle Company. That herd which disappeared so mysteriously after Sam Huntsman's death—should be my cattle." He gasped. "You mean—I—I don't get it. Did Sam Huntsman leave a daughter in Chicago? Are you—? "Sammy Huntsman, junior — Helen, to please my aunt." "Then you're not mar—You're not Mrs. Latimer?" She hesitated for an instant. "Yes," she said slowly, "I'm also Mrs. George Latimer." She started Maje on down the trail. Steve's face was still blank' with amazement as he followed her. GROUP of men on horses were near the central cabin. Uncle Billy was the first to recognize Steve RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and Helen. He rode toward them. "Steve what are you doing here? What's Doc Grosbeck thinking of to let you come? You're like a ghost." "I'm all right, old scout. What's the news? Have you found Lon?" The old man shook his head mournfully. Weariness and discouragement were in his eyes. "Hawley thinks we'd as well give it up again." "With Lon missing?" "He says there don't seem to be nothing else to do. He thinks maybe Lon'li turn up agin like he did before, unless maybe they killed him this time. Anyway, he says, Lon's only an Injun." Steve's eyes flashed an anger to match that of the old man's. "Did he say that?' His face was grim as he rode to the group by the door. Helen feared for what he might do. But his voice was quiet as he greeted the men, though she could see his knuckles standing out white as his hands gripped the pommel of his saddle. "Uncle Billy tells me it's the same old story. So we may as well call it off. If you fellows who came out to help Mr. Hawley will leave your bills with him I'll settle later. Thanks Hawley, for coming out again." "I'm sorry, Steve,' Hawley said as he prepared to go. "It's a beastly shame this keeps happening to you. Wish I knew how to get to the bottom of it. But, as usual, there's nothing to get hold of." As soon as Hawley and his men were out of sight, Steve turned to Uncle Billy. "Did you know that Helen is Sam Huntsman's girl?" "Yes. I've knowed it quite a while. I didn't tell you, because I knew you'd worry more than ever over how things has gone, and I thought you had enough jist now." ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB "We've got to find out if Hawley's at the bottom of this business." "Hawley?" Uncle Billy's eyes fairly popped from their sockets. "He's yeller, of course, sayin' what he did about Lon, but surely—" "Let's go in and fix something to eat while Helen tells you what she's been telling me. Then we must get into action." They made Steve lie down on a bunk in one end of the room. Uncle Billy stirred up the fire and Helen put things about the room in order as she repeated her suppositions. "By my soul, I believe you're right. And to think we've lived here with the skunk all these years and didn't guess. But how's he been doin' it? That's the part we still got to find out." Steve lay watching Helen. His eyes were dark pools of melancholy. She seemed to feel his gaze and turned to look at him. "How do you like your shack?" he asked., She guessed what he was thinking and crossed to the bunk. "Don't be foolish, Steve. It isn't my shack." "Don't you think you should send for your husband to come and help straighten out this mess?" Uncle Billy brought food to Steve. "Yourn and mine is on the table," he told Helen. T that instant there was a noise outside, and the next moment Lon Dean burst into the room. They all gathered around him. "I see 'em go. Now I can come out and eat. Give me coffee. Give me bread." They could see that he was famished and they let him eat for a few moments before trying to get from him the things they wanted so much to know. It took some time for Lon to make 215 his story comprehensible. Not until he finally led them to Jim's Cave and revealed one of the strangest inventions ever devised could they be sure they were listening to facts. Lon explained how he had left the calves on that day before his first disappearance and had gone into the cabin to prepare his dinner. When he came out, the calves were gone. As on previous occasions, he tracked them to Jim's Cave, where the trail, of course, ended against the solid rock of the cavern. But as he came out of the cave and stood wondering what to do next, he suddenly was aware of a horseman beside him. He didn't know where the man had come from and was frightened by his sudden appearance. The stranger told him he had come to help find the cattle thieves and asked Lon to go with him. Lon got his horse and the two had ridden to the other side of the mountain, past Hawley's ranch to a trail under the rim of the canyon where Steve's calves were being driven to Hawley's range. He didn't know how the calves had got onto the trail, but he saw immediately that the secret trail led by way of the cutback in the canyon to the ridge joining Steve's range. He began asking the red-bearded Stranger questions, but he was suddenly knocked in the head, and fell from his horse. When he regained consciousness it was dark and he was alone. His hands were tied; his head was throbbing. After awhile he succeeded in loosening his hands, and bound his bleeding head with a handkerchief. He crawled back over the trail in | the darkness. At dawn he came upon his horse which apparently had escaped from his assailant. He reached a ridge on the mountain that was familiar, but his head hurt so 216 he scarcely knew what he was doing. When he came to a trail leading to Tess Morley's place, he gave the horse the reins and the next thing he could remember was awakening one day in a bed at the Lodge with Steve and Dr. Grosbeck standing over him, asking him questions about which he knew nothing. He couldn't recall anything. His memory came back, he explained, the day of the rodeo, when again he was watching the cattle—this time the young steers. The other boys had gone to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the rodeo for a few hours, so again he was alone. When he saw that the steers were gone, he followed as before down to jim's Cave where the tracks disappeared. It was at this point, however, that his memory of that other occasion flashed back to him. He felt that the stranger must have come from the cave. He went inside and to his surprise the dead tree at the back of the cave was moving. (To be Continued) SPRING By Beatrice E. Linford Dear God, each year you make the world More beautiful! This year you fair outdid yourself It's wonderful! Its splendor, and its freshness fairly Dazzle me, Such beauty it has never been My joy to see! Such sweet celestial songs and sunshine, Joyful spring! Such radiance has loosed my cold, Frozen heartstrings! My soul is all atremble, God, You are so near, I feel your presence, all life's meaning Seems so clear! EASTER By Elsie E. Barrett Easter voices the cry—'There is no death," Busy Nature proclaims it in rhythmic breath And marvelous displays In renewal of life after winter's lament, Bringing summer more charm for the season thus spent In preparation days. Every flower and tree in the valley's broad sweep Softly whispers with smiles "All will waken who sleep." Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon PRIL with smiles and tears Bespeaks the promise of the years For Eternity's wide garden. AMELIA EARHART'S latest venture to circle the world over the equator, carrying a laboratory equipment for scientific experiment is the thrill of the year in women's activities. MRS. MYRON C. TAYLOR, wife of the chairman of the United States Steel Corporation is credited with having opened the way for negotiations between the Steel Company and labor organizations. Would that woman's influence might always be as wisely used. KATIE BENNETT of Colorado, rural mail carrier for 31 years has retired at the age of 65. "The mail must go through" was her slogan and through sunshine or storm she went her way over rough unsurfaced roads. MRS. ELIZABETH WHITAKER, an honored pioneer mother of Utah, celebrated her 98th birthday last month. She led through the years a life of useful activity. MRS. ANGELINE CARTER died at 103 years of age, never having consulted a doctor until two days before her death. GRACE COOLIDGE'S husband, the late Calvin Coolidge, in his autobiography pays her this tender compliment. For almost a quarter of century she has borne with my infirmities and I have rejoiced in her graces." MISS LILLIAN FISCHER, Hollywood fashion expert, advises women to "wear hats that suit the face and really help you, 'Give you a lift.' Better to wear a becoming hat several seasons than have a lot of poor ones." ELIZABETH BERGENER is in London, starring with her usual success, in the Biblical play 'The Boy David." Blbu SAYAO of Brazil made her debut with the Metropolitan this season. She has previously appeared in opera in Paris, Milan and Buenos Aires. LUIS RAINER received the 4 award of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for the best performance by an actress in 1936. Her role was Anna Held in "The Great Ziegfeld." ROSITA DIAZ, beautiful cinema star is reported to have been executed by the Nationalists in war torn Madrid. MALVINA HOFFMAN, sculptress, has published a book of her experiences and travels in many lands titled "Heads and Tales." It is one of the most popular of the new books and extremely fascinating. Margaret Irwin's "The Stranger Prince," choice of the English Book Society and Willa Cather's "Not Under Forty," chosen book of the month by the Ailantic Monthly are also considered among the best of the late books. Lotta Paul: Baxter By Thomas B. Child (Bishop of the 10th Ward) LOTTA PAUL BAXTER L stands out as a_ successful homemaker, a loving wife, mother and stepmother, a patient nurse, a progressive teacher, and a loyal friend. She is also a good conversationalist, a forceful, interesting speaker, and altogether a thorough Latter-day Saint. She has thrust in her sickle with her might, laying up a store in heaven where neither moth nor rust can corrupt, nor thieves break through and steal. It would be a mistaken view to infer that her keen interest in the vital issues before us as a church are on the wane but rather that her retirement will give opportunity to the coming generation to take hold of its heritage and make its contribution to the work with new blood, new ideas and increased vigor. In her release the General Board loses a valuable member. SISTER Baxter was born February 14, 1870, on Valentine's Day, and has lived on the same city lot all her life. Since her children have married and made homes for themselves, she makes her home with her sister, Maude Paul, who is appreciative of her companionship. VISIT to their home is most interesting. It was built by her parents in 1862, and has about it the feeling and look of respectful seclusion and contentment which we strive in vain to imitate in our rapidly building cities. One enjoys the old fashioned mantel piece and fireplace with its burning log. Her mother's portrait, a painting by Ramsey, still hangs on the wall. This cultured lady set the standard for her family. She was president of the Relief Society in the Tenth Ward for over 30 years. She lived to the ripe old age of 91. Sister Baxter is proud to tell you that they are happy to be in the old home where the spirit of father and mother seems to dwell, for together they made the adobes of which the home was built. "Here we were taught the Gospel, and father in addition stressed the subject of Democracy. He loved Burn's Poems, especially "Cotters Saturday Night" and "A Man's a Man for A' That", which were often read aloud to the family." It is the hope of Sister Baxter and Maude that the old home will be respected and preserved as long as possible. Like Ruskin said of stones, they can say of adobes. "When we build, let us think that we build forever. Let it not be for the present delight nor for present use alone. Let it be such that our descendants will thank us for and let us think as we lay stone on stone that a time is to come when these stones will be held sacred because our hands have touched them and that men will say as they look upon the labor and wrought substance of them, 'See! This Our Fathers did for us.' "' The writer cannot help but make the comparison between this home and our growing modern idea of preferring a hotel with no responsibility or an apartment house where it is easier to move than go through the inconvenience of house cleaning. In her home furniture, rugs, light fixtures, radios, refrigerators, etc., do LOTTA PAUL BAXTER not have to be exchanged every year or so for the latest model. WHEN we speak of the home we must include the garden, "Just an Old Fashioned Garden" as the song says. You can see the two sis- 219 ters, who are students of nature, working in the garden at all hours of the day. Every type of flower adapted to this climate is carefully studied and cultivated. I ventured once to ask "Which is your favorite flower?" She replied "Just flowers, even to the LOTTA PAUL BAXTER 220 commonest and there is not a wild flower that grows that I do not love." She loves the great out-of-doors and says, "I get more actual proof of the resurrection from the garden than from any other source. When I want to be pepped up I get the seed catalogue and plan for spring." This love of the soil and the garden is in a great measure responsible for the practical side of her nature. It gives such a real demonstration as to. Whether one is failing or hitting the mark. She is very fond of poetry, especially Shelly, Tennyson and Edgar A. Guest and from all of these she quotes freely. Feeling the lack of a spiritual touch in Edgar Guest's poem on the home, she added this: "You've got to pray to make it home, And everyone unite, In asking God to bless you there, And keep you in the right. Then as you journey on life's way Toward the Master's throne, You'll know that prayer has sanctified And made your house a home." Dickens is a favorite author because of the social reforms he advocated. However she says 'My chief interest now is in Current Events, and stories have failed to interest me in my later life." When her youngest baby was three years old she took a course in literature at the University under the late Professor Reynolds. Sister Baxter has always taken advantage of the opportunities that have come her way. She was born in the Church; baptized at the age of eight; secretary of the Primary at nine. In 1887 was chosen as secretary of the Y. L. M. I. A. Of the Tenth Ward, Salt Lake City, which position she held until April 12, 1892, when she was chosen second RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE counselor to the President of the Y. L. M. I. A. From July 6, 1887 to April 26, 1903 she acted as President of the Association, and later served as an aid on the old Salt Lake Stake Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. When the Salt Lake Stake was divided into four stakes in 1904, she was chosen Stake President of the Y. L. M. I. A. Of Liberty Stake which position she held until 1912. Then she acted for one year as a teacher in the Tenth Ward of the Y. L. M. I. A. In 1914 she was chosen as second counselor in the Liberty Stake Relief Society and in October 1915 was set apart as President of the Liberty Stake Relief Societies which position she held until chosen a member of the General Board in 1921. Fifty-five years of efficient service have been given to the church, the last 16 being devoted entirely to the Relief Society General Board work. During this time she has visited almost every stake in the Church including Mexico and Canada. She has many friends in all places and was always a welcome representative and received many requests to return the visit. She says, "This service has been of priceless value to me and has given me a background that I could have received in no other way." One of the most notable changes she observes at the conclusion of her long service is the changed attitude of the Priesthood toward the Relief Society work. In the beginning the idea of cooperating with the Relief Society was new to the bishops, making it hard to get their attendance at conventions but now they work harmoniously in a common cause. She is considered an inspirational speaker, her success being in her sincerity, directness, and sympathy for workers, their struggles and failures. LOTTA PAUL BAXTER She is encouraging, always telling people how well they are doing. The mother of four children, she reared also her husband's family of six and a grandson whose mother died at his birth. Home is where she is to all her husband's children. Samuel E. Baxter, her husband, was a faithful High Priest in the Tenth Ward, Superintendent of the Sunday School, and came up through the ranks of the Church as did his devoted wife. The last five years of his life he was confined to his bed with a severe illness and during this entire time she waited on him herself, never complaining, always cheerful and willing to lend a hand to others even when over-burdened. She was a skillful manager in her home and knew how to get along when she had little to do with. When conditions in the home were the most discouraging she tried doubly hard to be optimistic. It is said of her that on these occasions she brought out the best linen and silverware to make the best showing possible. One of her favorite sayings is, "Tf you can't have both, be rich in spiritual rather than in material things." Dante said of Aristotle, "He was the master of them that know." I say the same for Lotta Paul Baxter and feel that she ranks with those strong characters and mothers like Anne Hutchenson and Elizabeth Fry, who in spite of every obstacle raise a family, capably express themselves, and make their contribution to the welfare of mankind. Those seeking work and the hungry were never turned away from her door. There was always some wood to be sawed or some work to be done in the garden. She is a wonderfully practical woman 221 and eminently fitted to be a teacher of the Relief Society work. People with whom she talks recognize in her a kindred spirit and she is often consulted privately by many people about their problems. She realizes that many of the criticisms of our failure to live up to the teachings of Christ are justified. An examination of her life will reveal the fact that she is a real disciple of the Master and entitled through her sacrifice, preparation, and righteous living to deliver his message in our generation, The criticism of John Stewart Mill was that our lives were a compromise between the Christian Creed and the interests and suggestions of worldly life. True as steel herself, she hates hypocrisy and sham and the just criticisms of John Stewart Mill are the evils she is trying to correct. She believes that these evils can be corrected through legislation as well as religion. She stands decidedly and loyally on the side of the poor and downtrodden. She is of the salt of the earth and her salt has maintained its savor. To put the thought of Thos. A. Kempis in my own language, her eye of intention and desire toward God and her fellow man has always been pure and thus she has made her way confidently through the storm of life. Life is real and life is earnest to her. She hates curiosity and gossip and condemns all those, like the Jews of old, who came to Bethany to the home of Mary and Martha, not to see Jesus but to see Lazarus whom He raised from the dead. There are only two classes of people, says Pascal, who can be called reasonable. Those that serve God with all their heart because they know Him and those who seek Him with all their 222 heart because they do not know Him. Native goodness and faith seem to be grounded more firmly in such characters as Sister Baxter than in most of us. Napoleon, when writing from St. Helena about the subjects he would like his only son taught in school, made this observation: '"But after all what you say to him, or all that he learns, will be of little use to him if he has not in the depth of his heart, that sacred fire of love of good which alone can accomplish great things." The fearlessness of her ancestors has been perpetuated. When conversing with her she is very interesting and you always know your mind will be awakened. She is no "yes woman." Robert G. Ingersol, writing on individuality, once said that a man of humble circumstances was invited to dine with a gentleman. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The man was so overcome with the honor that to everything the gentleman said he replied "Yes". Tired at last of the monotony of acquiescence, the gentleman cried out, "My good man, say 'NO' just once so there will be two of us." She is a good listener also but in the end will not hesitate to express her opinion. She obtained her power by obedience to the laws of the Gospel. Lotta Paul Baxter makes no claim of noteworthy attainment, but to the writer of this article her life is beautiful. Goethe, who was educated to judge the good, the true and the beautiful said, "My teacher taught me that the ideal of beauty is simplicity and repose, hence it follows that no youth can be a master." She is a master. "Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it." THE WOMAN'S PART By Caroline Eyring Miner T is great, and there is no other greatness—to make one nook of God's creation more fruitful, better, more worthy of God; to make some human heart a little wiser, manlier, happier—more blessed, less accursed." So said the great philosopher and historian, Thomas Carlyle, and in making this statement I think he meant to comfort Jane Carlyle, his brilliant, talented wife, who had stood by and sacrificed her possible fame and success for him and his career. He meant likewise to console all women in general who long to accomplish those things that will bring fame and renown but who are held down to home and family burdens and interests. Woman's nook is her home which she must ever strive to beautify, to keep clean and orderly, to make of it a fruitful school wherein her children may grow and develop and love and accomplish. She must strive to make of it a haven of rest and happiness and peace for her husband. If she, the ambitious family woman, succeeds in this, she is great, and the world will so acclaim her. It is a field, never crowded, and worthy the strivings of the most talented woman.
The Gift By Ivy Williams Stone
THE Hanks family had the distinction of being the poorest people in all the various communities where they had temporarily resided. They had the poorest house, the shabbiest clothes, the most children. But by a strange, ironical twist of life's compensations, the finest babies! Strong, sturdy, browneyed youngsters! At one country town, where the nondescript car had breathed its last throb, the Hanks' twins had captured first prize at the baby show. Thus, the family had been enabled to purchase a car slightly less worn than their other one, and to follow the lure of the highway to Littleton. In this "MORMON?" town things had been better. People were kinder, acting as though even poor folks might be human. The "Ligion Lady," as the Hanks' children called the visiting Relief Society Teacher, was most kind. She didn't pick up her skirts and look into corners where she shouldn't. She didn't act better and give curt orders about antiseptics and soap. She never criticized Ellis Hanks because he seldom worked. She didn't smile knowingly when Mrs. Hanks explained that a man might have a broken back and still eat hearty! Why this LIGION LADY even invited them to church, and when Mrs. Hanks went, in her shoes that were much too large and her coat that was much too thin, the Ligion Lady beckoned her and moved over and gave her a seat.
WHENEVER the Ligion Lady, otherwise known as Mrs. Wilson, mother of the beautiful, frail, golden haired little Marjorie Wilson, came to the Hanks' house, the look of hopeless resignation faded momentarily from the beaten eyes of Mrs. Hanks. Mrs. Wilson acted just like another real woman, with problems of rearing children and rustling food. She always took the youngest baby on her lap and made him shout with laughter; she managed to make all the other six Hanks' children smile with the joy of living, their auburn curls and luminous brown eyes and firm hard bodies a testimony to inborn ability to withstand privation. "How I wish they were mine!" The Ligion Lady would whisper, and every time she came she brought each child a gift. Never old, soiled clothing; never poor quality food. The clothing she gave was always clean and whole, with never so much as a button missing! The food was tantalizing, and each visit was followed by flour, or coal, and once shingles on the decrepit roof. And she sent a man to help lay them, remembering the broken back that Mrs. Hanks was always using to shield her husband. And, thanks to the ministrations of this good sister and her sister workers, the last two Hanks' babies had been hospital born. For the first time in her starved, down-trodden existence, Mrs. Hanks had known the joy of clean linen, the assurance of three meals a day, the luxury of a real bed. The nurses had been kind; the two youngest Hanks' babies had lain, side by side, with the children of the rich, superior in physical qualities, on a parity for attention.
ON a certain day in October, as she made her report to the Relief Society President, Sister Wilson looked discouraged. "There's so much sickness in my district," she reported. "One family with scarlet fever; a little boy dangerously ill with an ulcerated tooth, one father with a broken leg. And Mrs. Hanks will be needing hospitalization and another layette in the spring." "What? AGAIN?" Incredulity marked the voice of Sister Meecham. "Why, it was only last year that we sent her. We've scarcely gotten that bill paid." "Again," repeated Sister Wilson. "And it was last year, and the year before that, and maybe it will be next year too. And there's nothing left from the last layette. The only redeeming feature about them is the babies are finely built and strong. And beautiful too. The little girls look like Madonnas. I wish this baby could come to me. I have prayed for another baby for years." "The Lord will provide," methodically Sister Meecham reached for paper and pencil. "Coal and coats for the Larsons. Light bill for old lady Toole. Special shoes for lame Tommy Green. His paralyzed foot is getting shorter and shorter."
SISTER Wilson did not go to the Hanks' house again. And her good intentions about the layette were rudely interrupted when little Marjorie fell ill. The cars of doctors were parked for long stretches of time in front of the Wilson home. And, in spite of doctors, nurses, serums and administrations, the hand of death, bearing infantile paralysis, reached out for the beautiful Marjorie. The grief-stricken, childless parents faced long years of loneliness. Wide eyed and tearless they looked at the delicate body, ravaged by this strange, unfathomable disease. Friends vied with each other to help them in their sorrow; flowers in profusion were sent to the stricken home. At the graveside services, Mrs. Hanks, wearing a hand-me-down coat that was much too thin, and shoes that were much too large, stared at the profusion of flowers, the host of friends. She had been unable to send any flowers; she could offer no solace, and her thwarted soul yearned to extend sisterly sympathy to this woman who had given to the less fortunate so generously. The seven little Hanks, sturdy, hard bodied and beautiful, stood about wide eyed. From a respectful distance they had worshipped this delicate, fair haired little girl, who seemed to them like an angel.
As the days slipped by Mrs. Hanks formed a resolution. In all her years, this Ligion Lady was the one person who had treated her as an equal; as a real human. Surely the Lord would open the way for her to return this kindness. Thus, for an unexplained reason, Mrs. Hanks refused hospitalization for her eighth baby. She declined the proffered layette; but accepted with her usual humility the donations of miscellaneous clothing that various people sent. There were woolen baby shirts, somewhat shrunken; blankets that had accidentally been boiled; paling bunnies, slips and dresses of varying lengths. Whenever a package smelled suspiciously of soap and antiseptics, Mrs. Hanks laid it aside without bothering to open it. This eighth baby should conform to the old time standards of living as maintained by the Hanks' before their arrival in Littleton.
ON an evening in April Mr. Hanks came home jubilant and debonair. The air was full of the odors of spring; he had sighted a flock of wild geese migrating northward. The work of his particular project was finished, and there would be a temporary lull before the next project would need laborers. The highway lured and beckoned; the coins from his last check jingled in his pocket; the vision of further regular employment faded. A nostalgia for revolving wheels, gasoline and roadside camp grounds overpowered him. Three years in this one town had been too much. There were still many places Mr. Hanks had never seen. As soon as Ma was able to travel, they would move on. Having made his decision and feeling mentally relieved thereby, Mr. Hanks ran a joyous hand through his thick, auburn curls, revealing the cowlick that necessitated a side part. Perhaps, if this coming baby proved to be twins again, they could win another prize and buy a larger car! Mrs. Hanks recognized her husband's symptoms as readily as if they had been chicken pox or mumps. He took them spasmodically, but always they were the same. She sighed resignedly, and felt only surprise that she had been permitted to stay three years in Littleton among the kindly Mormons.
THE eighth Hanks baby was born in the small, dilapidated house, unattended except by Mr. Hanks and the eldest daughter. Wrapped in the illy matched garments, a fat, plump, curly haired little girl began life in a decrepit baby basket, one of two that had been donated. Unmindful of her handicap of birth, she slept peacefully, while her brothers and sisters gazed at her without wonder. Babies had long since ceased to be a novelty in their lives. Mr. Hanks spread his shoulders a trifle wider—the vision of the rolling highway was a little closer, and one more could readily be adapted to the accommodating auto.
A WEEK later the Hanks were ready to move. In the temporary absence of the others, Mrs. Hanks packed the baby in one of the two baskets; in the other she packed some valueless cartons. Then she took an old faded quilt, that had never known a bath, tore it in two and tucked a half over each of the two baskets. "We have to pack a new baby warm," she told the family, "Spring air mightn't be so good for her. This here other basket has some things we don't need, and I want to leave 'em with the Ligion Lady. Maybe there'll be other folks come to live here, that she'll want to help." In the middle of the night they were ready to start. Mr. Hanks wanted to be out on the long, open highway by the break of day. He loved to roll along as the sun came up; also he did not want any meddling officer of one of those relief projects to order him to another job. Somewhat irked at the delay, he drove into town at Mrs. Hanks insistence, to deposit the battered basket with the Wilson's. But a woman could be set in her ways, and realizing this, he toyed with the dog while Mrs. Hanks carried the basket to the front porch of the Wilson home, and set it carefully within the shelter of the porch wall. Then, with the friendly wind sweeping through his uncovered, uncombed, auburn locks, Mr. Hanks drove joyously on, his worldly wealth of children packed around him in the moaning car.
THE hastily summoned friends stood about the Wilson living room, as Mrs. Wilson, her eyes shining, the love of life again in her every movement, told and retold the story. "I was awakened by a funny little cry. Like someone shut in. I—I listened, and it came again. I followed the direction of the sound. God had heard my prayers! There, in this decrepit old basket lay the darling. A beautiful, little girl. O Sister Meecham, bring the layette the Relief Society made for Mrs. Hanks. Sister Brown, bring over your basinette! I cannot wait to get the darling bathed and properly clothed. Look at her lovely brown eyes, her plump hard body, her auburn curls!" "Who in the world could have left you a baby?" queried an inquisitive soul. "Who, I wonder?" parried Mrs. Wilson, with shining eyes. In her hand she held a crumpled, soiled scrap of paper on which had been written, in laboriously scrawled letters: "TO THE LIGION LADY."
TOLERANCE By Bertha A. Kleinman
Than courage for some far-off circumstance, Than fortitude for tasks remote and strange, More patience give me and more tolerance, For those I love, for those at closer range; More lenient I would be when others fail, When things go wrong that are not mine to mend, With prejudice and scorn of no avail— There would I train my verdict to suspend; Than wisdom, rather let me supplicate For patience and forbearance to condone; Than judgment in the weighty things of state More kindness let me culture for my own; I shall be wise when I can tolerate! I shall be just and all the rest can wait!
TAKE UP YOUR CROSS By Christie Lund
Shoulder your cross and bear it up the hill, There shall be strength enough, If there is faith, if courage like a still Star shining makes smooth the places rough. Take up your cross and know that God is good, Know that the dawn is mothered by the night; Know that your soul will soon stand undismayed Invincible upon this same hill's height.
Cross Questions By Agnes Just Reid
"DADDY, do you know that our little girl is smoking cigarettes?" There was an exercise of throat clearing, much rattling of a newspaper, then with a calmness that was not altogether convincing: "Well, yes, I have suspected it for some time." "Don't you care?" "Care? Of course I care. I haven't thought of anything else for weeks," "Why have you never mentioned it to me?" "Many times I have failed to mention such things to you, Margaret; you are so unreasonable. I remember that you cried until you were hysterical when you first heard that the Barret girl was smoking and she was only the daughter of a friend. I supposed when you heard this it would so upset you that it would make you ill. I felt I could not be the one to tell you." "Didn't you think I'd find out sometime? "Yes, I knew you were bound to find out sometime. It is only because of your complete trust that you have not found it out before. Her fingers show it. I've been trying to find a different job for her. The girls, where she is working now, all smoke and I suppose they were always reminding her that she could not do it because of her religion. I hoped if she got back with the kind of girls she went through school with, she would be as ashamed to smoke as she is ashamed to not smoke where she is. Loraine has always been too much inclined to follow the crowd." "Oh, Frank, I know that is true. Her favorite saying has always been "When in Rome, do as Rome does.' I never wanted her to work in that terrible office. I hate everything about it. What a failure I have been as a mother! "No, no," Frank assured, putting his arm around her. "It has been the hope of my life, from the time I heard her first cry, that she would go on a mission. I can't ever hold my head up again. I am disgraced in the sight of God and my friends," "There, there, Margaret, don't feel so bad about it. Lots of girls smoke. There are really worse things than smoking." "Yes, I know there are worse things than smoking but if every girl in the world smoked, the fact that our girl does would still be the same shock to me. God has entrusted her to you and to me. If she has disregarded the teachings of the Church and of our home, we have failed Him." "Oh, my darling, I'd hardly say that. Loraine is a fine girl. Yesterday you would have been incensed if anyone would suggest that she is not perfect. She is still the same girl. She does not think smoking is wrong when so many other girls do it." "Doesn't she? Well, then why did she try to keep me from knowing it?" "That is just because she knows what a fuss you will make about it." "No, I will not make a fuss about it. It is a hurt too deep for words. I dread to talk to her about it, but down deep in my heart I shall always know that something of her purity has been polluted. She has followed the crowd instead of her conscience. Something of the trust that I have felt in her all these twenty-five years of her life has been destroyed. I can never feel sure of her again. Always I shall be asking myself: 'When it comes to drinking will she follow the crowd? When it comes to breaking all of the commandments, will she follow the crowd? Has she lost the power to say no?" Margaret was sobbing hopelessly. "Oh, don't say that, sweetheart. She does not know how hard you are taking it. She should understand how you feel." "Who should understand how she feels?" Said a young voice behind them. Loraine had slipped in quietly thinking they were in bed. Her mother lifted a pitiful tear stained face from her father's shoulder. "What is it, Mommie dear, has someone been mean to you? "Yes, life has." "Life, mother? I do not understand. You are always so filled with the joy of life." "Until tonight, yes, but the joy has gone from it." She was sobbing again. Loraine thoroughly concerned, turned to her father. "Tell me what is the matter? Who has hurt my mother this way?" "You have." "I have? What have I done?" "Shall I tell you, or can you guess?" Something in her father's searching look carried the thought to her and the color left her face. "Who told you mother?" She asked in a strained voice. "No one told her. She just knows and it is breaking her heart." "Oh, my darling, sweet mother. God forgive me for ever bringing sorrow to you. I thought you'd never know. Why was I ever such an idiot?" Her father reached out his free hand and pulled her down beside them on the couch. "Loraine," he said, "there is a new job waiting for you with Arms and Jenkins. You'll be back with Peggy and Jean, the best friends you ever had. You can go to work there tomorrow. Don't you think for your mother's sake, for my sake, you can leave all of your mistakes of yesterday back at the old office and begin anew?" There was a long silence during which his two best loved clung to him and sobbed, then with her wet cheek against his, Loraine whispered: "God helping me, I will," and her mother leaned over and kissed her trustingly.
REJUVENATION By Emma Rigby Coleman
O, might I walk with God today, For springtime breezes fill the air; The earth is being born again And everything is freshly fair. He seems each spring to recreate, From dormant sod, a world anew. Just as His Son on Calvary's Cross Brought life, through death, for me and you!
A Man And His Idea By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
"The great thing in life is not where we are but in what direction we are moving."— O. W. Holmes.
In recounting pioneer experiences, particularly those that brought culture and refinement into desolation and poverty, we are inclined to think of women only as having made supreme effort. The story of how Ephraim, Utah, secured a library is the story of a man and the growth of his idea. Fort Ephraim was, undoubtedly, like other frontier towns in eighteen hundred seventy-three and four. It was a long way from centers of learning. A long way even from its parent city, Salt Lake City. But where it was mattered little for it was moving in the right direction, and the direction was toward greater cultural opportunities. It came about in this way:
EPHRAIM had the same problem that all towns, modern or frontier, have to face, that of what to do with their idle young people. Unlike some towns Ephraim had a man who recognized the situation and set about to remedy it. That man was A. C. Neilson, a returned missionary, and undoubtedly a man who loved and understood youth. About him he gathered the boys of the town from fifteen to twenty years of age. Like most frontier towns it was a composite group but being Ephraim it would have a more than average number of Scandinavians. It was in November, 1874, that Mr. Neilson organized the boys into a study group. They studied theology mostly, for there was small chance to study anything else. The class met in a building known as the South Ward School House. It stood where the Folmer Bertleson store now stands. The boys studied hard all winter but when spring came they were ready for action. What was there in this outpost of civilization that boys could do that they liked and still make money? A committee was appointed and after looking into various probabilities decided to burn lime. That was something everyone needed and something they could do. A scouting party was sent out and they found just the right place at the mouth of the canyon back of Ephraim. There they could get wood, pine and cedar, to burn and plenty of blue lime rock to be burned. They could have gone back and forth from home but that wouldn't have been nearly as much fun as camping out. So in a protected cove in the canyon they built camp. Under Mr. Neilson's direction a kiln was built. While some of the boys worked on it others hauled wood and rock. It took about four weeks to complete the kiln and burn the rock. Then it had to stand another two weeks to cool before it could be taken out and sold. There was no question about market for in those days everyone used lime. They used it to disinfect wheat for smut, to spray trees, to whitewash their houses and for numerous other things where a disinfectant was needed. During the six weeks the lime was in the making the evenings were spent in study and recreation. Their wise leader saw to it that they had something to take up their time and energy. The lime when taken out was in white powder form as the commercial product is known today. That was their beginning. With the money earned from the lime they broke up twenty acres of land and seeded it to wheat. This land had been homesteaded by A. C. Neilson and was given by him to the boys for their venture. They did so well with it they bought a threshing machine and called it the Young Men's Threshing Machine. They ran it for ten years. At that time Sanpete was known as the granary of Utah, producing as much as 250,000 bushels of wheat a year. So there was plenty of work for their machine and their profits grew.
IT was in 1874, too, when they began work on their library. When the money for the lime began to come in they spent some of it for room rent and put what books they had in it for the public to use. They canvassed the town for donations. Something to read, that was their big cry. Some two or three hundred books were donated. Beyond a doubt most of them were serious in tone for people did not carry trash that long thousand miles across the plains. Human energy was too precious and then trashy books had not yet seen their heyday. Yet in packing for the West many book lovers had tucked away volumes that were invaluable to them. To add to the donated books the boys bought reference works. Now Mr. Neilson's idea had really begun its growth. They had a library. From the first it was a success. In 1882 the group sold their land for about thirty dollars an acre and the profits were used for the library. The City Council pleased with the splendid effort, took over the project and provided more room and means. By this time the Y. M. M. I. A. Organization had reached Ephraim. When the city council took over the responsibility for the library they chose C. R. Dorius to direct the work. Mr. Dorius had been one of Mr. Neilson's boys and taken part in the project from its inception. At the time he was chosen for the library work he was President of the Mutual organization, Under his direction the work grew in extent and power. In 1912, largely through the work of A. W. Jensen, an attorney of Ephraim, a sum of $10,000 was secured from the Carnegie Foundation toward the erection of a building. P. D. Jensen was mayor and through his leadership and enthusiasm the building was started the next spring. It was completed in 1914. Since then it has made even greater strides than its founders dreamed of. It has today nearly eight thousand books, three newspapers and fifty-two periodicals. It has nearly twenty-five hundred borrowers who have cards. It averages a loan of 1098 books a day. Mr. Dorius is still with it as President of the Board. There is no way of computing the good Mr. Neilson has done by putting an idea into action but it is comforting to know that at least one man who was with it in the beginning has lived to see its fulfillment.
LESSONS By Ida May
In fifty years I've learned—a minute Has always sixty seconds in it. Twice twelve hours every day Use them, waste them as one may. To high or low, to rich or poor 'Tis never less, 'tis never more. A kindly act of some one hour Has in its grasp undreamed of power. The petty meanness of a second Returns to be both weighed and reckoned. For human love means more to me Than all the sky and earth and sea.
SPRING RHAPSODY By Grace Zenor Pratt
Your loveliness is all too poignant, Earth, Your beauty shakes my soul, striving to hold The sweetness of this springtime rhapsody. I would distill your fragrance, color, harmony, For some eternal memory, to keep within this heart, Forever more.... Just yesterday, it seems, by river's brink, I saw The pussy-willows bend on silver spray; 'Twas Spring! I hushed the eager song upon my lips. And bowed my head to pray... Today, a green hill calls across a valley wide,— A cherry tree, dressed like a lovely bride, Beckons to me... And here, a mocking bird spills liquid melody From out his tiny quivering throat... Pure silver, note on joyous note...... He may have sung to the wide world, you say— But ah, he sang this song for me, alone, today. I see the hawthorn's waxen buds unfold, exquisitely — A dog-wood, misty-white upon a hill; I glimpse an almond bloom, rose-pink upon a bough... The lush green meadows, tulips in the grass,... And weeping willows whisper as I pass. A row of new-leaved poplars, straight and tall Against a sunset sky, can hurt one so... I wonder why... A breath of lilac fragrance from a hedge Can bring quick tears in Spring, when one is passing by. The muted music of the sea and earth and sky is minor When hearts are all too willing to be glad, A bit of nature's melody can make them sad With its eternal mystery. O Earth, you are so beautiful, today... My voice is stilled... I cannot bear to sing, nor speak, But silent—pray.
INSTITUTE OF RELIGION 4602 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84107
He Finally Said "Yes" By Olive S. Felt
THE question was somewhat different from that to which a girl usually says "yes," but few swains ever toiled longer or harder nor were they more deserving of that word. It happened this way: When we bought our home four years ago there was an apple tree in the northwest corner of our back yard. It meant well, but it was overdoing things. It was losing all regard for anything in its way. One branch was interfering with a tall and beautiful arbor vitae tree, another limb was crushing down a dividing rose fence; and still another was disregarding all propriety of the art of staying "in your own back yard." I registered these faults when we moved in, but it being winter, I decided to wait and give the tree a chance to redeem itself during the green season. The vision of an apple tree in full bloom softened me somewhat, especially when that vision ripened into heaps of luscious apples. That would be something on a city lot. But imagine my disappointment the next spring when only four or five branches bloomed. I told my husband it was a bit out of place and should be taken out. He said, "No, it is good shade and covers the bareness of that corner." I said no more, for our back yard did give us comparative privacy.
THE next spring I felt repaid for sparing its life. It bloomed forth in all the glory that only an apple tree can. I anticipated gathering in shelves of golden apples. But to my horror, before the summer was over, there was not an apple left upon that tree. They had fallen, fallen, fallen, and lay in a yellow, wormy, rotting mass upon the ground. And they had utter disregard as to where they fell. In the neighbors' yards, among the flowers, and on the lawn; but when one had the audacity to seek out my head as a place to light, well—. I looked over that rotting mess, and resolved that it should never happen again. I spoke in this strain to my husband who merely repeated what he had said before.
THE winter cooled me off a bit, and by spring I thought little more about it. I was busy on the front yard. Then one day it happened! A man came to help with odd jobs and while I was directing him my eyes fell upon that tree. Without the least thought of consequence I said, "First, I'd like you to take out that apple tree." The telephone called me back into the house and it was half an hour before I went out again. Horror! Was that our back yard? That place with that gaping, open corner? The whole neighborhood seemed to be gazing and grinning through it. My heart sank. Could one tree make such a difference? I was heart sick. Couldn't it be planted again? I was in agony. It would take years to grow a tree in its place. The man saw what I saw and said, "I wondered if you'd like it." I walked toward all that fallen majesty and there appeared the face of my neighbor on the west. "I'm so glad you have cut it down," she said, "it was a bother in driving our car in and out of the garage, and it was ruining the fence." I directed the man to dispose of the tree and went back into the house. I dreaded my husband's homecoming. What could I say? I tried to build up a line of defense, but it was useless. I had none. So I decided to be very busy. Being busy might help me to bear the onslaught when it came. But it didn't come. In its place was stony silence. I ventured a few questions on the weather and his sick patients, but the words froze in mid-air. I really had not taken his "no" seriously. It had been given rather casually, I thought. Now I could see through its lightness. He had not taken me seriously. He had given me credit for better sense.
I HAD to do something, but what? A few days passed. Then with seeming nonchalance I asked him what he thought would look well in that corner. No help! Did he think this or that tree would grow there? Still no help! Finally, in desperation, I went to our gardener. Oh blessed relief! "A pergola covered with silver lace vine will do it," he said. "A flat top pergola. My budget allowed for very little over necessities. Should I hire a man to come and do it? No, I would do it myself. I made my plans and went to work. We had taken down a long pole once used as an aerial. I sawed that into four 8 ft. lengths and tarred about 1¼ ft. up one end of each. I had to buy the 2x4's for the connecting "beams" on top, but I bought used pieces and it cost me very little. I lived close to a lumber yard and could get all I needed of their trimmings for nothing. These I used for the lattice work. Some of them were strong enough for perpendicular reinforcements between the corner 4x4's. The holes were easy to dig, for the ground was loose where the tree had been dug up. I buried the tarred ends and stamped them in securely. The front two stood about 8 ft. apart, and the back ones about 7 ft. apart. The floor space was about 5 ft. deep. I was anxious to get the vines started so I planted them then. I wanted to buy three, but my gardener said two would do, so I reluctantly took his word. Those plants seemed to sense my anxiety, for how they did grow! (I think my gardener sensed something, too, for he gave me big strong plants.) I went on with the pergola. I nailed each strip about 8 in. apart up three sides and across the top. Before I had it painted the vines were half way up on it.
NOW for the rest of my plans. I have always had a weakness for water, and a pool and rock garden had haunted me from the beginning, but I had held them in reserve. Now success had made me bold.. Besides, it was all so intensely interesting. I ventured a question to my husband. As to size and position of the pool, but with stilted graciousness he suggested that I go on in my own way. In my youngster days we loved to picnic near a spring in the mountains. The spring was overhung with rocks, making a cave effect. That picture stayed with me, and I determined to reproduce it. My gardener suggested a place where I could get my rocks, so with his wife to direct me and a neighbor to help choose them we set out. We were near the mountains east of our home when Mrs. Gardener exclaimed, "Here, Mrs., this is just what you want." There lay an iron arch. Goodness knows how it got there or for what it had been used. I remembered her husband's cautioning me against one and that the top was already on the pergola. But her enthusiasm and my love for arches got the better of me, so we set about to figure out possibilities of getting it home. Believe it or not, that thing fit securely on the back bumper of my car. Without a nail, rope or wire, it rode all the way down that rocky road to the highway and on to home. Could any gardener discourage its use after such luck? He could not. I planted it in with the two front posts of the pergola and rounded the roof lattice in line with it. No architect could be more proud of a cathedral than I was of that pergola.
I NEEDED more rocks. Besides I had found none large enough to make the "cave" part. My neighbor and I went alone this time. On our way we spied the remains of a concrete cistern or culvert. There was an arched block about 3 ft x 4 ft. Just the thing! So we jumped out and attempted to roll it towards the car. How could anything of that size be so heavy? It was off the road about 30 ft. We finally got it alongside of the car, but try as we might, we could not lift it in. We thought of dragging it but I had neither rope nor wire. Suddenly I thought of the skid chains. Out they came and only as two women could do such a job, we hitched it to the car and proceeded to drag it home. But sadness befell us, for about two blocks above home we went over some car tracks and our block parted asunder. But both pieces held in the chains, so rather crestfallen we went on.
I DID ask a neighbor boy to help me dig the pond and place the rocks. To our relief we found the largest piece big enough for the cave roof. There were some wires sticking out of the front end. We bent these up and filled them with dry sod and dirt which covered up all signs of the cement. That end is now one mass of green rock cress. The rest was easy. We plastered the pool by hand. (It was so small, about 5 ft. by 4 ft., oval.) This made it possible for the grass to grow close up to and hang over into the water. I set out my rock plants and again a feeling of vast satisfaction surged through me. It was rather picturesque, if a bit crude. In fact, I caught my husband giving it special attention when he watered. And once he ventured forth with, "Why don't you put some of these petunias down in the rock garden?"
I have replaced some of the plants, (I suppose I shall keep on replacing) and planted some mountain moss around the edge of the pool. The vines completely cover the pergola—defects and all—and our back yard is again quite private.
WE spend our dinner hour there every evening in summer. It is the one cool place of retreat. People exclaim over its coolness. I look shyly towards my husband and say, "It must be the water that makes it so cool." But never would he commit himself. Oh, how I tried to draw out his opinion of that corner. Always the subject was changed. One evening I was telling a dinner guest something of my experiences. I said, "It is called —'s folly. Hubby, to this day, will not put his O. K. on it." "Well," she said, "he must think it is all right for he brought me here before you came out." My heart soared. He had sanctioned it, though not to me. Dare I approach it again? I would await my chance and try once more. It came early one morning as we were looking out after a night of refreshing rain. "Isn't that a glorious tree," I asked, pointing to the arbor vitae. "It surely is," he said. "And isn't that whole corner pretty now?' My heart nearly stopped beating but I looked straight up at him. "Ah—yes," he said, as he bent over me. He said it. At last he said "yes." What does it matter that the apple tree could have been sprayed? What does it matter that a landscape gardener might smile indulgently at my work? What does anything matter? He has said "yes."
Appreciation By Sadie Willes Adamson
WHO has not known the influence of a good story or poem and been bettered by its reading? Sometimes that influence has been the key note of success. A higher level has been reached. A better life has been lived. Many have found God. Sometimes the simplest story brings out the greatest lesson. The grasping plastic mind reaches out and by the easiest method tiny seeds are planted within the human mind that live, sprout, and grow; enriching the heart and soul. Reread the "Song of the Lark," by Arvilla Bennett Ashby, in the Relief Society Magazine, June, 1934, also "Old Hands," by Estelle Webb Thomas, in the March, 1934 issue. Try to visualize their deep meaning. After reading the poem, I felt it could indeed have been meant for my departed mother. It recalled her gentle ministrations and the beauty of her soul. She didn't care a lot for a career but she was very much interested in progress. I don't think I have ever met a woman who had a more cheerful outlook on life nor one who had so thoroughly the "Gift of Appreciation" as did she. She was educated, cultured and refined. I realize she has, left me a wonderful heritage and I only hope that I may live that my own life may be approved. May I climb the ladder of life gripping firm with "worn hands." What matters if I appreciate the meaning back of their appearance?
IN A GARDEN AT NIGHT By Florence Bedell
Last night I sat within a garden place And dreamed awhile where peaceful shadows lay; I thought of Him who came one night, Within Gethsemane to pray. And here I saw the slender lilies shine, Bejeweled with dewdrops silver white,— Then dreamed I of His tears that fell, Like pearls on lilies, that dark night. Close by my side a yearning crimson rose, Like blood against a moonbeam set, Whispered to me, the deathless love Of Him whose blood drops fell as sweat, Upon the hushed brow of Olivet.
The Building That Endures By Jennie Barlow Duffin
NEARLY all living creatures are builders. Beavers make dams; birds build nests; children fashion mimic fortresses; and men erect towers to last forever. But time destroys them all. Yet life goes on expressing itself in new and better forms: the palace rises where the cottage falls; and man, the master builder, heedless of the scythe of time, continues ceaselessly to build, and shall continue. Yet of all his mighty structures only one thing will endure, and that is Character. In the effort to build manhood and womanhood, there are many disappointments, many ruins. Everyone can look back upon noble resolutions which have tottered and fallen to the ground. But he that rises undaunted every time he falls, rises wiser, and is therefore building character.
LET us briefly consider what character stands for in human evolution. If we had before us a perfect man, in what varying aspects might we study his personality? There would first of all be the physical aspect. For were we to look upon human beings only as animals, and classify them in the order of physical perfection from the hunchback to the Apollo, could we doubt for a moment that character building begins on the purely physical plane? He who discovers the laws of nature and weaves them into hygienic habits of life, is building physical character; and to have physical character is to have health, vigor, beauty, power—all the physical qualities which are fundamental to perfect manhood and womanhood. We may next look at the intellectual aspect. Here human beings range also from the defective and feeble-minded up to such giants of intellect as Newton and Thomas Edison. What is it that distinguishes men on the mental plane? Is it not the power to think clearly and by thinking to conquer the forces of nature? Training and subduing them to the uses of man as we did the horse and the ox? What indeed, is the sum total of our material civilization, but the triumphs of the intellectual character? "It is good," says Shakespeare, "to have a giant's strength but it is tyrannous to use it like a giant." What attribute of mind and soul shall prevent us from using our strength as does the giant? This thought helps us to value the moral aspect of character, the power which makes for righteousness. Our universe—the world in which we live and move and have our beings—is instinct with moral law, just as it is with physical and intellectual law. Whoever discovers any principle the living of which would elevate the race—whoever seeks the good, the beautiful, and the true—and makes it a part of his daily life, is building moral character. It is on this plane that civilization is gradually moving upward. Physical character may furnish forth a valiant army; whether for war or for industry; intellectual character may discipline and direct that army to the marvelous material achievements of the present age; but moral character alone, the incarnation of justice, can insure the onward and upward movement of civilization. But there is yet a higher aspect of human development than that of justice; it is the law of love. Picture the Man of Sorrow, hanging on the Cross, suffering as it is not given mortals to suffer; jeered at and spit upon by Pharisee and hypocrite; and yet such was his love, even for his enemies, that he could pray, "Father, forgive them, they know not what they do." Such is the social aspect of character—mercy, sympathy, self-sacrifice, love; and all the world is a training school for it, if man could but forget selfishness and self. Lastly there is the spiritual aspect, the power by which we commune with the Infinite. Whoever attains even to the beginning of this power, enters heaven here on earth; whoever grows strong in it, becomes prophet and seer, learns to commune with God and angels, even while his feet still touch the earth. The perfect man would thus have a fine, powerful physique; a keenly trained intellect; a moral power capable of guiding his life into paths of justice; a power of sympathy and love extending even to his enemies; and lastly, a spiritual insight which should enable him to commune with the Source of all life and light.
CONTRAST now with this fivefold aspect of character-building, the pitiful ambitions which dominate mankind today. To be a millionaire satisfied the builders of a generation ago; now it is to be a multi-millionaire; and to what end? Merely to gratify the same passion for display, which led to the gorgeous court of Solomon. And yet looked at from heaven's point of view, how cheap such glories are! How fast they fade and wither! "Consider the lilies of the field," said our Savior, "they toil not, neither do they spin; yet Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these." Thanks to the clarifying vision of our age, more and more do men and women take the lily, rather than the golden throne, for the model of their lives; building character rather than heaping unto themselves riches.
IN four lines of Gray's immortal poem the foremost ambitions of mankind are pointed out as leading only to the grave. The "boast of heraldry" stands for antiquity of family, for blue blood, a form of glory, which attracts the American heiress, just as the empty title is attracted by her millions. Is it a noble ambition to strive for? The second ambition is the "pomp of Power"—an ambition as fierce among lesser mortals today, as it was with Napoleon, Caesar, or Alexander of old. But few ever attain it; fewer still make the world better for having attained it. To be in the public eye for a brief period may be a dazzling sensation; but is it a worthy or enduring ambition? Ask the meteor that blazes for three seconds across the sky, then sinks into the earth forever! "Beauty" is mentioned as the third glory for which mortals strive; but alas! It is not beauty of character, merely beauty of face and dress, of show and fashionable display. "Look on beauty," says Shakespeare "and you shall see 'tis purchased by weight, making them lightest that wear most of it." Then he mentions "the crispy, snaky, golden locks," often worn to dazzle and ensnare men's hearts, as being "the dowry of a second head, the skull that bred them in the sepulcher." Is it not a biting characterization of mere surface attractiveness? Gray puts "wealth" as the last and greatest of human ambitions. But even wealth fails to glorify man or woman, after the breath shall leave their bodies. In the language of the poet:
"The paths of glory lead but to the grave." "The boast of heraldry, the pomp of power, And all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave Await alike the inevitable hour: The paths of glory lead but to the grave."
But character—character leaps beyond the grave, it grows brighter as all human things fade. The earth and all its glories may pass away. But character still remains; for it is builded within the human soul.
THE BLUEBIRD'S RETURN By Adeline Rasmussen Ensign
I thought when I heard the birds singing That happy I'd be all the day, But Bluebirds I found were soon winging— I hadn't prepared for their stay. They flew to my neighbor's fair garden, A garden delightful to see, And stayed there—they found such a welcome, My neighbor had worked patiently. Then seeing my neighbor I asked her Why happiness stayed at her door, And smiling she gave me the answer, A secret she'd learned long before. "I never leave weeds in my garden, I pull them when ever they start, For weeds are my faults and I pluck them Before they cast stains on my heart." And now I can hear the birds singing, And happy I am all the day, I'm weeding the faults in my garden, And Bluebirds are coming to stay.
LONESOME By Ella J, Coulam
I miss you in the Springtime I miss you in the Fall, But oh! On Winter evenings I miss you most of all. The world seems cold and dreary When you are far: away But when you come back home again, Then Summer will come to stay.
Notes to Work and Business Department
THE linoleum cut which took the first prize in the recent contest conducted by the Work and Business Department was used by the General Board at a dinner party given in honor of the First Presidency and members of the Quorum of the Twelve. Mrs. E. H. Slade of Weber Stake, winner of the prize, reproduced one hundred copies of her original design on dainty rice paper which she tinted by hand. These were used as a decoration on a folder at each plate which contained the program and menu. They were very artistic and were much admired.
Theology Department
"Theology is a Semaphore pointing the way to Life Eternal."
THE lesson "The Miracles of Christ", is the concluding lesson of the 1936-37 group. These lessons have all been presented for the purpose of strengthening the testimonies of Relief Society women in the Divinity of the Savior: in the words of John, "That Ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, and that ye might have Light." This seems an opportune time to review, clarify and clinch the objectives of the lessons which have been taught. For example, in what way was your testimony of the Divinity of the Savior strengthened by the lesson, "Christ's Ministry Foretold by the Prophets?"—"Christianity Before the Christ?"—"The Divine Code to the Ideal Life?" etc. In presenting the lesson "The Miracles of Christ", opportunity is afforded to further strengthen the testimonies of the women by showing that Miracles are an essential characteristic of the true Church of Christ, that they are a testimony that the promises of the Savior through the Prophet Joseph Smith have been realized.
The Field
Article Seven of the Articles of Faith might well be quoted as an introduction to this lesson. In view of the fact that there are so many interesting and important phases to this lesson, some of which are more familiar to the class members than are others and therefore apt to receive more than their due share of attention, it is suggested that class leaders in preparing this lesson make a clear, logical, concise lesson plan. In doing this we are more able to maintain a proper balance among the various parts of a lesson, and give to each phase it's proper amount of attention, as well as to control any part of the lesson which might have a tendency to get out of hand. In preparing this plan all material contained in the Magazine should be included. Discussion might be profitably divided among the following headings.
Nature and Purpose of Miracles. Value of Miracles. Pattern—Church of Christ Miracles—Illustrative Types. Present Church and Miracles. Types. Miracles essential characteristics of True Church Sacredness. Our responsibility.
As Latter-day Saints we recognize that we should maintain our distinctiveness as a Church, in that we should recognize the power of God to perform Miracles now and in the future, not only such as were performed in the past, but even greater, however, in view of the modern tendency toward unbelief and even ridicule, we must bear in mind the commandment recorded in The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 84:73, "But a commandment I give unto them that they shall not boast themselves of these things, neither speak them before the world; for these things are given unto you for your profit and salvation." Good judgment tells the Latter-day Saint NOTES TO where, when and to whom to relate the miraculous. In presenting miracles performed in the present day it is advisable for the teacher to adhere closely to recorded history. In presenting these lessons it is THE FIELD 241 suggested that as much of the material contained in the Magazine be drawn from the class as possible. Class participation is an essential part of good teaching. The women are subscribers to the Magazine, read the lessons and love to contribute.
A Happy Experience By Nettie D. Bradford
THE study of the life of Julia Ward Howe brings forcibly to my mind some pleasant experiences my husband, Dr. Robert H. Bradford, and I had while he was majoring in Metallurgy and working for his Ph. D. At Columbia University, New York City. Dr. Henry Marian Howe, son of Julia Ward Howe, Prof. of Metallurgy at Columbia, was considered the best authority on Metallurgy in this country and for that very reason my husband went to Columbia in order to do his thesis work under Dr. Howe's personal supervision. No teacher could have been more kind, helpful and interested in any one than was Dr. Howe in this young Mormon student from Utah. They had many conversations together during which the principles and doctrines of our Church were freely discussed. Dr. Howe was a gentleman and a scholar in every sense of the word. Shortly after we were settled in our little apartment Dr. Howe and his wife came to call on us. It was a Sunday afternoon. My baby not being well, I had remained home from church and when the door bell rang I wondered who it could possibly be. Upon opening the door I was surprised to see a distinguished looking lady and gentleman—both rather small in stature —who introduced themselves as Dr. and Mrs. Henry Marian Howe. They were very friendly and made me feel quite at ease in their presence. A short time before Thanksgiving Day we received a note from Mrs. Howe inviting us to their home for Thanksgiving dinner. We were young and inexperienced so I worried considerably—what should I wear?—was it proper to take the baby? (I had no one to leave her with). The evening arrived. When we reached the home we were met at the door by the butler who, after assisting us in removing our wraps, formally announced "Prof. and Mrs. Bradford." Dr. and Mrs. Howe greeted us very cordially and after chatting for a short time in the drawing room dinner was announced. A most delicious turkey dinner was served. Nothing could have been finer had we been real dignitaries. Dr. Howe related incidents of his father's work with Laura-Bridgman, the blind and deaf girl, and many events in his mother's life. After dinner we were taken up stairs into Dr. Howe's "den" where they showed us many relics and gifts to their parents from the nobility of Europe, also a copy of "The Battle Hymn of the Republic" in his mother's own hand writing. It was then that Mrs. Howe gave our baby a little porcelain dog to play with and insisted that she take it home with her; this, she still has among her most treasured keepsakes,
Notes from the Field Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary
PROGRAM OF QUEENS WARD, NEW YORK STAKE New York Stake
AN impressive portrayal of the Relief Society Magazine was given by the Queens Ward of the New York Stake at its annual meeting. The thought was to bring the organ of the Society vibrantly before the whole Ward. To this end a large copy of the cover of the Magazine was set up on the stage. The President of the Queens Ward, Eva Frampton Driggs, after speaking briefly on the work the organ is doing in holding Relief Societies all over the world in unity, and in bringing inspiration and practical help to officers and members everywhere, announced that some of the living pages of the Magazine would be opened. The curtain was drawn, and Flora Tanner Woolf stepped forth from the pages of the Magazine to introduce with appropriate historic setting the past Presidents of the whole Relief Society. When the leaves had been closed on these living pictures out of the past, they were again opened to give something from the living present. Following this a trio was sung. Finally came a little play, "The Bible at the Fireside," enacted to make vivid the "Home Project." The program was enjoyed by most of the members of the Queens Ward, and by a goodly number of visitors. It was generally acclaimed as one of the best ever given in the ward. - It was unified, varied, filled with choice entertainment, and with lasting lessons out of real life. More than this it achieved its central purpose—to impress the vital values in our Relief Society Magazine.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 243 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE PORTRAYED Standing Left to Right: Beth S. Driggs, Ethel L. Handley, Thyra T. Stoddard. Seated, Left to Right: Lois Park, Margaret C. Merrill, Bernice Dyer.
Big Horn Stake
WITH deep gratitude for past blessings, this progressive Stake began the New Year. "The annual ball, January 3, 1936, provided a social atmosphere where all could relax when Father Time had written 'Well Done' after the labors of Nineteen Hundred and Thirty-five. Patriotic February, the month of Pioneer story writing contests, is replete with hallowed memories of early life among the Mormon Pioneers. March brought us much closer to our ancestors and added another page to a record already rich in memories of other Annual Days, and Biographies of many brave and wonderful men and women. April is truly a month refreshing. Our representatives to the General Conference braved much storm and zero weather, and brought back a blessing to our Stake. May saw our Stake Board strengthened by the appointment of three new members. Then the Cantata, "Spring Cometh," presented at our Union Meeting and by special request repeated in the general assembly with the Priesthood. And everywhere throughout the Stake, gardens gave promise of a bounteous harvest. June gave us a thrill which will not soon be forgotten. The observance of Daughters' Day, honoring General President Clarissa S. Williams, is remembered with reverence for its hallowed story of mother love and service, and the devotion of lovely daughters. Something happened in July which must be classified as history-making events in this Stake. July seventeenth may, in the not far distant future, be a red letter day on our calendar of humble beginnings of important undertakings, and may be remembered as the birth of an in- 244 stitution. It marks the beginning of our Music Institute which today is remembered by enthusiastic music leaders in all our Wards. Another corner-stone was laid July Fourteenth upon which stands an edifice of great strength and beauty in community life. The organization of a Relief Society at Cody, with six members, which has today more than doubled its enrollment, and has already been recognized as an efficient organ through which City Welfare Organizations can work to better advantage. In its activities it is abreast of many of our older associations. In July also the Relief Society mothers cooperated with the Aaronic Priesthood leaders to stimulate greater activity among the members. August, a lucky month for the Roman Emperor Augustus, was not less splendid for the Big Horn Stake. The movement for a Leadership Week had its inception within the realm of Relief Society, but our Presidency were quick to realize a Stake-wide benefit to all auxiliaries and took command of the Ship of Leaders and enlisted the support of the General Authorities of the Church. Crowded classrooms was the answer. It is pleasant to remember, in connection with this great undertaking, the unselfish spirit of our beloved leaders, President Archie R. Boyack and President Hazel N. Boyack, who forfeited a well-earned vacation, a trip which would have taken them into important eastern cities to obtain suggestions for bringing greater educational opportunities to the good people of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the Big Horn Basin. The joy which came from seeing the eager, enthusiastic lesson groups, may, we hope, prove a compensation to these able educators. Before we leave this period of activity we are reminded that those who missed the wonderful display of fresh and preserved fruit and vegetables during our conference week, really missed a wonderful exhibit, and an opportunity to see many varieties new to this locality. We hope no one missed the music festival presented by the combined Relief Society Choruses. In September the air was filled with the clarion cry, BUY A MAGAZINE! This campaign completely overshadowed all other of our Magazine efforts in the Big Horn Stake, having four Wards among the ten leading ones of the Church. Our sincere gratitude goes to our loyal and efficient Ward Presidents and workers. October brought another golden opportunity for garnering inspiration from the General Conference for the Winter's work. ~- November's bright spot was the visit of our General Board Member and the extensive exhibit of useful and decorative articles during our conference-convention. December distributed many blessings to the needy in all Wards in conformity to the Relief program launched in July. 'And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto ME.' December ends with our Aspirations and Goals set higher for Nineteen Hundred and Thirty-seven.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - President AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - First Counselor KATE M. BARKER - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD
Emma A. Empey Nettie D. Bradford Janet M. Thompson Annie Wells Cannon Marcia K. Howells Belle S. Spafford Elise B. Musser Emeline Y. Nebeker Donna Durrant Sorensen Jennie B. Knight Mary Connelly Kimball Vivian R. McConkie Inez K. Allen Lalene H. Hart Leda T. Jensen Ida P. Beal Beatrice F. Stevens Cora L. Bennion Rae B. Barker Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Mary Connelly Kimball Manager: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
Vol. XXIV APRIL, 1937 No. 4
Editorial
Sacrament Meeting
ALL too few of our people sense the great importance of attendance at Sacrament meeting. It is a commandment of our Father that we should meet often and partake worthily of the emblems of the broken body and spilt blood of our Redeemer. Only unavoidable things should keep Latter-day Saints away from this service.
MANY do not seem to sense that the primary object of attendance at Sacrament meeting is that the soul may be spiritually fed through the partaking of the Sacrament, worshipping God, and holding in constant remembrance the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ. So many are now expecting some fine musical feature or some extra good speaker, otherwise they fail to attend. If older women take this attitude, what can we expect of their sons and daughters?
ONE time a young girl after attending Sacrament meeting said, "Well, I didn't get much out of that meeting." Her mother rebuked her by saying, "Then you didn't take much to it. You always bring away in proportion to what you take. If you went seeking spiritual light and to worship and partake worthily of the Sacrament, you would come away enriched."
ALL too often there is lacking as strong a spirit of worship in these gatherings as there should be. We sometimes wish that we could get the reverent attitude that many of the people of the world have in assembling in their churches where they earnestly pray and seek for things of the spirit.
AT a ward conference recently one of the presidency of the stake pointed out that Sacrament 246 meetings are not only for adults but also for children. He urged parents to bring their boys and girls to the Lord's House on the Sabbath that they may be built up and renewed and form the habit of attending these important meetings. Mothers, are you taking your boys and girls with you on the Sabbath Day to the Sacrament meeting? I have observed our Bishop's children from the time they were babies accompanying their parents to these meetings setting an example to the entire ward. Many other parents do the same. These children are happy and enjoy the association. They are brought up in the way they should go, and we feel sure that when they are old they will not depart from it.
Drifting From Fundamentals
ONE of our fine new Stake Relief Society Presidents at a Church Security Regional meeting recently said, "I am glad the women are called upon to do something. I was raised from paper bags. When I was married, my husband took me to a forty-acre farm. There was nothing on it. We had to do everything ourselves. I soon found that everything that had to be done I loved to do, whether it was helping plant potatoes, raising chickens or what not. We have had eleven children. We have worked; they have worked; and as they have become ready for the university, we have been able to send them there." Women today need to face life and master difficulties as did this woman. They are drifting too far from fundamentals. Mothers are not training their daughters to do the homely tasks that women have done throughout the ages. Any woman who does not teach her daughter how to make good bread, has failed in instructing her in one of the necessary things that a girl should know. Unless girls are taught to sew in school, many grow up unable to do plain sewing or fashion tiny garments. Two things result unless these girls have innate ability along this line, either they suffer intensely in learning how to make their children's clothes or they buy them all ready made or hire them made. This makes a big, unnecessary drain on the income.
Daughters' Day
EVERYONE who deeply appreciates Relief Society and realizes how much it does for its members is anxious that others should enjoy its opportunities and privileges. Sister Jennie B. Knight at the 1936 April Conference called attention to a rich source for recruiting our ranks—our daughters. As an effective way of introducing them to the spirit and work of Relief Society she suggested the annual observance of Daughters' Day in every Relief Society in the Church. The two-fold purpose of the Day is first to magnify the blessing of motherhood; second, to have daughters who are not members of the Society give the program as a means of interesting them in the activities of the Society so that later they will be anxious to join our ranks." While the suggestion was made that April.21 be set aside as Daughters' Day, because it is the birthday of President Clarissa S. Williams, EDITORIALS our sixth General President, who was the mother of eight daughters, any day may be used that will be best suited for this purpose. Some have reported that they have enrolled some of the young women who became interested in this great work through observance of Daughters' Day last season. What a boon this organization is 247 to young mothers, taking them for a short period of time, from the routine of life and giving them a new outlook, food for thought, and an understanding and interest in this great organization. Presidents, do not forget the proper observance of this day. Let no year pass when it is not an outstanding feature of the year's events.
The Fussy Individual
WE presume no one has escaped the distress caused by a fussy individual "one who makes unnecessary ado about trifles." I know a woman who almost always when she comes into a room where a group of her friends are, says it is either too hot or too cold, there isn't enough air or there is a draft, there is too much light or too little, so when she arrives there is a feeling of expectancy. Her friends wonder what she will want to have done first. A group may have been happily considering problems, but when she arrives, they are disturbed by the lowering and raising of windows and blinds. Fussiness grows rapidly in one who does not nip it in the bud. How terrible a thing it is to let it grow upon one until he becomes what Arnold Bennett calls "the complete fusser" may be gleaned from the following: Mr. Bennett says, "The complete fusser has slowly convinced himself that the proper fulfillment of his destiny depends absolutely upon about 10,000 different things and he attaches a supreme and quite vital importance to all 10,000 of them." Mr. Bennett thinks even this individual, though, has a use, as he may serve as a "terrible warning to pull up." It is a terrible thing to have a disease that has no cure. Mr. Bennett says, "There is no cure for the complete fusser, because he is unconscious of being fussy. What the world regards as fussiness he regards as wisdom essential to a reasonable existence. He sincerely looks down upon the rest of mankind. Spiritual pride puts him into the category of the hopeless case—along with the alcoholic, the kleptomaniac, and other specimens whom he would chillingly despise." Fortunately few became "complete fussers." The thing to do is nip the thing in the bud. Examine yourself carefully. When you go to a table do you spoil the meal of all who sit around it by your fussiness, loudly proclaiming that you can't eat this, that you can't eat that, that this is not good for one and that is very injurious. Many a hostess has had a delightful dinner or luncheon spoiled by such people. If there are certain foods that you can't eat, say nothing about it and eat those you can. Are you so fussy about some little defect that you fail to enjoy the whole? If your introspection reveals that you are peculiar, lose no time in overcoming your peculiarities, for a fussy individual can destroy the peace, happiness and well-being of any group.
Lesson Department (For First Week in June) Theology and Testimony Lesson 9
THE MIRACLES OF THE CHRIST
Helpful References In the Bible: Matthew 17:14-21; Luke 7:1-10; John 2:1-11. Talmage: Articles of Faith, Chapter 12. Renan: Life of Jesus, Chapter 16 (Use discreetly).
1. Primitive Church Blessed With Spiritual Graces. The miracles of the Christ were among the graces with which the Primitive Church was blessed. They were by no means the most important graces; nevertheless, they were numerous enough and of such a nature that they command the attention of all men. The simple account of them in the Gospels has exerted, and still exerts, a powerful influence upon the world. The divine ministry of our Lord was bound, in its very nature, to manifest some outward evidences of God's love for His Son. In every: age of the world, when the priesthood of God has been given to men, certain unusual spiritual powers have operated to bless the people of the Church. These blessings will never cease so long as men have faith in God. Mormon, one of the last of the Nephite prophets, said, "It is by faith that miracles are wrought; and it is by faith that angels appear and minister unto men; wherefore, if these things have ceased, wo be unto the children of men, for it is because of unbelief, and all is vain." (Moroni 7:37.)
2. Modern Unbelief. It is unfortunate that the miracles of Christ's ministry are doubted in certain influential circles. This doubt, some would have us believe, is steadily increasing. It is not our purpose in this lesson to take much space in closely analyzing the situation. Suffice it to say, that we all ought to be watchmen upon the towers of Zion and to take note of the tendencies of our time. Many modern writers hold that primitive Christianity was very credulous, and that people were constantly looking for occurrences bordering on the supernatural. One great Jewish scholar classifies the miracles of the Christ as follows: (1) Miracles due to a wish to fulfill some statement in the Old Testament or to imitate some prophet. (2) Poetical descriptions which, in the minds of the disciples, were transformed into miracles. (3) Illusions. (4) Acts only apparently miraculous. (5) The curing of numerous "nerve-cases." In a few words this represents the type of criticism brought to bear, by modern critics, against the miracles.
3. Miracles Not Performed to Satisfy Idle Curiosity. Our Lord did not perform miracles on any occasion to satisfy the idle curiosity of men. In most instances miracles were performed to alleviate pain and suffering, either mental or physical. They were acts of mercy and kindness extended by the Savior out of pure love and sympathy for His fellow men. How different the attitude of certain Pharisees toward miracles! "Then certain of the scribes and of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Pharisees answered, saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee. But he answered and said unto them, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it." (Matthew 12:38-39). The law here enunciated by the Christ in reference to sign seckers is cited by the Prophet Joseph Smith with approval, and he remarks that it is "eternal, undeviating, and firm as the pillars of heaven." (See Parry — Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 10, 163). In the present dispensation numerous Elders of the Church have had occasion to observe the truthfulness of the Savior's statement. Miracles will never be performed for anything except righteous purposes. In a revelation given March 8, 1831, the Lord speaks in this wise of the gifts of the spirit: "For verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my commandments, and him that seeketh so to do; that all may be benefited that seek or that ask of me, that ask and not for a sign that they may consume it upon their lusts." (Doctrine and Covenants 46:9.)
4. Types of Miracles. The Gospel of John is replete with instances of miracles performed by the Master. In the second chapter of his record John writes, "This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory; and his disciples believed on him." (John 2:11.) Near the close of the record, he says, "And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book: but these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the son of God; and that believing ye might have life through his name." (John 20:30-31.) John realized the true 249 significance and value of the miracles performed by his beloved Master, and he emphasized them in his writing. The first miracle performed by Christ, the turning of water into wine, is of peculiar interest, because it was performed on a particularly joyous occasion, that of a marriage in Cana of Galilee. (John 2:1-11.) The Christ and His disciples were there, as also was His mother. When the wine ran short, our Lord, in a manner known only to Him, exercised His power by turning water into wine to be used at the feast. There was no ostentation or vain display; it was done to further innocent pleasure and to give to the happy occasion the stamp of His divine approval. Not the least value of the miracle was the fact that it strengthened the faith of His disciples. The miracle reveals to us that the Son of God was not "long-faced" as many moderns would suspect Him to be. He partook of innocent pleasures, and enjoyed seeing others engaged in happy amusements. The healing of the centurion's servant is another type of miracle of which there are at least nineteen recorded in the Gospels. (Luke 7:1-10.) A leader of Roman soldiers had a beloved servant who had become ill, "ready to die." For some reason, unknown to us, the centurion had faith enough to implore the Christ, through Jewish elders, to heal the servant. The Savior yielded to his importunities and started with a small company to the home of the centurion. The latter soon learned of the approaching party and sent messengers to say he was not worthy to have the Master in his home. "But," said he, "say in a word, and my servant shall be healed." The centurion thought in simple terms. If Jesus were really the Christ he could command, even 250 at a distance, and the servant would be healed. Christ was master of the elements even as he, a centurion, was master of a band of Roman soldiers. Christ marveled at his faith and said, 'I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel." (Luke 7:9.) This miracle, like the others that had to do with healing processes, revealed the tender compassion of the Christ for those with physical ailments. In the instance of the centurion there is added significance in the fact that our Lord was willing to heal a Gentile, one outside the body of the chosen people. The mercy and compassion of the Christ is extended to all of God's children, whether in the fold or out of it. The only other type of miracle we shall consider here is that which has to do with the casting out of demons. There are four such instances of great interest mentioned in the Gospels. (See Luke 4:33-37; Matthew 12:22-37; 8:28-34; 17: 14-21). These references will richly repay close study. The power of evil spirits to afflict and torment certain human beings is not generally recognized in the age in which we live. Instructive is it to note that certain evil spirits recognized the Christ and cried out. He rebuked them and commanded them to come out of their victims. In one case (Matthew 17:14-21) the demon refused to come out at the command of the disciples of Christ. When the Master later cast out the demon he had to instruct His followers that some evil spirits "goeth not out but by prayer and fasting." We do not fully understand the powers of the unseen world. This we do know by experience, that faith and prayer, coupled with the powers of the priesthood, can overcome the power of Lucifer just as the Savior demonstrated to His followers long ago. "And Christ truly said unto our fathers: If ye have faith ye can do all things which are expedient unto me." (Moroni 10:23.)
Questions
1. What Article of Faith expresses the belief of the Church with respect to spiritual gifts? Let the class repeat it.
2. Does the Church still have the spiritual gifts that were to be characteristic of it? If so let members of the class relate some incidents that are faith promoting.
3. Are miraculous manifestations confined only to the operations of the priesthood?
4. Why is it usually unwise to broadcast to the public at large the occurrence of miraculous manifestations?
Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.)
1. Read carefully Matthew 1]:22- 23; 2:5-6, 14-15, 17-18; 3:13; and John 2:9-11, 23; 4:49-50, 54; 9:16; 20:30. How do the two Gospels differ in method? State as clearly as you can the reason for which you judge each was written.
2. Examine the beliefs of scholars, as the lesson sets forth, in the light of the Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 24:13; 35:8-11; 45:8; 46:21.
3. State the Book of Mormon teaching respecting miracles. Consult 2 Nephi 10:3-4; 26:12-13; Mosiah 3:5-6; 3 Nephi 17:5-10; Mormon 9:15-20.
4, Let the class determine whether or not the performance of miracles is an infallible sign that a man is sent of God.
Teacher's Topic (For June)
THE UNMERCIFUL SERVANT Matthew 18:23-35
"THEREFORE is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king, which would take account of his servants. "And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him ten thousand talents: "But forasmuch as he had not to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made. "The servant therefore fell down, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. "Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him, and forgave him the debt. "But the same servant went out, and found one of his fellow-servants, which owed him an hundred pence; and he laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. "And his fellow-servant fell down at his feet, and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. "And he would not; but went and cast him into prison, till he should pay the debt. "So when his fellow-servants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their lord all that was done. "Then his lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou desirest me: "Shouldest not. Thou also have had compassion on thy fellow-servant even as I had pity on thee? "And his lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him. "So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespasses."
The parable shows the possible extent of sin in the individual as well as the extent of divine forgiveness and is intended to enforce the true spirit of forgiveness. Jesus was well aware that no law of the kingdom is more difficult to obey. The pardon of personal wrongs is not easy because of the desire for revenge and retaliation. Yet these feelings must be subdued before true forgiveness will come. The generosity of the king is typical of God's loving kindness as Jesus would show by this comparison of the sinner to God. Mercy received should be recognized by mercy shown. The wrongs we suffer should weigh as nothing compared with wrongs we commit. We, ourselves by our own unforgiving spirit close the door against God who is always ready to forgive. The feeling of forgiveness comes to us when we put ourselves in a position to receive it. No life can be open for forgiveness that harbors resentment. Revenge is not sweet: it returns to us to warp and darken our own souls. Christ, most unjustly treated by the people he had come to serve said, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." We often make mistakes in judg- 252 ing the motives of others and fail to forgive as we should as a result of this. If we do not forgive, how can we hope to be forgiven? "Judge not that ye be not judged. For with what judgment ye judge ye shall be judged and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again."
Discussion
Are we willing to extend to others the same charity and loving forgiveness that we expect to receive ourselves?
Work and Business (For June)
EQUIPMENT AND METHOD OF HOME LAUNDRY
TO do or not to do the family laundry at home is the question many women ask themselves. There are many arguments for and against it, taking into consideration points difficult to measure by the dollar-and-cents yardstick, but however answered and whatever method used the housewife wants her wash to be clean, sanitary, with white clothes white at low cost, prompt and efficient service, and a saving of time, energy and clothes. In trying to solve this problem for yourself don't listen only to the home laundry equipment salesman who warns against terrible chemical, unsanitary plants and awful ripping and tearing machinery in his competition plant. Don't heed only the commercial laundry salesman who tells of horrible washer accidents and chronic physical ailments from his competitor's home appliance shop. Visit your commercial laundry, talk with the manager and see how and under what conditions your clothes are cleaned and compare with your own methods of washing. Then select your home equipment or commercial plant with the same care as in choosing your daily bread, your dairy and market, and remember the wear and tear elements in both depend upon the performance of machinery and upon skill of the operator. As in any kind of business, equipment and organization of labor make home laundry work easy, interesting and pleasurable. The kind and amount of equipment will depend on where you live, your standards of living, climate, number in family, space, occupation, and income. An estimated cost including electric washing machine, electric ironer or mangle, electric hand iron, tubs, clothes basket, line and pins, ironing board and pad, varies from $125 to $200. It may cost less or even more if equipment is stationary. It is economy to buy quality rather than quantity so that if only a washer and hand iron can be had, make sure they are of a good type so there will be ease and little expense in operation and upkeep. Ample space in which to work, with plenty of light, heat, good ventilation, convenient hot and cold water, with adequate supply, and a satisfactory means of drying clothes, make work easy and efficient. Besides equipment, water, soap and agitation are the trio that gets clothes clean. For supplies as soap, water softener, starch, bluing, stain removers, etc., it costs from 20c to 50c per week, while utilities, as water, gas, electricity or other fuel LESSON DEPARTMENT will vary from 40c to 75c per week. And labor whether hired or your own time from 30c per hour to $1.25 per day. If water is hard, softeners are necessary but must be used carefully and in combination with soap for best results. There are several kinds, such as borax, washing soda or sal soda, sodium hydroxide or lye, and trisodium phosphate. These vary in effectiveness and cost. If used excessively they weaken the fibre of the clothes and turn them yellow. Remember, too, that softeners must be given time to react with the mineral salts in the water. After the curds have formed, skim them off before adding soap. They react better in hot than cold water. There are many types of soap on the market as the bar, flake, chips, beads, powder, all of which may contain little or much free alkali. Some also contain substances other than soap. A good quality contains little if any free alkali. Always use hot water and thoroughly dissolve soap then add cold water to make proper temperature. A good soap solution with a standing suds of at least two inches is best for proper cleaning. It penetrates the fabric and picks up the grease and soil and by means of agitation keeps it separated from other particles so that it can be floated off by the suds. If the suds dies down the dirt falls back into the fabric which results in grimy looking and streaked clothes. Soaking them too long in soapy water has the same effect. Some knowledge of textiles is necessary in order to do a good job of cleansing them. The different kinds and their characteristics have been given in previous lessons; these will determine the method of handling in washing. For the ordinary family wash which consists mainly of cotton fabrics, the following method will give clean, sweet, 253 white clothes and clear, bright colored ones. First sort, placing all of one kind together, such as table linen, bath towels, etc., and remove all stains: Soften water if necessary, and remove skum or strain out precipitate, add enough soap to make permanent standing two inch suds. Make first water luke warm. Wash five to fifteen minutes in machine, depending on kind of clothes and amount of soil. Do not overload machine. Leave room for water to swish through clothes. Wring out into second hot water prepared the same as first. It acts as a bleach. Rinse thoroughly in three waters using plenty each time to remove all particles of lint and soap. The first quite warm or hot, the second luke warm, and the third cool. Use bluing in third if desired, and rinse one piece at a time to prevent streaking. Starch if necessary, and hang in sun, when possible, to dry. Colored cotton should be treated the same way except that the second suds water needs to be cooler, and they should be dried in shade. To insure easy and quick ironing, proper hanging out and removing from line are important. All flat pieces as table cloths, sheets, towels, if placed half way over line with crease in center lengthwise and edges together, can be folded as removed, and will avoid many wrinkles which later have to be ironed out. Bath towels need no ironing. They retain more moisture if not, but if dried straight can be folded evenly and put away. All clothes are easier ironed if dampened with warm water long enough before hand to allow moisture to be evenly distributed. Sheets carefully washed, hung and dried, will require three minutes to iron on an electric ironer. Blankets and other woolen articles require luke warm water for washing and all rinsing, twice as 254 much soap as other fabrics, and very little agitation. Too hot water and rubbing of one fibre against another causes shrinkage. Dry in a little breeze to make soft and fluffy. Silks RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and synthetic fabrics require quick, gentle handling, with mild soap and good suds. Rinse thoroughly and roll in towel and iron while damp with medium hot iron.
Literature (For Third Week in June) Lesson IX
JULIA WARD HOWE
DURING the period of adjustment after her marriage Mrs. Howe's daughters say of her that: "Humanity, her husband's faithful taskmistress, had not yet set her to work, and the long hours of his service left her lonely, and the babies once in bed—at a loss." No one would have guessed in the latter part of Julia Ward Howe's life that such a thing was ever true; for her life became a symbol for practically all the great public movements involving women as well as many that involved both men and women. She had turned to public work after the death of "little Sammy." Then there came changes in the home that were sudden. The Howe home was one of intense activity. Mrs. Howe always played for her children to dance except on rare occasions when they had an orchestra in the home. She loved parties. Her husband once said that were she cast off on an island with none other than a colored servant she would find occasion for a party. Three of her daughters were married within a few months of each other, and the son married somewhere near the same time; so that her youngest daughter Maud was the only child left at home. Dr. Howe's health had begun to fail; "instead of lecture or concert came the ever-shortening walk with the Doctor," and evening games, "which lightened a little his burden of pain and weariness. Yet she was preparing on January 4, 1876, to keep a lecture engagement of long standing, when the blow fell. He was stricken down, and lay for some days insensible, waiting the final summons." "There was no hope of his recovery; those around him waited patiently, any violence of grief held in check by the silent rebuke of the serene face on the pillow." The day after his death she wrote in her journal: "Before breakfast went into Chev's room, so sweet and peaceful... I laid my lace veil, my bridal veil, upon the head of his bedstead... In place of my dear husband I have now my foolish papers. Yet I have often left him for them. God accept the poor endeavor of my life!" After the memorial meeting in his honor she writes: "Yesterday seems to have filled the measure of the past. Today I must forward in the paths of the future! How shall I deserve ever to see him again?" She had the pleasure of writing his biography soon after his death, It was in a condensed form so that LESSON DEPARTMENT it could be put in Braille for the blind. _ A final word before we leave this union of two great and highly gifted people. They had spent a season at Green Peace with their grandchildren just before Dr. Howe's illness settled upon him. They had much joy with their grandchildren in and about Green Peace just as they had had with their children before. "It was a changed world without that great and dominant personality. She missed the strength on which she had leaned for so many years." Looking back over her long life she is seen in three aspects: "those of * the student, the artist, and the reformer. First came youth with its ardent study; then maturity, with its output of poems, plays, essays. So far she had followed the natural course of creative minds, which must absorb and assimilate in order that they may give out. It is in the third phase that we find the aspect of her later life, a clear vision of the needs of humanity, and a profound hospitality which made it imperative for her to give with both hands not only what she had inherited, but what she had earned." "THE first public cause espoused by her was that of peace. "Study no longer sufficed; the need of serving humanity actively, hand and foot, pen and voice, was now urgent." Why she asked, "do not the mothers of mankind interfere in these matters, to prevent the waste of that human life of which they alone bear and know the cost?... The august dignity of motherhood and its terrible responsibilities now appeared to me in a new aspect, and I could think of no better way of expressing my sense of these than that of sending forth an appeal to 255 womanhood throughout the world, which I then and there composed." The appeal bears the date of September, 1870. Mrs. Howe was then fifty-one years of age. On her fifty-second birthday she wrote: "The great joy of the Peace Idea has unfolded itself to me." It had given her great joy to work for it. Forty years more stretched before her crowded to the very brim with work for others. In the spring of 1872 she went to England, hoping to hold a Woman's Peace Congress in London. In London she had "the privilege" of attending a "great Prison Reform" meeting. "In 1843 Julia the bride would not have considered it a privilege to attend a meeting for prison reform. She would have shrugged her shoulders, would perhaps have pouted because the Chevalier cared more for these things than for the opera... Now, she stood in the place that failing health forbade him to fill, with a depth of interest, an earnestness of purpose, equal to his own. She, too, now heard the sorrowful sighing of the prisoners." In 1876 there was a great peace meeting in Philadelphia. "There were delegates from France, Italy, and Germany, each with a burning desire to be heard, and all worth hearing, but none able to speak English. There was a call for Mrs. Howe. The German, Frenchman, and Italian stood in turn by her side. At the proper moment she lifted a finger, and then gave in her perfect English each speech in full to the delight of the delegates and the admiration of all. Her presence, it is said, turned a meeting from a threatened failure to a noble success." Her work for peace ended only with her life. Two years after her death the last celebration of her Mother's Day, for that is what she 256 liked to call these meetings, "was held in Riverton, New Jersey, on June 1, 1912, by the Pennsylvania Peace Society in conjunction with the Universal Peace Union. On the printed invitation to this festival we read: 'Aid it, paper, aid it, pen, Aid it, hearts of earnest men. —Julia Ward Howe, 1874, And further on, 'Thirty-nine years ago Julia Ward Howe instituted this festival for peace—A time for the women and children to come together, and pray and work' for those things that make for peace." Then, too, the Association for the Advancement of Women was near and dear to her. It finally resolved itself into the General Federation of Women's Clubs. In its first form she had been its president for twenty-five years. She always planned to attend the yearly as well as the Biennial Meeting. Late in her life we find her rushing by automobile from the Biennial Meeting to Newport where a reception was being held for some delegates on their way home. She worked with full strength for the admission of women to the colleges. There was much opposition. "Still the patient hands knocked, the earnest voice called; till at length —being friends as well as foes inside—slowly with much creaking and many forebodings, the great doors opened; a crack, then a space, till today they swing wide, and the Higher Education of Women now stands firm as the Pyramids." She attended her first Suffrage meeting almost by accident. She was sauntering about in "Horticultural Hall in a rainy-day-suit'"" when she received an urgent invitation to join the workers on the platform, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Thomas Wentworth Higginson, James Freeman Clarke. She knew them, "they were her husband's old companions-in-arms." She felt she belonged with them. The New England Woman Suffrage Association was organized, and she became its first president. This office she held with some few interruptions through life. She often said she was glad she joined the suffrage movement because it brought her into such high company. ER last service to the cause of woman suffrage was to send a circular letter to all the editors and to all the ministers of four leading denominations in the four oldest suffrage States, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, and Idaho, asking whether equal suffrage worked well or ill. She received 624 answers, 62 not favorable, 46 in doubt, and 516 in favor. A letter from her to the London Times, stating these results, appeared on the same day that the news of her death was cabled to Europe. A noble mother of a noble family her children joined and supported her in her active life. "Each child had its special room," say her daughters, in their mother's life, "though no door was locked to any." In all things pertaining to philosophy, Julia was her special intimate; for help and sympathy in suffrage and club doings, she turned naturally to Florence, an ardent worker in these fields; with Harry she would especially enjoy music; with Laura she would talk of books; while Maud was the 'Prime Minister' in social and household matters. There was another whose companionship she prized greatly, who was part of her household at one time. LESSON DEPARTMENT This was her nephew, Francis Marion Crawford, the American novelist. She first met him in Rome at the age of twenty-three when she says he was "extremely handsome." Also she says, "he was the most genial and companionable of men. To this, may I add, agreeing entirely with Mrs. Howe, the best conversationalist I have ever met. 'In 1882 Crawford lived with his aunt at 241 Beacon Street, Boston. They were most companionable and happy together.'"' He sang and his aunt accompanied him. But he did more than sing, for while a member of the Howe household he wrote his first three novels, Mr. Isaacs, Dr. Claudius, and A Roman Singer. Much of Mrs. Howe's time was consumed meeting distinguished people from any part of the world. If we had them all in line, the people who came to breakfast or invited her to breakfast, the people with whom she lunched, met at dinners, receptions, it would make a pageant of no mean length. Once a Persian Prince appeared saying he had come to the United States chiefly to see the President and Mrs. Howe. After making record in her journal of a luncheon with Mrs. Humphry Ward. She says: "A delightful call from Mrs. Humphrey Ward. We had much talk of persons admired in England and America." On another occasion we read: "Mrs. Abel Lefranc, the French lecturer of the year at Harvard, came to lunch with her. He apologized for only being able to stay for the luncheon hour,' because of pressing business. 'He stayed for two hours and a half after luncheon was over. She was entirely at home in French, and the Frenchman talked over the problems of his country as if to a compatriot." She had, too, her ministerial 257 association, an organization of women ordained to the ministry. Julia Ward Howe often filled a pulpit. Also her Boston Authors' Club. One after another these friends of hers went before her into the new life. She wrote for and spoke at their memorial services. Then their Centenaries overtook her: Longfellow, Whittier, Holmes, Dr. Howe; she wrote a poem for each in turn. Her birthdays! Her seventieth, eightieth, and ninetieth were celebrated in appropriate manner and many in between. There were flowers from many sources and many expressions of appreciation; for not only was she remembered by those who loved and honored her but by those who honored and loved her husband. On her eighty-sixth birthday they had a festival modelled on the Welsh Ejistedfodd. The poets came with tributes in verse. Robert Grant wrote: "If man could change the universe By force of epigrams in verse, He'd smash some idols, I allow. But who would alter Mrs. Howe?" HE wrote frequently for magazines. From many angles hers was a teeming life. Shortly before her death she was asked to write an "article on the three greatest persons she had known. She wrote of Ralph Waldo Emerson, Theodore Parker, and her own beloved "Chev," Dr. Samuel G. Howe. In the autumn of 1909 she was elected a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and in December she wrote a poem called The Capitol, which she wanted to read at its first meeting. Her daughter Maud felt it unwise for her to attempt the trip to Washington, but finally agreed to accompany her. Its officers, William Dean Howells, 258 Robert Underwood Johnson, and Thomas Nelson Page telegraphed begging her not to run the risk of the journey. "Ha!" she flashed out, "They think I am too old, but there's a little ginger left in the old blue jar!" In March she was ailing. "Dr. Langmaid came, pronounced her lungs sound as a brass drum. Thereupon she wrote a poem for the centenary of James Freeman Clarke." Just before her ninety-first birthday which was shortly before her death the question of pure milk was before the Massachusetts Legislature, and was being hotly argued. A message by telephone urged Mrs. Howe to say a word for the good cause. The hearing was in progress. She asked for a half hour to prepare; but before the time was over her speech was sketched and she dressed "'in her best flowered silk cloak and her new lilac hood, a birthday gift from a poor seamstress." She sat through many speeches; finally she was called to speak. It was noticed no oath was required of her. "You may remain seated, Mrs. Howe," said the chairman. "I prefer to stand," she replied. "We have heard," said she, "a good deal about the farmers' and the dealers' side of this case... There is one deeply interested in this matter from whom we have not heard. I am here to speak for him: the infant!" "The effect was electrical. In a silence charged with deepest feeling all listened as to a prophetess, as step by step she unfolded the case of the infant as against farmers and dealers." "As Arthur Delion Hill, counsel for the Pure Milk Association, led her from the room, he said, 'Mrs. Howe, you have saved the day!'" May brought the ninety-first RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE birthday. She was deluged with flowers and messages. Early in June she was preparing to go to Oak Glen where she usually spent the summer with her daughter Florence. She had a fall and broke a rib. Then came October. She was to receive the degree of Doctor of Laws from Smith College. She had already two such degrees, one from Tufts College and one from Brown University, her husband's alma mater. Wednesday, October 5, 1909, was a perfect day. "She was early dressed in her white dress, with the college gown of rich black silk over it, the 'mortar-board' covering in like manner her white lace cap. Thus arrayed, a wheeled chair conveyed her to the great hall, already packed with visitors and graduates, as was the deep platform with college officials and guests of honor. Opposite the platform, as if hung in air, a curving gallery was filled with white clad girls, some two thousand of them, as she entered the room they rose like a flock of doves, and with them the whole audience. They rose once more when her name was called, last in the list of those honored with degrees; and as she came forward, the organ peeled, and the great chorus of fresh young voices broke out with 'Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord—' Later in the day the students of Chapin House brought their guest book, begging for her autograph. HE had heard the Battle Hymn played and sung on many occasions under many different circumstances, but the last time it came from the heart and voices of the young college girls whose cause she had fought so valiantly many years LESSON DEPARTMENT before. On October 17, 1910, she passed to her reward. Bronchitis followed by pneumonia had done its work. "Those who were present at her funeral will not forget it. The flower-decked church, the mourning multitude, the white coffin borne high on the shoulders of eight stalwart grandsons, the words of agelong wisdom and beauty gathered into a parting tribute, the bugle sounding taps as she passed out in her last earthly triumph, the blind children singing round the grave, on which the autumn sun shone with final golden greeting." Questions 1. Name some public questions in which Julia Ward Howe was interested. How did she manifest that interest? 2. How do you think Mrs, Howe would react to the "wars and rumors of wars" of our time? Is it possible that she would be somewhat disappointed at the turn of things? If so, why? 3. Which activity caused her to send statistics from a group of Western States to the London Times? Relate the circumstances. 4. It was Daniel Defoe, the author of Robinson Crusoe, who revealed the value of concrete particulars in writing fiction. This technique borrowed from the novel is made much use of in the literary biography. Note the details in describing Mrs. Howe's costume when 259 she went before the Massachusetts Legislature to plead for "pure milk." 5. The ordinary way of reporting in relation to a degree is to say: that the degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on the candidate; in contrast to such a statement note the picture drawn of the activities at Smith College when Mrs. Howe received the doctorate at their hands. We may expect numerous instances of portraiture in a literary biography. The life of Mrs. Howe has many pen portraits of friends and sometimes as in the case of the degree at Smith of events. In these portraits note the number of carefully selected details that are made use of, 6. We expect felicity of expression in a literary biography. A few examples of unusual and expressive words and phrases are included from the biography. She speaks of the "tear and trot" of her Boston life. Again in discussing a speaker she wrote: 'He insisted upon Mr. Emerson's having been an evolutionist, and unfolded a good deal of his own table cloth along with the mortuary napkin." Again: "I think I am eminent for undertaking ten times more than I can do, and doing about one-tenth of it.' And again: "I must write you at once or my silence will expand into a broad ocean which I shall be afraid to cross." Note: You will find additional material in Julia Ward Howe, by Laura E. Richards and Maud Howe Elliott. Social Service (For Fourth Week in June) Lesson VIII ADVANTAGES OF Group LIFE Text: "Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity! "Tt is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron's beard; that went down to the. Skirts of his garments; "As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion; for there the Lord commanded the blessing, even life for evermore." HIS is the 133rd psalm—one | of the songs of David. The lines have been quoted to show the strength and the blessings that may be derived from group life. The psalm is strengthened by the reference to Aaron, the founder of the great Aaronic Priesthood. It suggests that grace and pleasure, the blessings of the Lord, and even life for evermore are all to be derived from group life. The Latter-day Saint Church is organized for constructive strength in group life. It is based upon the hope of goodness in unity. The strength of the mob spirit is the power that it wields over human life and its institutions. This power may be dedicated to a worthy spirit or to a destructive one. Mob strength may be heroic, or it may be beastly. But in either case its power is beyond question. The text deals with the inherent dangers in mob psychology, such as its instability, credulity, unmoral nature regardless of the moral or unmoral nature of Civic Sociology by Edward A. Ross, Chapter XIX. Those who compose it because of its lack of responsibility in and of itself. Because collective action is capable of rising to as great heights as it is of sinking to unpleasant depths, this lesson will be devoted to the strength of organized groups, and to the great capacity for good that lies in organizations which are properly directed. It will be well to study the text to get an understanding of the nature of crowds, mobs and groups. And the distinctions between them, but the thoughts presented here will be in relation to the opposite aspect from that presented by the text. Some types of association help one to develop socially desirable actions while others do not. They have quite the opposite effect. Each individual should seek to cultivate that form of association in group life which will contribute to a finer personal life, and to which he will, in turn, devote something of his best self. A knowledge of group life, of its capacities and limitations for both good and evil is essential to wholesome conduct. The present lesson will emphasize the finer aspects of group life by developing the following points: 1. To show the advantages of group life. 2. To encourage intelligent participation in group life. Collective behavior is one aspect of society which cannot be ignored in any consideration of social science. It is as old as the race itself. The first family was no sooner founded than groups were formed. LESSON DEPARTMENT Roughly speaking, we refer to the crowd as the casual gathering of people for any purpose whatsoever which brings individuals together. The mob is an excited crowd bent upon some definite object. Its purpose may be for good or evil, but it is transitory, and it lacks considered thought. It is a highly emotional gathering without intelligent direction. It may be extremely destructive and leave a permanent scar upon society as the result of its unpremeditated action. But even when its enthusiasm is dedicated to some high ideal it can create nothing of a constructive nature. Lasting good comes only through the channels of deliberate thought and wise control. But a group is a body of people that may be organized for some specific purpose which can be very useful in serving a high ideal. No normal individual can live without the association of his fellowmen. We are creatures of association, and we respond to the influences which surround us. Some types of group life bind people together into permanently desirable relationships, while others are temporary in their influence. Others produce undesirable reactions. To develop those forms of group life which promote socially desirable life and to shun that form which has a tendency to develop unsocial and even detrimental reactions to life situations is a problem which each individual is constantly facing. ROUP life is more than the sum total of the lives of the individuals who compose the group. The fact of association produces an influence which is quite distinct from that of the natures of those who form the group. - It gives rise to qualitative characteristics that are the outgrowth of the combined group 261 action and group spirit. The peculiar psychology which permeates the mob spirit leads to behavior which no individual in the group would dare to indulge by himself. Mob action is the result of group spirit that arises from some uncalculated impulse. Knowledge of the symptoms and probable course of mob action enables one to avoid being carried away by the lawless spirit. It is extremely important that one should understand how to curb the crowd spirit when its existence is manifested for an unwholesome reason. Knowledge of the everyday forms of association in which all people participate is also of great importance. Groups are held together by having common interests, aims, and accordant activities. The more bonds there are to unite people the more lasting the association is apt to be. But, if a single bond, such as the religious, is of enough importance it can unite people of widely divergent interest and contrasting stations in life. For instance, when a Latterday Saint of high standing in the Church or eminent position in life meets in a religious capacity with a man or woman whose worldly position is of the humblest order, there should be a deep feeling of common worship and understanding between them. But it is necessary that people should be conscious of the similarity of interests in their group life so that the mental phase of their association harmonizes with their outward acts. The more numerous and the more personal the bonds which bind people together the more lasting their association is apt to be. When people consciously and of their own volition develop a bond of common action and sympathy their association is likely to endure as long as the binding elements exist. 262 Perhaps the family illustrates the effect that united interests exert as cohesive influences better than any other single phase of group life. In its normal state the family has so many elements in common, that the unity of action within its bonds is very nearly complete. The individual members of the family are usually conscious of their common interests. However, as the thoughts and actions which the family have in common become fewer the members gradually drift into different channels, and the unity of the family is consequently weakened. But the common biological ancestry of the family is an exceedingly strong bond which generally holds the members together when consciousness of all other ties has gone. If social groups could develop as many ties of lasting significance, the unity of such groups would probably be as great as those of the family. Naturally, there should be some discrimination brought to bear upon the group in weighing the importance of striving for such ties. But where they are considered wholesome and worth the effort personal differences should give way to broader outlook, and cementing bonds should be encouraged. In some communities there is a strong group spirit of interest and loyalty. Common forces such as work, communication, cooperation in mutual enterprises, and welfare interests act to bind the group members together. On the other hand it is possible to find localities which seem to lack the spirit of unity and cohesion, and as a result no local sentiment seems to exist, and the community suffers from lack of enthusiasm and the benefit of combined action. IN cities where there are several wards of the L. D. S. Church, it is possible at times to observe one RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ward with much unified and local spirit which is entirely lacking in a neighboring organization. A careful analysis of the situation will most likely reveal threads of life and common interests running through the organization which is imbued with group loyalty. The more numerous and enduring these threads become the more permanent will be the cooperative spirit. The results may be likened to an ordinary automobile tire. In its manufacture, upwards of thirty thousand individual cotton cords are brought together with a rubber coating. Any single cord or group of cords would be immediately destroyed by the strenuous work to which they are put, but when they are bound together in the rubber matrix so that all of the cords act as one they have greater durability on the road than a steel tire of equal weight. The cooperation of the individual strands produces a flexibility and a durability which is as nearly indestructible as the ingenuity of man can make. And thus can group action multiply the strength and power of individual effort. The intelligent participation in group life is a social goal worthy of cultivation. Those groups whose objectives and patterns of life lead to more wholesome living should be fostered. This is of particular significance in relation to the welfare of the Latter-day Saint Church. The loyalty, perseverance, and the unconquerable faith of the early Saints was due to the common goals and ideals of life which the Gospel engendered These qualities supported the pioneers in their long trek across the plains to their home in the mountains. But where the bonds of common fellowship and religion have become weakened the unity in the faith has diminished If group life is to be a factor for LESSON DEPARTMENT good, it necessitates great and fine leadership. But the quality for splendid leadership in the Latter-day Saint Church has been so effectively demonstrated for good that it has excited notable comment by openminded people throughout the world. Since the leaders in this Church are chosen from the ranks of its members, it behooves each member to prepare himself for leadership and intelligent group participation. The Church has been organized on a basis that offers tremendous educational and cultural advantages as well as the opportunity for profound spiritual and religious growth. Consequently, the Mormon way of life not only gives, it asks that many shall serve. And the vitality of group life in the Church depends upon intelligent participation in the group and conscientious preparation for whatever position of leadership one may be asked to fill. Important lessons for the welfare of ward organizations may be drawn from an understanding of group movements, Ward authorities should aim to develop greater and more numerous bonds of unity among members and to lessen petty jealousies and discordant influences. The Apostle Paul expressed this thought in his message to the Corinthians when he said, "Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you; but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment." (I Cor. 1:10.) The common religious inheritance and beliefs should be sufficient for unity when individuals are spending only a part of their time in Church activities. Missionaries, who devote their whole time to teaching the principles of the Gospel, are held together inseparably while so engaged. The bond is 263 unbreakable when life is patterned upon such a common ideal of devotion. But with those whose major energies are devoted to the economic struggle for existence, the religious bond may become weakened. But with such a great religious inheritance as Mormonism provides, people should seek to become united. Areas of common experiences should be sought and created to meet situations of weakened religious force because of variations in economic interests. People seek amusement —they must have leisure time activities. They naturally associate with those whose desires and experiences are similar to their own as they strive to adjust to a changing world. Sympathy, common interests, and mutual customs act like magnets to draw people together, while opposite interests, thoughtless and unkind criticism, are not conducive to close companionship. If ward authorities keep these principles in mind, many people who might otherwise be outside the immediate fold of the Church may become vitally interested. ALTHOUGH it is possible to nourish and develop our minds with religious and spiritual information by means of radio sermons, the influence of the group spirit is thus lacking, and there is no opportunity for the development of the strength and unity of thought and feeling that arises when kindred souls meet. Sermons by radio enjoyed in the quietness of the home will never be an adequate substitute for the general meetings of a religious organization conducted by the constituted authorities of the Church. Religious fervor is a group product and is contagious. Wholesome group life is enhanced by desirable forms of association. Each individual should seek to improve his own social standing and to 264 add to his own happiness by consciously striving to participate in those groups which will further his highest ideals. Activities 1. Some fraternal orders have developed a form of group loyalty which induces individual members to give mutual support even under most adverse conditions. Compare, as far as you are able, the causes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of that group loyalty with the causes of group loyalty in your own ward. 2. Compare the advantages to be gained by listening to a sermon on the radio in your home and listening to the same sermon in a regular meeting in your own ward. 3. Why is it that police officials generally attempt to control crowd and mob spirit by keeping the people on the move? Murray Laundry "MORE LEISURE HOURS FOR WOMEN" Send Us Your Blankets and Quilts Let us wash them now so they will be ready for use next Winter They are washed in "RAIN SOFT ARTESIAN WATER" PHONE—HY. 612—MURRAY 213 SUMMER SESSION 1937 June 14-July 23; Post Session July 26-August 20 Offers courses in physical and biological sciences, languages and literature, speech correction and dramatics, history and _ political science, economics, sociology and social work, education, psychology, philosophy, physical education and hygiene, art, music, typing and stenography, home economics. Daily public lectures by eminent educators. Dr. Erle F. Young, Professor Sociology and Social Work, University of Southern California, will give six weeks courses as follows: Sociology 130, The Fundamentals of Social Work Sociology 151, The Principles of Social Case Work Sociology 152, Psychiatric Aspects of Case-Work Dr. Young is an outstanding national authority on Social Work. Note also the Institute of Public Affairs June 28-July 2, inclusive. Write for bulletin, Address The President UNIVERSITY OF UTAH, Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
BINGHAM 213 AMERICAN FORK 213
For Spring Cleaning
DURING CONFERENCE—;
MACY'S WELL KNOWN
BENNETT'S STORY OF WORLD LITERATURE (regular price—$1.00) and is on sale at the greatly reduced price of—
Polishes 60c
There's one for every household need
(plus Utah Sales Tax and 15c. Postage if ordered by mail)
Look for this mark
Call In Or Write For This Excellent Offer
Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah
BENNETT GLASS & PAINT COMPANY
EDUCATION FOR CHARACTER
Character education and active spirituality are stressed at Brigham Young University all four quarters of the year. In the summer quarter such men as Dr. M. Lynn Bennion, Supervisor, L. D. S. Department of Education; Dr. Wesley P. Lloyd, specialist in character education and sociology of religion; and Dr. Henry Neumann, ethical teacher, will give courses and lectures. Other visiting instructors in various departments will be added to the splendid regular staff.
Brigham Young University
SUMMER QUARTER, 1937 First Term: June 14-July 23—Alpine Term: July 26-August 27
AUTUMN QUARTER, 1937 Registration, September 24, 25, 27—Quarter Closes, December 17
Write for Catalogue
BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Buy Utah Made Goods
Z. C. M. I. Keeps 200 EMPLOYEES Busy
Z. C. M. I. Clothing Factory keeps 200 people busy making clothing that gives you unequalled quality at a low price.
Ask your dealer for...
Crisp, bright cotton and rayon prints. Housefrocks as fresh as the blossoms of Spring.
Slax Right styled slacks for general sports wear in gabartex, nautical blue denim and playtex. Sanforized and unsanforized.
Made by Z. C. M. I. CLOTHING FACTORY
Also manufacturers of Overalls, Corduroys, Dress Pants and work clothing for men and boys. Makers of Mountaineer, Big Harvester and Giant Plainsman Overalls.
You can't see your milk produced. You can not see the various steps by which it comes from the farm to your door-step in clean, shining bottles.
You buy milk on faith. The folks at Arden Dairy are sincere, honest, conscientious. Arden Dairy has an excellent reputation. We feel keenly that it is a serious responsibility to supply you with pure milk. So Arden Milk is good milk, because it is the product of a good organization.
ARDEN DAIRY
COAL AND BE SURE YOU GET WHAT Blue Blaze pays for
BLUE BLAZE COAL CO. 1111 Walker Bank Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Its golden hours, wisely invested, will yield rich returns throughout life. The L. D. S. Business College is dedicated to the service of ambitious young men and women
Let us tell you about opportunities for vocational training at the
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City Wasatch 1812
from your subscription to THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, and other Church publications, when you preserve your magazines in permanently bound volumes.
Send your back numbers to us now!
DURING APRIL We will return them to you postpaid, attractively and durably bound in cloth, stamped in gold.
Relief Society Magazine......$1.50 Improvement Era............----- 2.00 Children's Friend...........----- 2.00 Instructor
29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah
"Pioneer Printers and Binders of the West"
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
In the springtime the farmer plows his ground in preparation for the sowing. He knows well that there will be no bounteous harvest unless he sows his seed at the right time.
You, too may sow the seeds of a rich harvest—a harvest of economic independence in your old age.
The safest way to assure a comfortable old age is through a program of planned life insurance. It enables you to build for yourself a retirement income; and all the while your dependents are well protected.
As with the farmer, there is a right time for you to sow, and that time is now —before you get any older.
Don't delay—ask your local Beneficial agent to help you plan a life insurance program in this strong company.
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BLDG., SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Vol. XXIV MAY, 1937 No. 5
Special Offer For May Only!
$3.00 FOR YOUR OLD IRON!
Trade in your old Electric Iron or sad iron on a new up-to-the-minute Electric Iron! Enjoy the new speed, automatic heat control and ironing ease that a modern lightweight Electric Iron gives you.
LOOK INTO THIS!
See Your Electrical Dealer or Utah Power & Light Co.
SAFETY of your INVESTMENT
FEDERAL SAVINGS & LOAN INSURANCE CORPORATION, Wash, DC
PLENTY OF MONEY TO LOAN AT ATTRACTIVE RATES AND LONG TERMS
Deseret Federal Savings & Loan Ass'n
Free Booklet on Request Explaining Insured Shares
Reconstruction Finance Corporation has just invested $250,000.00 in this Association
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
44 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
PEERLESS LAUNDRY
For Health and Convenience Snow White Clothes Service Above All
SALT LAKE — PROVO — OGDEN PRICE — PAYSON MANTI
DESERET MORTUARY CO.
PALACE Markets
1st South at 3rd East—17th South at 5th East South Temple at 2nd East
We Give and Redeem DAL Discount Stamps.
"We Feature" Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
1184 East 21st South Hyland 2182
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXIV MAY, 1937 No. 5
My Mother........ Alice R. Rich 265 Frontispiece—Relief Society Singing Mothers................ 266 The British Coronation............. Amy Brown Lyman 267 Nellie O. Parker......... Evelyn N. Wood 272 Lace Stockings........ Mary Ek Knowles 275 The Would-Be-Mother........ Ella J. Coulam 280 Edward P. Kimball........... Melvin C. Merrill 281 Excerpt from Radio Talk Louise Y. Robison 282 A Tribute to Edward P. Kimball Grace S. Colton 283 On The Trails of the Old Kaibab............. Elsie C. Carroll 284 Glorious Motherhood........ Agnes Just Reid 288 To President Heber J. Grant........... May Booth Talmage 290 To My Mother............ Gertrude Perry Stanton 291 The Promise.......... Blanche Sego 292 Our Inspired Leaders........... Grace C. Jacobsen 294 Little Moments of Eternity............. Lella Marler Hoggan 295 Happenings......... Annie Wells Cannon 298 A Shrine to Will Rogers........ 2 Missionary Centennial............ The First Foreign Mission..............- Mission of the Women of the Church............. Relief Society Conference........ Editorials: Illusions Reception in Honor of President Brigham Young Dr. Joseph T. Kingsbury........... Lillie T. Freeze A Mother's Opportunity......... A Wish and a Promise...........Gladys Davies Ellis 331 Motherhood........ Magdaline C. Stephens 331
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 980
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
SALE on Bed Room Suites
GRANITE FURNITURE CO. 1050 East 21st South—Sugar House
FAITH
You can't see your milk produced. You can not see the various steps by which it comes from the farm to your door-step in clean, shining bottles.
PURE AT THE SOURCE
Arden Dairy has an excellent reputation. We feel keenly that it is a serious responsibility to supply you with pure milk. So Arden Milk is good milk, because it is the product of a good organization.
ARDEN DAIRY
Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty
Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders
Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices
General Board Relief Society Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M.
Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building
FISHER'S Vitamin D BREAD
A delicious food— and good for you!
A Product of the AMERICAN LADY BAKING CO. The Big Home-Owned Bakery
Made from Beets Grown In Your Community
Highest Grade GRANULATED QUICK-DISSOLVING and POWDERED SUGARS
UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO.
Good paint is one of the best investments a home owner can make. It reduces the upkeep costs and increases the value of the property. Keep your home a place of beauty with FULLER Paint—the kind that lasts!
See Your Fuller Paint Dealer for PAINT, WALLPAPER, GLASS
W. P. FULLER & CO. Salt Lake City and Ogden, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
MY MOTHER By Alice R. Rich
My mother had no time or strength to spare For other than the duties of the day, But after hours she sowed petunia seeds To give us sweet perfume and blossoms gay.
Though evening duties call for all her time We claimed her for the story we liked best, She came and told again the fairy tales, That sent us to sweet dreams and peaceful rest.
A quiet hour I'm sure she often craved Yet all our friends were welcome in her home; Her heart reached out and every mother's child Who knew her, shared that love, not just her own.
The world would never call my mother great She wrote no verse, she sketched no pictures rare, But everyone who knew her called her friend, And memories of her linger everywhere.
Her gentle ways, her kindly helpful hand, Marked carefully the path she'd have us go. And on and on her love calls through the years Like strains of sacred music soft and low.
RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS
The Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XXIV MAY, 1937 No. 5
The British Coronation By Amy Brown Lyman
FROM the earliest time kings and queens have worn crowns as a sign and symbol of their authority. In some countries, particularly England, the crowning of the king has been regarded as a natural and necessary ceremony to be performed for each new sovereign. The English regalia and crown jewels today include a number of very interesting crowns, both old and new. The most important of these is St. Edward's crown, the one with which the king is actually crowned and which is used on no other occasion. It is known as the Crown of the Realm—the Crown of England. It was made in 1662 at the time of the Restoration and is the successor to and replica of the ancient crown of England which with the other regalia was destroyed by the commonwealth government. After the Coronation ceremony is over this crown which is very heavy, weighing nearly seven pounds, is replaced by the light but more magnificent Imperial State Crown which is worn by the king on the return procession and at the opening of Parliament. The crowning of the English king, or the Coronation, follows the accession to the throne which has previously been officially proclaimed and which is in itself already of binding force. It is the formal public recognition and ratification of the accession, and has become a ceremonial token of wider significance. Immediately upon the death of an English monarch his heir becomes his already constituted successor. For the crowning ceremony however, there is no fixed time nor date. It usually occurs after the period of mourning is over. The Coronation of King George V took place thirteen months after his accession to the throne. The date for the present Coronation was set for sixteen months after the accession of Edward VIII, and it was not changed after the Abdication of the latter and the accession of King George VI. Six months after the accession of Edward VIII the date of May 12, 1937, was announced for the Coronation and preliminary plans began to take form at once in court and government circles, and in business and social realms. These plans were interrupted at the time of Edward VIII's Abdication on December 11th, but were resumed at once after George VI's accession on December 12th.
WHILE the British Coronation is a magnificent, brilliant and elaborate ceremony, it is also a sacred religious ceremony. It is a solemn and aweful compact between an individual and a people, the individual promising to discharge his function worthily and faithfully, and the people on their side, pledging their allegiance to him in the accomplishment of their joint work. The famous Abbey of Westminster which was founded by Edward the Confessor (1042-1066) is the setting for this great and important event. William the Conqueror was the first king to be crowned in the Abbey and since his time all coronations have taken place within its time hallowed walls. The complete coronation includes
WESTMINSTER ABBEY, ST. MARGARET'S AND BIG BEN RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the procession to and from the Abbey and the ceremony within the Abbey. Briefly the coronation ceremony proper consists of the Recognition, or presentation of the king; the taking of the oath; the anointing of the king on the palms of the hands, the breast and the head, with hallowed oil; the investure of the Royal Robe with the orb, sceptre and ring (the wedding ring of England); and the placing of the Crown upon his head by the Archbishop of Canterbury, as the people shout "GOD SAVE THE KING". The peers then put on their coronets and the bishops their caps, the trumpets sound and by a signal given the great guns of the Tower commence to fire. Then, enthroned in the ancient coronation chair, the king receives the homage of leading representatives of the various ranks, in succession. The crowning of the Queen next takes place. She proceeds to the altar attended by her train bearers. She is anointed on the head, receives the consort's ring and the crown is placed upon her head by the Archbishop of Canterbury. As her crown is placed the princesses and peeresses put on their coronets and there is a glittering of jewels such as one never sees in any other ceremony. The Queen is now invested with her robes and regalia, and when their Majesties have partaken of the sacrament the ceremony is over. The King then exchanges the Crown of St. Edward for the Imperial Crown, and the Royal Robe of State for his robe of purple velvet. There then remains the great procession from the Abbey to the Palace, Included in the ceremony are anthems, prayers, scripture reading and a sermon by the Archbishop of Canterbury. It is a tense moment when the king takes the oath. Kneeling be-
THE BRITISH CORONATION
fore the altar he swears to maintain the statutes, laws and customs of the realm, to use justice and mercy in all his judgments, and to maintain the laws of God and the Protestant religion. In olden times the Coronation service lasted three days and nights but in the last two or three centuries it has been greatly shortened and revised, although no fundamental change has been made for eleven centuries. For the present Coronation the Archbishop of Canterbury has fixed the actual service to cover only two and one-fourth hours. The people will start arriving at 6 a. m. and are expected to be in their seats by 9 a.m. A luncheon will be supplied in the Abbey.
WHAT a splendid spectacle a Coronation is! The rich old Abbey is thronged with peers and peeresses in their robes of state, and with royal and other guests; and "all down the immense vista of arches there is one blaze of scarlet and gold." In addition to the dignity, grandeur and solemnity of the occasion there is also a joyous aspect in which the populace may join. The streets are profusely decorated, bells peal, cannons boom, banners wave and crowds in gay colors throng the streets and with joy and excitement shout, God Save the King. Miles of Coronation seats which line the route of the procession are filled with people who sit for hours to witness the great pageant, good naturedly eating their meals which are included in the price of the seats. For the ceremony on May 12th Westminster Abbey has been thoroughly renovated, newly furnished, seated and carpeted, richly and gorgeously decorated in crimson, gold and blue colors. It will no doubt
be thronged with the most representative gathering of national life that it is possible to imagine: Royalty; church and state; lords and commons, the judiciary; army and navy; foreign representatives and other special guests. There will be people from every part of the British Dominions beyond the seas; from the frozen waters of the St. Lawrence, the Rocky Mountains, the Indian jungles and the islands of the sea—all desirous of showing their loyalty and devotion to Empire and Crown, and to the King himself. The Queen mother has announced her intention of witnessing the crowning of her son, which is a departure from the precedent set by Queen Alexandria. A specially decorated box in blue and gold will be provided for her and her personal attendants. The two little daughters of the King will also attend the ceremony— Princess Elizabeth, the eleven-year-old heir apparent, and Margaret Rose.. The procession from the Abbey to the Palace will, it is expected, be a most gorgeous and magnificent pageant, surpassing all previous ones. It will be two miles long and will cover six miles en route. It will include the King and Queen; Queen Mary; the royal family (the princes and princesses of royal blood); visiting royalty, including the picturesque Indian princes in their colorful robes and glittering jewels; ecclesiastical dignitaries, governmental representatives; officers of state, foreign representatives and their attendants; special guests; military escorts, overseas troops, etc. There will be included representatives of every race.
THE King and Queen will ride in the Royal glass coach of state which will be placed near the end
KING GEORGE VI, QUEEN ELIZABETH, PRINCESS ELIZABETH AND PRINCESS MARGARET ROSE
of the procession. It was built in the year 1762, but has been entirely regilded and redecorated. It will be drawn by eight bay horses with crimson harness decorated with crimson ribbon and gilt coats of arms. These horses were selected on the basis of appearance, health, good behavior in crowds, and indifference to noises. For months they have been drawing vans and equipages through the streets of London in preparation for their part in the great procession. More than fifty miles of London streets will be decorated; the decorations to exceed in extent and magnificence anything ever before attempted. The main colors are to be red, white and blue with numerous new shades and tints. London is preparing for thou-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
sands of visitors. Arrangements have been made to seat 7,700 in the Abbey and 85,000 in reserved seats along the route of the procession, with reserved standing places for 30,000 more. The seats have all been thoroughly tested for strength. The Queen's Coronation gown will be white or ivory satin heavily embroidered in gold, and her robe and train will be purple velvet embroidered in gold and trimmed with ermine. A new crown has been made especially for her. The jewels which consist of diamonds only, will be set in platinum. The King's Imperial Crown is a blaze of jewels containing 2,783 diamonds, 227 pearls, 17 sapphires, 11 emeralds and 5 rubies. Golden lame has been chosen by Queen Mary for her gown. It will be elaborately decorated with lovely embroidery. The Princesses Elizabeth, and Margaret Rose will be dressed in white and wear purple robes.: The Earl Marshall has decreed that only white and cream dresses may be worn by the ladies aside from the gold and silver for peeresses' robes. The Coronation court gowns will be fashioned after the formal evening dress with the addition of a train. For months women in court and official circles have been preparing their elaborate wardrobes for the great events. Old jewels have been reset and new ones purchased. Dress makers, milliners and jewelers have surely profited by their expenditures. Nor is the finery confined to women. Men, including royalty, nobility, ecclesiastics, government officials, army and navy officers, etc., will indeed compete with the opposite sex in the color brilliancy and gorgeousness of their dress and adornment. An outstanding exception will be
THE BRITISH CORONATION
the American Ambassador, who will wear plain evening clothes, and who will probably be the only one thus attired.
MANY social functions will follow the Coronation and extend over the whole summer. The festivities will begin May 5 and continue until July 22. They will include banquets, garden parties, military and air force revues, receptions, concerts, balls, theaters and grand opera. The official program includes court presentations, state banquets, palace garden parties and two court balls at Buckingham Palace on May 14 and 26, with 1,500 guests at each, making a total of 3,000 guests who will attend the two events. At the first there will be a great gathering of princes and princesses, politicians of almost every nation with their wives, the diplomatic corps and other specially invited guests. Each ball will last two and one-half hours— from 10 to 12:30. On each occasion the King will start the dance with a lady guest, the Queen will come next with her partner. King George is the youngest British monarch to ascend the throne since the time of Queen Victoria. Among his attendants and associates
and those of the Queen will be found a large number of young men and women and debutants. The Queen has chosen as her four canopy holders and her six train bearers young peeresses ranging in age from 17 to 22 years. Both the King and Queen are fond of dancing, a fact that will make their parties, balls, and other social functions the gayest of the century. In honor of the Coronation many gracious offerings and courtesies are being extended. As a good will gesture the Government is allowing a Coronation grant to the unemployed —an extra payment of half crown and a shilling for each child. To show his interest. In the industrial areas King George has sent personal invitations to four working people—two men and two women—to attend the Coronation Service in Westminster Abbey. One of the men is a tin plate polisher and the other a coal miner. One woman is an employee of the General Electric Co., and the other a carpet weaver. The latter in expressing her joy said, "Little did I think when I was weaving the gold carpet for the Coronation that I would be present for the historic event, and see it in the Abbey."
NOW AND THEN By May H. Marsh
Brave little mother with three little boys, One right after the other, Grant and Billy are mere babies yet, And now, a new little brother.
But after their baby years have all passed, And one right after the other, They grow into handsome and manly men, Oh! What a proud little mother!
Nellie O. Parker By Evelyn N. Wood
NELLIE O. PARKER comes to the General Board with the best wishes and love of all who know her. When such women are called to this high office, it is not hard to see the workings of the Spirit of Inspiration in the selection of our leaders. She comes well prepared; schooled in spirit and mind, even as a rose full blown in a shady glen gives willingly of its perfume and beauty, gathered from a life time of purposeful living. But even as with the rose, there has been a time of preparation, a gathering of the opportunities around, to mellow her judgment and soften her heart. Born into a home
NELLIE O. PARKER
where individual effort counted much, she was early taught the values of life by a frugal mother. Two quotations remained in her memory from early childhood: "Remember, life is just about what you make it," and "Where there is a will, there is a way." These stood out as beacons, lighting each avenue whereon she must travel. But this was only part of her training. Her father was an exact complement to her mother and of a highly spiritual nature. Nellie, as a composite picture of both of them was able to put order in her days, sweep out the clutter, and keep her mind and body strong and clean in order to reach her goal. They gave her a passion for accuracy, but not at the expense of beauty. She possesses a sensitive awareness of the motives and feelings of people, so that with the least effort, she is able to get the best from her associates.
SHE had been taught that the purpose of every Latter-day Saint life is to give willingly of her time and talents to the Church. With a conviction that the Spirit of the Lord can make even the ordinary man, extraordinary, she resolved to take advantage of this leadership training. At the age of thirteen she was called to be secretary of the Primary, and later a teacher. Then the Gleaner class was a real thrill to her, and later as President of the Mutual, she received a fine training in the viewpoint of young people.
SISTER PARKER was graduated from the Brigham Young University, and taught in the Provo schools for four years before she
NELLIE O.
Joined Brother Parker, then a struggling young man with an ambition for law. During their stay at the University of Michigan, she was able to further satisfy her hunger for knowledge, by taking courses along with her husband.
HER first introduction to Relief Society Board work came when she was asked to be assistant secretary on Sister Keeler's board of Utah Stake. She had previously taught the Literary lessons in the ward in those intervals between five babies. When her husband was appointed Attorney General for the State of Utah, they left Provo to make their home in Salt Lake City.
BESIDES her work in the Church, Sister Parker has been very active in social organizations. A natural-born executive, she has been president of the Nelke Reading Club, Sorossus, Delphian, and president of the Uintah Parent Teacher's Association. Under her leadership the first Summer School in the Uintah School District was organized.
IN THE spring of 1929, just a few months after she had come to Salt Lake, Sister Emmeretta Brown called Sister Parker to the Granite Stake Board as the Literary teacher. Then when Sister Latimer was taken as the counselor, Nellie was asked to take her place as the Social Service Leader, and when Sister Latimer was made the new president, she asked Sister Parker to be her counselor. But events were happening fast; a new Stake, Highland Stake, was to be created, and she was to become its first Stake President. Under this new position she grew and developed easily and graciously. Her Board was efficient, each one doing her best, not because she was driven, but when in her presence it was just naturally ex-
PARKER
pected that each give her all; she was the sort of person to whom one willingly gave allegiance. She believed that while Relief Society must take care of the physical needs of the people in the Church, that it must also offer cultural training for women. She therefore sought to encourage every advantage for the educational guidance of mothers. In accordance with this spirit, Ward libraries were encouraged. Each woman was urged to contribute a good book. The Stake also collected a library, which was at the disposal of any Ward at its request. Some of the Wards were able to collect as many as 150 books in one year.
BUT the practical side of her must also have its turn, and she conducted a demonstration of the uses of made-over clothing, All the women were encouraged to make something useful and good looking, from something used, and all of these were placed on display at the Stake House. Those who love her have memories that stand out on the horizon of her leadership, memories of situations that could have caused feelings and friction. Odd little occasions that no one could have anticipated were thrust upon her. There would be a tense moment, as all waited, with faces turned toward her. Then somehow her arms would go around two people, a nice comment would be made about the integrity of both. All was running smoothly again, before many knew that a crisis had been passed. Her oil of human kindness and understanding soothed many troubled waters before even those waters knew that a storm had been nigh.
IN the Spring and Summer, troubles began to arise at home. Her husband needed more of her
time. For just a moment she was confused. Then with that clear vision that she possessed, her mind was made up. There must be no room for regrets. The promise that she had made to herself on her wedding day, that nothing should ever come before home and family stood out in her mind. She was constant in her devotion and so courageous throughout his long sickness. No sacrifice was too great if it was for her home or her family. She was just beginning. There were so many wonderful things that she could see to be done. She had been given only one year to accomplish all that her heart told her she could do. But it was not hard for Sister Parker to give it up, and never would she consider it a sacrifice. Hers was the happy faculty of being able to adjust to any condition and finding a way to be happy in it. Her resignation was sent in to President Ashton and accepted. That one never loses out by doing the thing
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
that is right, has always been one of her firm convictions. Whether she was conducting the affairs of her home, presiding at a Board Meeting, or standing by the side of her husband, she was master of the situation, doing the task ahead with a sweet dignity and poise that was remarkable. Quiet, unassuming and rather shy she has never pushed herself forward, but has been called to many responsible positions. She has never sought greatness, but greatness has come to her. As she has served, each one of her experiences had enriched her background and understanding. She comes to the General Board well seasoned in wisdom and vision, and with a humility that reassures her heart that the Lord never asks us to do anything, but what He spreads a mantle of inspiration around us, that we may be able to accomplish the task He requires of us.
MRS. SARAH ALLRED AND HER SEVEN LIVING DAUGHTERS
Lace Stockings By Mary Ek Knowles
ELLEN was rinsing the last of the week's wash when the phone rang. She turned off the washer, wiped her wet hands on a hand towel, stepped with amazing skill over blocks, toys, and a rag dog with one eye, and cautioned Denny to "be quiet while Mummy answers the phone." "Hello." It was Paul. Her heart skipped a beat, her dark eyes softened. Nice to feel that way about your husband after eleven years of married life. "Mrs. Dale," Paul's voice informed her with studied seriousness, "we're going out to a dinner at the Plaza Hotel." "A dinner dance, Paul? When?" "Tonight." "Tonight! But Paul—'" If that wasn't just like a man, "I haven't—" "Don't tell me you haven't anything to wear. Go to town. Buy something. It's going to be a big affair. See you tonight, sweetheart."
ELLEN hung up the receiver with a steady hand. Must get a wave. Hire Nora Daniels to tend Denny. She frowned at her reddened hands. Wouldn't have washed if she had known. If only there were more time. * * * Then excitement possessed her. She swooped up golden-haired Denny, hugged him tightly, sang, "Mummy's going out tonight * * * going to a dinner dance * * *" stirred the soup—the three older children would soon be home for lunch—put Denny down, and took the budget book from the cupboard. She would have to buy a dress. No hope of renovating the thrice-altered blue crepe. And shoes. And by all means, stockings. Her one and only good pair had a darn in the heel. For fifteen minutes while the little Dutch clock ticked on the wall and Denny built a leaning tower of blocks, she juggled figures on a piece of white paper, her forehead wrinkled, her dark head bent. "Fourteen dollars and sixty-five cents—no —say fifteen dollars,'—she finally announced aloud." That meant, of course, letting the doctor bill and the payment on the piano go until the first, but—Oh, if only she could buy a dress like Aunt Jasmine had worn to the Andrews last week. Couldn't pay as much, of course. Aunt Jasmine had a good paying position, alimony from her divorce, an apartment with maid service and—no children. It was with a feeling of high adventure and reckless, luxurious extravagance that Ellen began the afternoon that clear April day. It is rare indeed for the mother of four growing children to have $15.00 to spend on herself. Not that it would always be that way. Things were a little close now with Paul just starting in business for himself, but some day—well—some men had the ability to get ahead. Paul was one of them. She entered the first shop and told the stout, beaming saleswoman her need. "Dinner dress?" She piloted Ellen over deep-piled rugs to the realm of glass cases, soft lights, and long mirrors. She brought out a peach-colored taffeta dress, long and full,
with a short, demure jacket." Exquisite, isn't it? You can just step in here—" Ellen caught her breath for the sheer loveliness of the gown, but held up her hand. "I'm afraid—how much is it?" "Just $29.50. A bargain at that price, isn't it?" "Yes, but—" Ellen hesitated, feeling stupid and painfully conscious of last. Year's black felt hat and the darn in her left heel. "Haven't you something a little less—" The saleswoman lifted her arched eyebrows and sniffed audibly. "I'm afraid not. We don't carry cheap merchandise." She turned her back on Ellen with an injured, hurt air.
WHY, Sue Daniels never paid more than ten dollars for a dress, Ellen consoled herself when she was again outside. Of course Sue was smaller, easier to fit—. Suddenly Ellen laughed. That awful saleswoman. What fun she would have telling Paul about it. "* * * she looked surprised, darling, and she sniffed, just as if I'd suddenly pulled a dead fish out of mid-air and held it under her nose!" Surely, in the next shop she would find just what she wanted. Still, for all her optimism, that heady feeling of excitement was gone. She felt tired, let down. No wonder. She had had no lunch! In the last minute'rush of finishing the washing, giving Nora instructions about Denny and getting herself ready to go she had entirely neglected that little matter. She hurried down the street and into "The Red Robin." A bowl of soup, and a sandwich, they would take away that gaunt, empty feeling.
ELLEN McCARTHY." She turned suddenly at the sound of her name. Saw Marjory Adams,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Drucilla Lane, and Judy Allan at a nearby table. And suddenly the years rolled back. She was a schoolgirl again. Hurrying from classes to lunch with this same trio. She hurried towards the table, clasped slim white hands in her own, kissed Marjory on the cheek and seated herself in the empty chair. Everyone talked at once. "This is a reunion. First Marjory, then Drucilla, now Ellen." "It's been years—" "Twelve years—" "Don't remind me!" Ellen looked at the three women. They didn't look any older. The three pretty school girls had become three smartly clad, sophisticated women. That hat of Judy's—black straw, plain, but so smart, with the tiny nose veil. And Marjory. The sheer blue wool dress she wore cried Paris and Chanel in every line. As for Drucilla. No one could wear tailored things with quite the same dash as she. Ellen felt suddenly self-conscious. She straightened her hat, and hid her rough hands beneath the table. She must look like a little brown wren alongside them. The conversation turned to the subject of what each had been doing in the twelve years since they last met. -Marjory had been in Paris studying art. She clasped her long, perfectly manicured hands and told of the exhibit of her work to be held that summer in New York. Her etchings were attracting no little attention, she informed them with a proud little lilt in her voice. Drucilla asked what she thought about the future of modernistic Art, and Ellen felt herself suddenly shut out. She remained silent, trying to keep pace with their clever, brilliant talk. Judy had made a name for herself in the world of music and she had "dabbled a bit, with no little success,
LACE STOCKINGS
my dears," in the theater, under the name of Anna Tanya. The talk veered to the latest plays on Broadway. Again Ellen was on a lonely island. Drucilla was private secretary to a big steel king. "But weren't you and Larry Downes engaged to be married?" Judy asked. Drucilla laughed a short, hard laugh. "I recovered from that. He had some impossibly old-fashioned ideas about marriage, children, and love in a cottage." "Not really!" "Mid-victorian." "You'd have been a fool!" Ellen felt her skin tighten and her face flush. "And you, Ellen. What have you been doing?" someone asked. Ellen hesitated, conscious of the three pairs of eyes fixed upon her. Well, what had she been doing? What had she to relate? How to tell in so many words of the sacredness of those first months of marriage to Paul; of that miraculous feeling of being not one soul, but two, eternally bound together. Could mere words describe that ecstasy when first she had known she was to be a mother; the long months of waiting while her body grew heavy with its precious burden, and that moment when she looked upon her baby daughter, and felt in some small measure as He must have felt when He rested on the seventh day and looked down upon the world. Would they be interested in the battle she had had nursing Bud back to health after a siege of scarlet fever —Bud so husky and strong now, with his freckled face and his pride in "the" gang'—or the fact that Alice, at the age of ten, could play on the piano, by ear, any piece she might hear? She might tell them
that little Betty was at the head of her class in school, and that buttermilk, of all things, had been the only milk little Denny's system could digest from the age of two months on. But would these drab facts interest them? They had all seemed vitally important to Ellen at the time, but now they seemed uninteresting, colorless. She heard her voice, weak and faint, as if from the bottom of a deep, dark well. "Me? Why nothing, I guess. Just raising a family. I have four children, you know." There was an embarrassed pause, and then Drucilla laughed. She always had been able to laugh herself out of an embarrassing situation. Ellen left soon after, and there were friendly goodby's and fervent promises to "meet again." But Ellen knew this could never be. They belonged to a different world. As she walked away she could almost hear their comments and the undercurrent of pity in their voices. "Such a shame," they would say, "she used to be such a brilliant person. An A student in English. Such an amazing sense of humor. Remember her screamingly funny compositions?" And then they would forget her, return to their smart, sparkling talk.
ELLEN tried to recapture her. Mood of an hour before; she told herself, "Snap out of it, my dear. You've new clothes to buy yet, and a party to look forward to." But she was conscious of a dull feeling of resentment as she traveled from shop to shop hunting a dress. She found herself comparing each gown with the taffeta one and thinking "* * * this one is shoddy, cheap * * " or " * * the shade is all wrong, it makes my skin look muddy * * " and " * * $29.50 isn't a scandalous price to pay for a dress.
I'll bet Judy paid that much for her hat * * * and finally, "* * * I haven't had a decent dress since I was married * * *" In the end, spurred into action by the lateness of the hour, she chose a black rough crepe dress, long, with short puff sleeves, marked down to $9.79 from the winter season. She could remove the tawdry gold bow, wear her strand of pearls and her pearl earrings, "and look as I always do, drab, practical, a season behind,' she thought. The tall clock on the corner of Main and Broadway told her it was five o'clock. She quickened her steps. Still shoes and stockings to buy. No time, now, to get a wave. She used to wave her own hair when she was going to school. Brush it until it gleamed, then steam it with hot towels and push the wave into place. But that took time. Time! When had she a minute she could call her own, an undisturbed night of sleep? No wonder fine lines were already making their appearance in her fair skin, She passed a shoe store and feasted her eyes on a pair of fragile, golden sandals. Just what she wanted! Golden sandals and a shimmering taffeta dress. She saw the price tag $10.50 and walked away. "Marjory, or Judy could have bought them without even a glance at the price tag," she thought as she walked one flight up and bought a pair of black kid pumps with a silver metal bow. With her purchases under her arm she made her way towards the hosiery counter in Bengels Co. And then she saw them, on the end of the counter near the elevator. Lace stockings. Fragile as a spider's web. As soft in color as the first warm breath of spring. "They are just new," the salesgirl remarked at her
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
elbow. "Beautiful, aren't they?" Ellen nodded and touched them gently with a gloved hand. The price tag said, "$2.50." They would go well with a peach-colored taffeta dress and gold sandals, wouldn't they?" she asked, torturing herself. "Oh, yes. Beautifully," the clerk assured her. Suddenly, standing there at the hosiery counter with her packages under her arm, her hat crooked, and her nose shiny, Ellen wanted those stockings more than anything else in the whole world. And she had just 65 cents in her purse. "I just wanted something for everyday," she lied bitterly and bought a pair of semi-chiffon hose for 59 cents. She didn't look at the lace stockings again. Didn't have to. She would never forget them.
THEY became, as she walked home, the symbol of everything lovely she had wanted in the last eleven years and couldn't have. Lovely things she had wanted marched through her mind in tantalizing procession. A brown coat with a beaver collar; a pink knitted suit with a beret to match; a white felt picture hat with a blue band; a star sapphire ring like Aunt Jasmine's. Aunt Jasmine! Or Judy, or Drucilla, or Marjory. Catch them denying themselves anything. She, Ellen, was as intelligent as any of them. "I could have been a writer, a newspaper woman." But what had happened? She had fallen in love with Paul. Let her heart rule her head. Oh, of course, some day she would have all the lovely things she wanted. Maybe. Some day! She wanted them now, while she was young. "You should have chosen a career, Ellen McCarthy Dale," she told herself.
LACE STOCKINGS
BUD met her at the door. "Won the ball game, Mom." She saw his tousled hair, his dirty shirt, and the rip in his overalls. "Bud, you've torn your overalls again. You must think we're made of money," she almost screamed. Bud said, "Yes'm," and disappeared into the bedroom, a hurt look on his freckled face. Alice ran in from the kitchen. "Oh, mother," she reached for Ellen's packages, "let me see!" Ellen frowned down into her eager, upturned face. "Leave things alone!" Little Betty, always shy, remained in the background, her round, serious eyes on her mother's face. The phone rang. "It's Mr. Dale," Nora called. Ellen unfastened Denny's clinging hands from her skirt. "Get a dress, honey?" asked. "Oh my, yes,' she answered. "I bought a silver lame evening dress, solid gold sandals, an ermine jacket and—and lace stockings, thin as a spider's web!" She was very near to tears. There was a moment's silence, then Paul's voice came over the wire, worried, husky. '"What's the matter, honey? Didn't you have enough money?" Ellen made no reply. She couldn't Paul speak. "Maybe I can borrow ten from Mike." "No. Don't bother.' Borrow ten and be six months paying it back. "TI have to get busy." She hung up. "Shame, shame," she scolded herself. "Paul hasn't had a new suit for three years." But she didn't care. She didn't care! UST at that moment a low, creamcolored roadster drew up in front of the house and stopped. Aunt Jasmine got out of the car and came walking up the path. Aunt Jas- 279 mine in a clever, apple-green outfit, her gray hair perfectly waved. "Fashion note, for spring,' Ellen thought. "Select a bright, light weight wool dress for wear under your winter coat." She bundled her packages together, threw them in the hall closet and shut the door. "Hello, darling,' Aunt Jasmine greeted. "You look tired. Anything wrong?" Ellen made no reply, but fastened her eyes on a flat package in Aunt Jasmine's hand. Denny toddled in from the kitchen, his arms held up. '"Damin, Damin," he lisped. Jasmine threw the package carelessly, wearily on the table and reached eagerly, hungrily for Denny. "Just something I bought me as I came through town. See if you like them." She walked over to the window with Denny in her arms. Ellen unwrapped the package, and a tiny moan escaped her lips. Lace stockings! Not one pair, but three! The very stockings she had wanted. It wasn't fair! Bitterness and weariness culminated into tears, and she wept silently, one hand on the lace stockings, the other hand to her lips. It wasn't fair. Aunt Jasmine had everything! Then she looked up, saw Aunt Jasmine standing by the window, Denny in her arms, his dimpled hand on her lips, the light making a halo of his bright curls. But it was the look on Jasmine's face that checked Ellen's tears, and sent the bitterness from her heart with one clean stroke. For in that unguarded moment she saw disillusionment, futility and poignant loneliness in the other woman's face. "Oh, I've never known that," she thought, indescribable loneliness. I never will. I have my children. True, they will grow up, marry and move away. But they will return 280 for warm, cozy visits. They and their children and their children's children. Always she would have her fingertips on life's pulse. The thought came to Ellen that Aunt Jasmine was the Marjories, the Judys, the Drucillas, ten, fifteen years from now. Successful, rich, bored and lonely. The grass always looked greener on the other side of the fence. Until this moment she had seen only the attractive part of the older woman's life. The ease and comfort, the money. She had not realized that money could purchase only material things that faded and tarnished and lost their thrill the moment after purchase. Ellen's life was full, busy, soulsatisfying. Career! Why, she had chosen a career! The most important one in the world. Careers of Music, of Art, of Literature, they were all very important. They made for a rich and more abundant life, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE but first there must be people born to enjoy them. The Career of Motherhood! "It is such an age-old occupation that people take it for granted," Ellen thought, "like the miracle of the sun rising every morning, or the wonder of green sprouts pushing their way through the damp earth in the spring. We mothers are partly to blame. We take it for granted ourselves. We are apologetic about our calling. "Just raising a family," I said this afternoon, and I lowered my eyes. I should have held my head high." She would start a new vogue among mothers. Pride in their task. It was an inspiring thought. It took her firmly by the hand and lead her to the top of a lofty mountain, She carefully folded the lace stockings in the box, put the lid on and tied the string in a tight, hard knot. She was humming a happy little tune. THE WOULD-BE-MOTHER By Ella J. Coulam My heart goes out on Mother's Day To the lonely Would-Be Mother, Who smiles and tries so valiantly Her yearning hopes to smother. Would she have scolded if her little lad Made tracks on the kitchen floor? Would she have censured him When he loudly banged the door? Would she have said unkind and hurting things When he lost his cap and ties? Would she have been too tired for story-hours Or to see the love-light in his trusting eyes? Dear God help me to be as kind As that Would-Be Mother yearns to be; Help me to guide these little ones And please dear God—bless such as she. Edward P. Kimball A TRIBUTE TO EDWARD P. KIMBALL AT THE ANNUAL CONCERT OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE WASHINGTON BRANCH AT THE WASHINGTON CHAPEL, FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1937 By Melvin C. Merrill OUT OF the heart of the mountains came sweet melodies. On waves of ether were they carried far and wide by modern miracle. From a huge musical mechanism, delicately attuned, came the soulstirring strains. At the console sat a master, in a setting world-renowned and visited by hundreds of thousands from every clime. Thus did the inhabitants of earth come to know the famous organist, Edward P. Kimball. In America's Capital near the eastern shores of this beloved "land of the free" was builded a chapel, a gem of beauty. From the mountains came the stone, unbelievably attractive in sunshine and shadow; from the records of the past came the unique figure on the spire heralding a message of peace and good will to the nations. Into the interior was placed the heart of the structure, an instrument of high quality whose melodious sounds were to soothe the ears, soften the hearts, and regenerate the souls of thousands. UT who would be called upon to produce these effects? Came the thrilling announcement, "Edward P. Kimball, Senior Organist of the Salt Lake Tabernacle!' The result, a flutter of excitement in our Branch to have one so great and distinguished chosen for the appointment. Awed we were at the prospect. Then came the great one, and with him came Hazel and Marion and Ted and Don. And we found that he was human, and we opened our hearts to him and his family. His warm, colorful personality melted away our timorous trepidations and we came to love him like a brother. To us all he was soon genial Ed. Kimball. But we found him greater than we had even expected; we found him great in artistry, great in ability, great in faith, great in enthusiasm, great in companionship, great in humility, and great in service. In his work here he daily exemplified the implied suggestion that "He that would be greatest among you, let him be the servant of all." And the Relief Society, as well as all the other organizations in the Branch, can testify with grateful appreciation of his helpful service to them. INSTEAD of a single set of abilities and talents, as have many artists, we soon found that Ed had four, and we became convinced that in all the world he was the one best selection for the important position he held among us. Not only was he a capable and accomplished musician, but he was as well a fluent and entertaining speaker, a lovable and cordial mixer among his fellowmen, and an experienced, practical man of affairs particularly qualified to be the Director of this imposing building with its technical and intricate apparatus. The immaculate condition of this chapel after three and a half years of daily use bears glowing testimony to his efficient and painstaking efforts in supervising its care and upkeep. 282 LITTLE children loved him, young people loved him, and the older ones loved and admired him for his talents and abilities. Our hearts have been indeed saddened this week. The large audience that assembled here on Tuesday, that filled the choir seats and the chapel, that crowded the recreation hall, and that overflowed on to the stage, bore eloquent tribute to the love and respect that Edward P. Kimball had won among us. Not alone were members of our Church there, but others as well—fellow Rotarians and friends and admirers. And though the appeal was so sweetly sung to "Dry Those Tears," those assembled found it difficult or impossible to comply. FROM the mountains came to us this choice spirit; to the mountains its tabernacle has returned for interment. Ed, our friend and pal, has gone, and we shall see him no more in all our journeys through the rest of this life. But though he is gone he is not forgotten, nor ever will he be, as long as memory lives. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE His personality still lingers among us—his smile, his joviality, his enthusiasm, his lively ways. And from | every room in this well-kept building and from the beautiful grounds without its colorful walls comes to us his cheery voice. MY FRIENDS, his message to us tonight is, carry on, do your best, go forward. He would have this program conducted as though nothing tragic had just happened. Therefore, let the strains of sweet music resound, from both voice and instrument. Magic refrains will arise out of the depths of our emotions as we this night appreciate the excellent performance rendered for our entertainment. And as we derive spiritual benefit from the renditions we shall also receive ennoblement of soul as we recall our associations with Edward P. Kimball, the glorious work he did, and the mission he so effectively filled. Always for us his personality will play on and on and on, and the strains will be heavenly music to our ears. Excerpt From Radio Talk By President Louise Y. Robison [N her radio talk on Sunday, March 21, President Robison said: "Tonight we remember one of these great souls whom we lovingly call an Honorary Member—Edward P. Kimball. The last service he rendered was in training a Relief Society chorus in Washington for their annual celebration. He died before the program was rendered. Instead of a celebration the evening Friday was turned into Memorial exercises in honor of the man beloved. One speaker made the following statement which finds response in all our hearts, 'Always for us his personality will play on and on and on, and the strains will be heavenly music to our ears.' "Funeral services were held for him today where heartfelt tributes were paid to his memory. But because of the service he has so graciously and so generously given to the Singing Mothers, we wish to offer as a tribute of appreciation to the memory of a great musician, a true friend, the beautiful words of Alfred Tennyson, 'Crossing the Bar'." 'A TRIBUTE TO EDWARD P. KIMBALL By Grace S. Colton His heart was filled with melodies; His eyes saw heavenly visions and celestial glory. As the notes rippled off his fingers, We sat through that quiet hour of music, And all the good of earth came back to keep. Us company. The whole scale was at his command, And as he played exquisitely, We saw the hills of home and heard the music in the trees— The breaking of the morn; glad, triumphant, The brilliant shadows in the sky as night changed places with the day; Father, Mother—all the golden days of youth; The evening prayer, as heart swelled with the melody In praise of God. Wedding bells and happy hearts— A child is born; rejoicing! Flowers in the garden, beauty running riot everywhere; Children at play in bright sunshine, Tossing their laughter and their shouting; Death, and the low soft notes of comforting ecstasy; The murmur of lapping water on the shore; The mighty majesty of the waves amid the storm, As wind tears water into foam and lashing music; Church bells calling to worship on His Holy Day—, And then the hour was over, and we went away; And after that, the closing of the organ, The closing of the eyes. There's a note of quiet sadness Around the little church today, For the hands that played the organ Are stilled; the artist gone away. He went out the open doorway In the quiet afternoon, Easter lilies on his bier. The sobbing of the organ And his choir you could hear. But the memory of the gladness That he put in every heart, Will be ever in our keeping, Never more from us to part. Brother Kimball, may the choir In the land you've gone to see, Have you softly play your music Throughout all eternity. On the Trails of the Old Kaibab By Elsie C. Carroll Chapter XII COME close to the tree in the cave," Lon explained to the group listening to his strange story of the stolen steers. "I hear sound. I listen. Steers bellow back in hill, ver' strange. I heap scart. I listen more. I hear men. Tree move little more. Then come still. I wait little while. Then I look at tree. I bring axe to cut down. When I hit, it jump off ground and show door. I show you." Lon struck the dead tree which was apparently rooted to the floor of the cave, and it sprang upward to the ceiling of the cavern, revealing an aperture in the wall of the cave which led to an open valley behind. Upon examination they found that this tree was suspended from the rock roof of the cave by rawhide ropes, ingeniously concealed in the dead branches. When it was lowered into place by the ropes which were operated from the rear side of the cave by crude, but cleverly contrived pulleys, it fit firmly onto the floor and appeared to have at one time grown there. It was so close against the wall that no light came through from the other side of the opening when the tree was in place. But when it was lifted, a doorway, two and a half feet wide and five feet high was opened. Both Steve and Uncle Billy had been in the cave hundreds of times, and they could now scarcely believe their eyes. Lon went on to tell how he had gone through the opening to the box-like canyon into which he now conducted the others. They could see where this led out through a sort of tunnel to the notch in the Grand Canyon itself. Fresh tracks from the steers were still visible. They examined the stone weights which raised and lowered the tree. The pulleys were so arranged that a heavy jar on the tree itself, or a jerk from the outside on one of the ropes would lift the tree. It lowered itself automatically as the ropes unwound. Lon explained that after he had made the discovery and had connected it with his former experience, he had started to the Park to tell Steve. He had met Helen and had relayed the message to her, returning to make further investigations. He had followed the stolen steers at a safe distance, and when they were bedded for the night on a shelf of the canyon trail, he had returned to the ranch, expecting to find Steve with help. When he had found Hawley with Uncle Billy and the others, he had hidden on the ridge above the cabins, waiting for an opportunity to reveal what he knew without giving the discovery away to Hawley. "But I don't understand yet," Steve said, "just where the cattle are now, or how Hawley is going to get them to his range." "This trail around the face of the canyon," explained Helen, "joins your range land with his. I'm sure T saw that train of steers down under the rim of the canyon when I was flying with Pete Rockwood yesterday. His men are taking them to his corrals where the brands will ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB be changed from Double H to Crossed Four Bar." "I wonder if you can be right." "There's one way to find out; to be at Hawley's ranch when those steers arrive and catch him redhanded in the act of changing your brand." "We'll try," Steve declared, new fire in his eyes. "Uncle Billy, Lon will take you around this secret trail. You can keep out of sight and follow the thieves onto Hawley's range with the steers so there'll be no alibi. Helen—Mrs. Latimer— and I will go to the Park and phone to Fredonia for some real officers and be out at Hawley's ranch when the cattle are brought in." STEVE and Helen made the trip back to the Park almost in silence. Once he said, "TI can't help thinking how it must seem to you—having your dad go the way he did— and then coming out here to find things in a mess like this. I promise [ll try to make it up to you the best I can." "You have nothing to make up, Steve. If Mr. Hawley or someone else took my father's cattle, that was not your fault." "I'm afraid you'll have a hard time making your husband believe that it isn't somebody's fault." Still she did not tell him. It was almost dark when they reached the hotel. Steve put his call through for the officers, then prepared for bed. Helen insisted upon his allowing Wood Russell to dress his wounds and upon his staying at the hotel instead of going to Uncle Billy's cabin as he planned. He looked ill with weariness and anxiety. When Wood had finished, Steve came to tell Helen good night. She 285 was in one corner of the lobby, pretending to read. "It's strange to think who you really are—and that our dads were pals." "They were like David and Jonathan, Uncle Billy told me." She was afraid to look into his dark brooding eyes lest he should read her secret. "Tt would have been great if we could have known each other when we were kids, and grown up as friends. "But we are friends now, aren't we?" Helen stood up and held out her hands. "Yes—friends," he repeated. He held her hands lightly for a moment then gripped them close. "Good night," he said abruptly and hurried from the room. HELEN found a letter from Aunt Nettie waiting in her cabin, "Your foolishness," it informed her, "has cost you dear. George has started suit for divorce, charging you with desertion. Can't you come to your senses? If you will hurry home it may not be too late. Without finishing, Helen crushed the letter in her hands. Her heart was singing, Free! Free! FARLY the next morning Bernice Hawley came to Helen's cabin. "I'm sorry for the things I said to you at the Lodge. Pete Rockwood has been showing me how foolish I've been—in more ways than one. I've found out that I do care for him—even more than for Steve. I hope you'll forgive me and forget how nasty I was." Helen patted the girl's hand and kissed her cheek. "Tt's all right, dear. I know that in your heart you know better, and 286 I'm glad about you and Pete. I promised to say a good word for him, but evidently he didn't need it." "T came early because I'm going to Salt Lake today. Dad is selling out. Pete's going to take him to Texas tomorrow to finish up his deal. I may not see you again. But I just had to tell you that I know that you're not like Tess Morley and that I hope you'll be good to Steve." Helen flushed. "There's nothing between Steve and me. But I'm glad you came to tell me good bye, and hope you and Pete will be very happy." As Bernice walked away, Helen felt like adding a little prayer for that wish. She was sorry for the humiliation and shame Bernice was sure to have to face as her father's daughter. HE hurried to the hotel to inform Steve about Hawley's plans to sell. That explained why his men were rounding up the cattle. "We haven't been any too soon," Steve said excitedly. "I hope there's no way he can give us the slip now. Those officers ought to be coming." They still hadn't arrived, however, when he and Helen had finished breakfast. "To play safe," Steve said, "I'm going out to that observation tower overlooking Hawley's ranch. You know where it is, don't you? The one the rangers use to watch for forest fires on the west side of the mountain." "Yes, I know." "As soon as the officers come, bring them out. We can see from there when my—our—steers are brought up out of the canyon onto the range." A moment later he added: "The more I think of it, the stronger the evidence seems. Hawley’s RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE herd is your cattle plus what he has stolen from me. Fortunately, as we were saying yesterday, there are ways of discovering changed brands even on old cattle. I believe we'll be able to prove that he and maybe that red-bearded rascal were the men your father hired to drive his cattle to Texas. Your trip out here may be worth while yet." For a moment he stood as if he were going to say something more, but instead, he walked to his horse and rode away. TEVE had not been gone long when the officers arrived. Helen made the necessary explanations. At first they were incredulous about Hawley's part in the affair. It was difficult for them to believe that he had violated his deputyship in such a manner. But Helen's story was so convincing that they went with her, at least eager to find out the truth. When they reached the tower, Steve was waiting impatiently. He could already see the cattle coming up from the rim of the canyon. In a short time they would be in the clearing where Hawley and his men were waiting to complete their job. Steve tried to persuade Helen to go back to the hotel. "There might be shooting," he explained. But she would not listen. The officers rode on ahead down the ridge to the clearing where the branding was to be done. A little back from the edge of the timber they waited to explain their plan. "You two," said the sheriff, "wait here while we creep down a little closer. We'll whistle when the moment comes." Again Steve wanted Helen to go back. "Tt's really dangerous with fellows who would do what these have done. Your husband would never ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB forgive me if I let you in on a thing like this.". "My husband knows I would let myself in on it if I wanted to be there," she told him. Steve leaned towards her, and placing one hand on her saddle horn drew their mounts close together. "Helen—would he care very much—if I kissed you—once—for what we might have been to each other?" "We won't ask him," she said, lifting her face. For a moment their lips clung; their senses blurred into a great joy. Then the sheriff's whistle came through the trees. They rode Hawley was shouting directions as the steers were driven into the enclosure. He stood with the branding iron waiting for his men to fasten a second steer securely enough that he might place the new brand exactly over the old one. Helen was surprised to see Tess Morley on the opposite side of the corral with her movie camera, taking pictures of what was going' on. "Why should she want pictures of this?" she wondered aloud. Steve said nothing, but he thought he knew. The people in the corral were so intent on what they were doing that they did not see the sheriff's party until the officer called: "Hold on Hawley! Your jig's up!" The officers, with pistols and handcuffs in evidence scaled the fence. Hawley looked at them a moment with dropping jaw. Then he threw the branding iron in their direction and shouted an oath. As they drew nearer he pointed to a red-headed man who was in the act of mounting a horse. "Don't forget Red Morley there into the clearing. 287 and his girl, Tess, if you're going to take anybody. It was them who planned this racket." Like a flash the red-bearded man was in the saddle. Spurs struck and he sped in the direction from which the cattle had just come. But he was met by Uncle Billy and Lon and brought back, cursing. Tess did not move. The officers snapped handcuffs onto Hawley and read their warrant. 'You fellows bring the other two," the sheriff ordered his deputies and Uncle Billy. We'll go over in this cabin and have a little chat." Tess, with her head high, gave' one glance in Steve's direction and walked toward the cabin, leaving the camera on the tripod by the fence. Steve and Helen stood looking over the corral full of milling cattle. Down in the edge of the clearing they could see another herd struggling around a bed of salt. "It's too good to have the puzzle solved," Steve sighed. "And it's better still to know you'll have your father's herd." HELEN did not speak. Her eyes were far away. After a little Steve broke the silence again. "It's going to be a job for a good lawyer to figure out what's my share and what's yours." She brought her eyes to him then and asked slowly, Why need we bother to have it figured out? Why can't we go on as partners with the Double H Cattle Company our fathers started?" Steve started, not daring to hope what her words suggested. "But your husband—would he—" "My husband," said Helen with a look for Steve which he could not 288 mistake, "is an unfortunate incident in my past." Her hand crept into his. "For us there is only the present and the future." He took her into his arms and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE held her close. Twilight flung her mantle over the valley and the brooding spirit of the Kaibab filled their souls with wordless content. THE END Glorious Motherhood By Agnes Just Reid WHEN a young mother hears the cry of her first-born, she feels that the ecstasy of that moment can never be equalled, but when a second baby comes her joy is two-fold. Imagine then a mother who has seventeen times experienced the thrill of motherhood and who still has that number of living, loving, healthy, intelligent children. How can one mother heart hold so much of joy! SUCH is the lot of Dorothy Dean Yancey, of Blackfoot, Idaho. She does not, however, think that she has done much. She told her experiences—and such experiences, hesitatingly because she could not see how they would be interesting to anyone else. The Yanceys are not wealthy people in the way the world measures wealth. Most of their married lives they have lived on a farm where there was much hard work and little reward. Now, Mr. Yancey has a small trucking business. Wherever they live, the problem of the homemaker has been the same, keeping the washing and the mending and the sewing and the cooking done for this big family, yet this brave woman does it all and finds time to help on the outside to bring in something to help meet expenses. She has been blessed with good health, but there is something besides good health that has carried her through thirty years of married life and kept her youth still shining in her face. As a child, she loved babies more than anything in the world. At her mother's home the babies grew up too soon so that she never had a chance to take care of them. She determined to have lots of babies in her own home. When her first one was one year old, the second one was born, so that while she held one in her arms, she reached out and held a bottle for the older one to get his food. Since that time, her busy hands have always been doing double duty. Only six months of her married life has she had help in her house. After the first twins were born, she did not get strong right away and she was obliged to hire help. She has had twins three times. The last pair, and the youngest of the family, are now four years old. When they were born there were six babies too young to go to school. Six babies at once! Most mothers would consider six a good sized family and would prefer a few years between birthdays, not this dauntless mother. When asked about wash day, she said: "Oh, I get along all right. I always get up earlier on wash day, about three o'clock, and have it ail out of the way by the time the children get up." On ordinary days she gets breakfast while the family is getting around, then the older children do the kitchen work while she cleans GLORIOUS MOTHERHOOD rooms and makes beds, so by the time the children go to school, the work is done and this busy mother is free to sew or to go out to work for others. Does she ever go to Church? Oh, yes. The whole family never fails to go to Church twice every Sunday. She gets up a little earlier to get them all ready but she does not mind that. She also attends Relief Society meetings regularly and teaches a class. It looks as if the hardest days might be over for this busy mother since there really is not as much to be done in her town home as there was on the farm. As the older children grew up to help with the house work, she did much of the outdoor farm work. Whenever possible she has thinned beets, plowed beets and cut potatoes. One spring she cut eight hundred sacks of seed, averaging seventy-five sacks a day. Some of the neighbors were skeptical so they gathered to see her give
a demonstration. She not only proved that she could cut that many but some of the doubters went over a sack carefully and found only three sets without eyes. No machine yet invented can keep pace with her. There has never been a death in the Yancey family but one baby was still-born and four others were premature and never lived. Three of the older ones are married; one son returned recently from a mission in South Carolina, and a daughter works for the Interstate Commerce Commission at Washington, D. C. The rest of the family she has with her and when things seem too quiet around the house, she borrows one of her grandchildren for a while. She has even been called in to take care of other people's children while they go on vacations, for the neighbors all realize that she is a most remarkable mother.
MAY DAY REVERIE By Della Adams Leitner
Children round the May pole dancing Weaving ribbons gay; Prisms flashing on green velvet, Greet the month of May.
Watching you, oh tripping fairies, Time rolls back the scroll, Happy childhood playmates join me Circling round the pole.
Precious memories they bring me,: Though the teardrops start,- Treasuring these, I keep forever May day in my heart,
To President Heber J. Grant
Among the deeply appreciated letters received by President Grant on his eightieth birthday was the following
AN APPRECIATION
"THIS morn at dawn, while scarcely yet awake, remembrance came that this was the Natal Day of our great Leader—that he had reached the milestone marked "Four Score." There welled within. My soul a prayer of gratitude and praise for what his life has meant of uplift and of service to mankind. Perhaps few days have passed in all those eighty years, when someone was not cheered or gladdened by some thoughtful, kindly act of his. It seemed as though I saw again his mother's radiant face, when, as she finished reading his most recent note to her, she smiled and said: "Unless he comes himself he almost always writes a note to me each day which shows his loving thoughtfulness." Next came a prayer that God would spare him long, and give him health and peace, with increased wisdom as the years shall come and go. At once I seemed to feel that mine was only one of a half million who, this day, were praying thus. A multitude with hearts in unison, asking the same great boon. How could he be other than a man of God—strong in the strength that God alone can give—wise, tender, helpful, sympathetic, when all these prayers were offered that he might be such a man? Strange would it be, indeed, should faith like this remain unheeded! And so my gratitude found new expression in the thought that even faith and confidence and prayer of mine, might have availed in some small measure to bring lengthened life and health and blessing to our Leader who is much beloved. Richly blessed my life has been through mingling with his kindred and himself. His mother while my neighbor taught me much of cheerfulness, of patience and implicit faith and trust in Providence. Ever since my girlhood, have I shared the blessing of his wife's companionship; and her fine intellect and spirit as well as rich experiences and opportunities that have come to me through her, have left sweet memories that are priceless. From the ten lovely daughters who have come to bless our President's home, have I gained much. Rachel—far-seeing, frank, practical, efficient, does honor to her noble heritage. Lutie — sympathetic, generous tactful, whose heart is educated more highly even than is her splendid mind. A true neighbor in its finest sense she proved to be, when for almost half a score of years it was my blessed privilege to call her mine. Flo — typifies the home-loving, home-making mother, and yet with all gives generously to others from the riches of her well stored mind. And who can measure or enumerate the joy and comfort given by Edith, through the sharing of her glorious gift. She knows no cast of rich or poor, of high or lowly born, but ever goes to place of sorrow or of mirth to love, to serve, to bless. With Anna we have shared a gift of more material kind—delicious viands prepared by her own capable hands, and many homes are richer in happiness because the things she knew so well she taught to makers of these homes.
TO PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT
To Mary, the ever calm and placid daughter, I am much indebted. She gives me treasures from the deep springs of her intellect and spirit that refresh my soul and furnish food for thought through future days. "Aunt" Emily's daughters I have not known so well, yet have loved and admired them for their poise and charming personality. More than thankful have I been for luck or chance or circumstance that the younger two came to live beneath the same roof in lovely Deseret, for several weeks. They came thither while I chaperoned a group of charming girls on a vacation trip. 'Twas Frances' trousseau they had come to make, but Frances had her thoughts amid the clouds—on music or on Wallace, so gifted Emily planned and wrought as though by magic. Of course she let all of us
help just a little on the lovely things that are so thrilling to girls' hearts, and so the music and the stitching and the close association of those few short weeks, brought friendship that became more valued with the years that came and went, while Emily still was here. Among the fourth generation there are some whom I have known and loved from their childhood until now, when they bring their babies to make friends with me. Besides all this, the daughters chose their husbands from among the families of my friends. In several instances have I known five generations on both sides—in others three or two. And so for President Grant and all who share his honored name we pray like Tiny Tim "God Bless You Every One." —May Booth Talmage.
TO MY MOTHER By Gertrude Perry Stanton
She did not lack in other gracious gifts,— A gleam of humor brightening careworn hours, A clear intelligence of mind and heart, A love of birds and animals and flowers,
A generous sharing of her scanty store, A sense of justice rarer still to find; But still I treasure most this memory— She was so kind.
Her life knew many burdens hard to bear; For her no luxury or careless ease, But patient still, and cheerful, she wrought on, And gave but little thought herself to please.
And so I covet most, as I look back On childhood days now left so far behind, The gift of charity that suffers long, And still is kind.
The Promise By Blanche Sego
ELEANOR MARTIN opened her shabby pocketbook and placed the five dollar bill inside, as she thanked her employer and left the store. It was her earnings for the few days in which she had held the position as clerk in the small country grocery, during the rush of customers that the sale had brought. Holding her head high with a new sense of self reliance, she walked slowly down the sidewalk. Which store would be the best for her intended purchases? She wondered. Benton's, the one on the left, did not keep the kind of shoes she wanted for the twins; but they might have the cunning little anklets with the rose stripe, she had dreamed of purchasing to match the shoes. Well, she would try Burdick's. They would be almost sure to have both—then a sudden thought came to her and she stopped outside the door weak and ashamed. The tithing! There was the fifty cents due on this five dollars; then four dollars more on that forty Dewey earned in the early spring. They had postponed payment of tithing thinking that they could get more money later. Three times she had been in possession of enough to pay it; but each time had smothered conscience with the thought that the children were needing things so badly that she would wait. Dewey too, had been willing to wait. He had been gone now, two weeks, seeking employment. The last letter she received from him was so full of hopelessness and bitterness that she had cried for hours over it and had prayed earnestly that he would soon be fortunate enough to find work. There was barely enough flour in the house for another baking of bread. Where would the next come from? If she used this five dollars she could purchase flour and the articles for the twins, also. Even as the thought came to her, however, there came also another. As if in accusation the words came to her mind: "Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say wherein have we robbed Thee? In tithes and offerings." Then the promise following these words came to her. The promise of the Lord that upon those who gave their tithes and offerings, He would open the windows of heaven, and pour out such a blessing that there should not be room enough to receive it. Eleanor's face suddenly lighted. She had decided. Even though it would take all but fifty cents of her earnings, she would pay their tithing. The fifty cents would be more than sufficient for the purchase of the anklets, and she supposed she could black the children's old shoes so that they would do a little longer. With light feet she hastened on her way to Bishop Hadley's house, anxious to pay it now for fear temptation might be too strong for her before the following fast day. The bishop happened to be at home. He kindly inquired concerning her health and that of her family, adding later that he hoped they were in improved circumstances. It was on the tip of Eleanor's
THE PROMISE
tongue to blurt out the truth; they had only two or three handfuls of flour in the house; that the twins were needing clothing, and that even now, her husband was walking the streets of a nearby city, tired, hungry and hopeless. However she shut her lips firmly together and remained silent. They would try a little longer without asking the bishop for assistance. As he made out the receipt, Bishop Hadley remarked, "I am pleased to see more tithing coming in. Our ward has been behind on its tithes and offerings, and many of our people are in need of assistance, which it is often difficult to render because of this. The condition is improving lately, I am glad to say." Again a surge of shame swept Eleanor. Of what had she been thinking? Of course she must give the remaining fifty cents in her possession for a fast offering. She could not recall but one offering that had been given by them during the entire year. Hurriedly she gave the money to the bishop. "Here is our fast offering for the month, Bishop Hadley. As I may not have the opportunity of attending the next fast meeting, I will give it to you now." Thanking him as he gave her the tithing receipt, she started homeward, conscious of a sweet peace and calm that had settled over her troubled spirit. The twins must wear their ragged shoes and stockings, but it really did not seem to matter so much after all. She, Eleanor Martin had done her
duty, and the little she had given might help some poor family in greater need than her own.
THAT night after kissing the children good night, and patting their yellow curls as they strayed over the pillow, she knelt by their bedside and prayed that they all might be able to obtain the necessities of life and be ever faithful. Two days later Eleanor received a letter from her husband. How different it was from the previous one! After wandering for days, seeking work, he had made the acquaintance of a splendid young man, who, he later learned was head of a large business firm there in the city. Upon hearing her husband's story and receiving references from him, the young man had given him employment which paid well and would last for some time. This had happened two days before; the evening of the day upon which Eleanor had given her offerings. Towards the end of her husband's letter were the words, "Now dear, I will be able to send you some money immediately, as my employer is going to give me some in advance, because of our circumstances. Out of this, I wish you to pay our tithing." Eleanor was glad that Dewey too, had at last seen the light. Sinking to her knees in gratitude and humility, she gave thanks to One who never fails to keep His promises, for the great blessings they had received both spiritually and temporally, which filled her heart to overflowing.
Our Inspired Leaders By Grace C. Jacobsen
IT was a year or two previous to the great financial crash of 1929, as I remember it, that Bishop John Wells came to Sanpete as a visitor to the quarterly conference representing the General Authorities, bearing an important message to all Latter-day Saints. At that time we were enjoying the heyday of prosperity and making plans for a greater future in expansion and investments in material wealth. The parable of the Savior was being repeated. Old barns were being torn down and new ones built wherein to store the good things of the harvest, the "Golden Calf" was ready for the worshipers, and then on that calm Sunday afternoon this man of God arose, and addressed the people on their temporal salvation. Much of that sermon fell on unheeding ears, and the soundness of that advice was not generally recognized. The seeds of inspiration fell on shallow ground and the sun of prosperity soon burnt them up. There were some, however, who listened and profited thereby. To recall all the speaker said is impossible, but the following was the kernel of truth that has lived on and borne fruit an hundredfold: "The Latter-day Saints are to build up the waste places of Zion by tithes and offerings unto the Lord. They should be industrious, and wise in the use of their time and means. Live in peace and good will toward each other and all men. Keep out of unnecessary debt, and above all let all wildcat schemes alone." As we look back over the recent past and see the homes and farms lost, the wreckage and sorrow wrought by the evil of living above the ability to pay, it is sad, indeed, especially when fair warning had been given.
TODAY wildcat schemes have become a national industry. Rackets spring up like mushrooms, with never-ending numbers and varieties. This sly false viper, reaches its polluted fingers into every nook and crevice of our national structure. This public enemy invades the blooming garden of babyhood, and destroys its lively buds without shame. It sears the field of promising youth without dread, and creeps with stealthy step into the domain of men and women, slinks into the home, robs the aged, undermines business, exacts its pound of flesh from misfortune, grief and even death itself. No one is safe, no one escapes unless he be wise and lets all wildcat schemes alone. How we need to follow the advice of our Inspired Leaders!
ONE of the most illuminating books written on this subject is "The Run For Your Money," written by joint authors Ellison and Brick, which is now in the second printing. This book is the result of a thorough investigation of the racketeering game and shows how these human leeches make vast fortunes off the trusting, honest people who can be fooled into the net of deception so carefully spread for their feet. "Pray always that ye enter not into temptation." 'Know the truth and the truth shall make you free," are the safest guide posts in life, and the source of never-failing strength and security.
Little Moments of Eternity
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? MEMORIES Take Time To Meditate By Lella Marler Hoggan
"Day after day as the swift moments fall, We are hanging pictures on Memory's wall. The painter is ready, and dark or fair, Our thoughts and acts are pictured there." —Selected.
YOUTH looks to the future, age, to the past. Youth plans her achievements. Age remembers her victories. The vision of today becomes the reality of tomorrow. And the accomplishment of the present will be the memory: of the future. Youth chooses the career of age, patterns her ideals, determines her vocation, selects her com-
panion, and in a measure, forms the habits that will bind age hand and wrist or will lift her to the glory of the stars. "Tomorrow will hold in her outstretched hand The fruit of her yesterday's seeds." Today is the warder of the gates of tomorrow. Are we going to let things enter into the present that will defeat the purpose of the future? Let us rather pray with Henry David Thoreau: "Sweet God I ask Thee for no meaner pelf Than that I may not disappoint myself."
OUR memories are what we make them. What beautiful, permanent things can we put into life today that will shed a halo far into the future and help us to overcome every difficulty? Memory is one of the choice gifts of life. We can lift ourselves out of the deepest abyss of sorrow or despair, on the golden wings of memory. "I love old roads that lure my feet Along the way of quiet streams, With rustic spans where I may pause And weave a golden web of dreams." —Grace Ingles Frost.
LET us watch for the glad moment when we may reach out and help a fellow voyager over the river of experience that we have crossed with so much effort and solicitude. Have we experienced the pleasure of reading to some blind person for a few minutes every week? Do we ever write letters for the palsied old lady next door? Have we learned how to "play house" graciously with the little children in our home? Do we put vision and beauty into the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
stories we tell to the neighborhood girls and boys? Does the gift we carry to some little discouraged mother bring hope with it and forward looking joy? Have we learned that we must never, never suppress nor betray the confidences of our children when they come to us with their high hopes and their far-reaching ambitions? "Each day I seek for higher, better paths Than feet of mine have ever trod.— Paths nearer to my brother man And closer to God." —G. W. Hendricks.
SOMETIMES a word of hope, a reminder of present virtues or past achievements has saved a discouraged person from the brink of sin or despair. Many a child has cherished in memory some precious letter or lovely promise that has led him to greater heights and finer accomplishments. Our blessing resting over our children as a benediction, will not only cheer and comfort them but it may be a saving factor in some crucial hour of temptation.
A MOTHER and a daughter once exchanged gifts at the beginning of the year with the thought that these tokens would commemorate a loving understanding between them. 'Whenever you use this little gift," said the mother, "think of me, and try to do the thing that will bring your life to the sweetest, the happiest and the highest plane possible. And when I use my gift I shall think of you, and shall try to be to you what my mother has been to me, a joy, a strength and an inspiration. And no matter how far apart we may chance to be let us each pray for the other's welfare and happiness, that this little pact may hold us to the right and lift us to the heights. If
LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY
we lose or break the gift, never mind, it is only a symbol of the reality the memory of which can never be lost, and we can still build our hopes on the remembrance of what has been." "Let Fate do her worst, there are relics of joy, Bright dreams of the past, which she cannot destroy. * * * * * You may break, you may shatter the vase if you will, But the scent of the roses will hang round it still." —Thomas Moore.
LET us cultivate the habit of never retiring to our beds at night without having read something inspiring, or having listened to a lovely melody, or looked at a beautiful picture, or done a kindly deed during the day. An elderly lady once told how she kept a little Book of Happiness. Each night she recorded in the book some pleasant incident of the day. "This practice," said she, "keeps me always alert to the lovely events of life. If nothing occurs worth recording during the day, I make it my business to bring about some beautiful happening. I go in search of joy and I always find it, and incidentally share it with someone else." Another woman who wove her memories into beautiful quilts and
rugs said, "They remind me of the dresses I wore to weddings and picnics and celebrations of all sorts. To look at them is like looking at a picture book." Relics, souvenirs, photographs bring pleasant memories. Scrap books may be made rich in wit and wisdom. And the person who collects and memorizes choice poems and bits of prose, adds a wealth of beauty to his vocabulary and an inspiration to his living. "So there are a hundred ways To the long-lost yesterdays, Where our youth forever gleams— Down and down the road of dreams." —Wilbur D. Nesbit.
IF life is rich in service and sacrifice and is forever sustained by the assurance of divine guardianship, there will be no depths of despair that we can not overcome and no heights of glory that we may not aspire to reach. And from the wealth of a full and wholesome life will come our glad memories, memories that will hold us to the fulfillment of our dreams. "From what oil I could find in the valleys of truth, And what wick I could weave from the threads of my thought, I have lighted a lamp, with the dreams of my youth, And lifted to those who have toiled and have fought." —Selected.
NO man can be provident of his time who is not prudent in the choice of his company.—Jeremy Taylor.
IF you wish to be held in esteem, you must associate only with those who are estimable —Bruyere.
BETWEEN two evils, choose neither; between two goods, choose both.— Tryon Edwards.
WHEN peace rules the day, where reason rules the mind.—Collins.
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
The apple trees are blooming, There's laughter 'long the way, Oh the gladness of May!
MRS. J. BORDEN HARRIMAN, New York and Washington socialite, will be the second woman envoy to a foreign country if she accepts the appointment of Minister to Norway.
LENA MADESEN PHILLIPS expresses disappointment that women are not participating more in statecraft. It is strange, that after the long struggle for suffrage, more women have not come in to high positions. Is it that men are too tenacious of their prerogatives or that after all women are too indifferent? One cabinet member, one minister in the foreign service, one federal judge, a director of the mint, one United States senator, two women governors; that is about all the major positions women have acquired during the seventeen years of suffrage.
MISS ELEANOR RATHBONE and the duchess of Athol, members of the British parliament, are urging a firmer stand by their government against the Italian attitude in Europe and Africa.
A PREMIUM on motherhood has been established by Boris, king of Bulgaria. He has granted suffrage to all married women over twenty-one who have borne children in lawful wedlock.
MRS. EVA MAESER CRANDALL of Utah, is the author of a poetic drama, "John Hafen," depicting the life episodes of this fine artist. The drama was presented at the Springville National Art Show.
QUEEN ELIZABETH has chosen her gown for the Coronation —ivory silk embroidered with gold worked into forms of Tudor roses, thistles, shamrocks, daffodils and lotus blooms, standing for England, Scotland, Ireland, Wales and India, With her robe of royal purple and ermine, she will be a picture of elegance long to be remembered. The little princesses Elizabeth and Margaret will be permitted to wear the purple robe without the ermine.
MRS. LILLIE T. FREEZE, one of Utah's choicest and gifted mothers, died last March. Known as a writer, a missionary among children, a singer of beautiful songs, her spiritual influence brought solace to her legion of friends.
BERTITA HARDING in her latest book, "Golden Fleece," reviews the lives of Franz Joseph and Elizabeth of Austria. This young biographer of the Hapsburgs first won favor with the public through her book, "Phantom Crown," the thrilling story of the ill-fated Maximilian and Carlotta and their Mexican adventure.
CAROLYN WELLS' new novel, "The Mystery of the Tarn," is said by the critics to be as well mixed up a concoction as any Miss Wells has brewed.
GRACE CANDLAND JACOBSEN of Mount Pleasant, Utah, is represented by a poem and brief biography in "American Voices," a new anthology.
A Shrine to Will Rogers
A LITTLE chapel is to be a part of the Will Rogers Shrine of the Sun which is nearing completion on a promontory of famous Cheyenne mountain above Broadmoor hotel, just south of Colorado Springs, Colorado. The Will Rogers chapel and shrine will be everlasting as the mountains and as steadfast as the sun. This beautiful silver shaft stands out—like the man it honors. Its base is imbedded in the backbone of the nation, on the front range of the Rocky Mountains. Its spire kisses the Colorado sky. It is away from the busy world; it affords peace and quiet; it is almost part of God's great mountains; it commands meditation; it is dignified and picturesque, seemingly a link between the early imprints of the famous humorist, and his celestial home. The granite tower, resembling a feudal castle, was conceived and entirely financed by Spencer Penrose, Colorado Springs pioneer and friend of Mr. Rogers. It was designed by Charles E. Thomas and built by Milton J. Strong. The spire is a genuine castle in the air, reached by the "ladder-to-the-sky" Broadmoor-Cheyenne highway which zig-zags up the face of Cheyenne mountain. It contains only materials that will endure. There are no nails and no wood in the construction. More than 5,000 cubic yards of light pink granite was taken from a large single boulder near the memorial, to make the tower walls. By night the shrine will be flood-
lighted as a sparkling gem studded against the velvet of night. From the pinnacle will burn a sodium light with provision for it to shine perpetually. There are four rooms in tier inside the shrine, connected by a spiral stairs leading to an observation alcove on the top. At the base of the 100-foot shaft will be the Will Rogers chapel, which will be open to all mankind. Another of the rooms will be the Will Rogers Memorial room. Mr. Davidson, American sculptor who was a close friend of Mr. Rogers, is now completing an oversize bust of Mr. Rogers, in his Paris studio for the memorial room. Randall Davy, noted Santa Fe artist, is painting the history of the West on the interior walls. The frescoes are arranged so that visitors may follow the, history chronologically by ascending the stairs. Davey will probably do the religious paintings in the chapel before the memorial is dedicated next summer. Thousands have already visited the shrine, which has been under construction for 28 months. Around the shrine is a five-acre sanctuary filled with native Colorado flowers and evergreens. Mr. Rogers has stood on the knoll where the memorial has been built
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
at the 9,000-foot elevation. Just two miles from the shrine is the base of Pike's Peak, the snow-capped mountain sighted in 1806 by Lieutenant Zebulon M. Pike as he camped with his troops at Port Pueblo, 42 miles to the southeast. Pike and a handful of followers tried to scale the high peak, but they unsuspectingly ascended Cheyenne mountain, discovering their error when they rested on the promontory now marked by the Rogers shrine. Pike told his exhausted troopers that the peak which took his name could never be scaled by man. Its rugged crown is raised above timberline to 14,109 feet. Pike was wrong, because Spencer Penrose, the same man who built the Will Rogers Shrine of the Sun, built the famous cog railroad and the world's automobile highway to the summit of Pike's Peak. The shrine was named "Will Rogers Shrine of the Sun" because it often is shut off from the world when tufts of white clouds float between it and the plains half a mile below. The sharp angles catch the sun's rays, especially in the late afternoon as the sun drops behind the lofty peak, which break the sunlight into spears of crimson which play upon the granite memorial and chapel.
Missionary Centennial
MRS. BERTHA A. KLEINMAN has written a pageant for the Great Britain Missionary Centennial. This will be presented in May following the Coronation in London and perhaps in Preston, England, where the Gospel was first introduced. Mrs. Kleinman has featured the Relief Society in this dramatization, even though it was not organized until five years after the ushering in of the Gospel in that land. We print herewith some excerpts from Mrs. Kleinman's very fine work. President Grant has decided to go to this celebration, and Mrs. Vida Fox Clawson expects to take a large party from the mountain States to celebrate this wonderful event.
THE FIRST FOREIGN MISSION GREAT BRITAIN 1837
To north, to south, to eastward and to west, On crested wave, to earth's remotest isle, Brave envoys bend their mission quest to launch The Message of Salvation to the world. At Truth's exalted lamp they light their flame, The old, the young in sainted retinue— Across the seas to Britain's fair domain And thence to lave a waiting continent. A ripened vineyard ready for the scythe, For Israel's choicest blood is sprinkled there, And in that whited harvest-tide to be Whole nations shall be garnered in a day. Resound ye hills, ye pinnacles and steeples, God of our fathers, List the symphony, Harken ye stars as Zion calls her peoples, To lift their anthemed praises unto Thee! In theme superb the Epic of Salvation Entones its matchless text to all the world, To those who live—to earth's remote creation, To those who die the message is unfurled. Centennial Dawn, O blessed dispensation O Glorious Faith that lights the hearts of men, Encrowned upon the Rock of Revelation The Gospel fullness is restored again!
(As great tableau of the nations is shown, with pageantry moving aside as President Grant mounts among the nations and proclaims his matchless testimony.)
Tableau: The organization of the Relief Society, March 17, 1842. Adaptation of "Daughters of Zion," by ladies chorus.)
In ministry of holy charity, To feed the widowed and the fatherless, To carry solace to the desolate, To ease the pangs of suffering and death— Called he the women of the fold to serve In delegated ranks of sisterhood. Emancipated they to mission fields None but a prophet could inaugurate; Lo! Zion's daughters, chosen and elect, Enfranchised first and foremost of the earth.
MISSION OF THE WOMEN OF THE CHURCH (With anthem —Bertha A. Kleinman.
Relief Society Conference April 2 and 3, 1937
By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
THE Annual Conference of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was held in Salt Lake City, Friday and Saturday, April 2 and 3, 1937. President Louise Y. Robison was in charge. In addition to the Officers' Meeting and two General Sessions, there were five Departments held—the Secretaries', Magazine, Social Welfare, Work and Business, Choristers' and Organists'. The special features were the Reception for Mission and Stake Presidents and Officers, the Mission and Stake Presidents' Breakfast, and an Illustrated Lecture on Abraham Lincoln. The attendance at all meetings was very gratifying and enthusiastic, including representatives from 117 Stakes and 9 Missions. The following was the response to the general roll call: Mission Presidents, 8; Mission Officers, 2; Stake Presidents, 95; Counselors, 126; Secretaries, 81; Board Members, 422; making a total attendance of 734. The music for all sessions was especially good. The Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the capable leadership of Charlotte O. Sackett, were assisted by Professor Frank W. Asper at the organ, Alta B. Cassity at the piano, and William M. Hardiman with the violin. The soloists were, Margaret Summerhays, Margaret S. Hewlett. There were also the fine contributions of organ music by Adeline R. Ensign, and duets by Brother and Sister Stewart McMaster, and Richard Keddington and Dorothy Kimball. The Reception for General, Mission and Stake Officers, held in the Hotel Utah, was a thoroughly delightful event, and offered an opportunity for Relief Society members from all parts to meet, make new acquaintances and renew old ones. A special feature was the illustrated lecture on Abraham Lincoln by Dr. George W. Middleton. This was a most valuable climax to the study in Literature of the life of a great National hero,
THE Presidents' Breakfast, held at the historic Lion House, was one of the very pleasant features of the Conference. The Presidency and General Board gratefully acknowledge the beautiful flowers sent by the North Sevier Stake. The ushers for the different meetings were kindly furnished by the following Stakes: Ensign, 'Highland, Liberty, Pioneer, Salt Lake and Wells.
OFFICERS' MEETING OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison
THE General Board is offering a new service to you at this Conference. To relieve you from taking notes, we have prepared, and will send to your home address a synopsis of the program of each of the Department Meetings. Division of Responsibility: There seems to be a misunderstanding about the responsibility of Counselors in some of the Stakes and Wards. Only a short time ago we met two fine, intelligent Counselors who were discouraged because they knew nothing of the Stake President's plans for Relief Society work. In another Stake the division was made too well. The President and each of the Counselors had special work, but they never held meetings to discuss their plans which would enable them to coordinate the work. Years ago we asked to have a division of responsibility. The Presidents—Stake and Ward—are to have supervision of the Teachers and all Welfare work. They may have an Aid or Welfare Worker, but the President should be consulted and help make plans for persons or families in need of assistance. Each Counselor—Stake and Ward—should be given a definite department of the work to supervise and develop. The Counselor best fitted for the educational work, either first or second counselor, should be given this department,. While the other Counselor would have charge of the sewing and handwork department. THE Presidency should meet together frequently, where plans should be freely discussed and suggestions made. Relief Society Funds: Six months ago, we tried to emphasize the ruling that all money collected by Relief Society Visiting Teachers must be turned into the Charity Account, and used only for charity. We are sorry if this has worked a hardship on any Society, but we feel this to be the proper procedure, and in all kindness ask you to live strictly to this ruling. Reports have reached us that some of the Stakes use Annual Dues for purposes other than strengthening Relief Society in the Stake. Annual Dues must not be used to make donations for any oth-
er purpose, no matter how worthy the cause. It is not to be used in building or furnishing meeting houses, for contributions to Community Chests, War Veterans, nor for parties or gifts where only Stake Board members are benefited. It can legitimately be used in defraying expenses of Board Members in their official visits to Wards, in attending Relief Society General Conference, in entertaining Ward Officers and Ward Workers when such gatherings are necessary for giving instructions and stimulating interest in Relief Society work. Where there is a surplus it can be used in helping the weaker Wards carry their responsibility. It may interest you to know that not one cent of the Annual Dues, which you send to us, is spent in entertainment or gifts of any kind. It is used entirely for traveling expenses of General Board Members, in visiting Stakes and Missions, and for the literature and correspondence to the Stakes and Missions. If you have revenue from Stake parties, pageants or bazaars, that money may be used for any purpose you choose, but Annual Dues are for one purpose only— building up Relief Society. Transients: A heavy burden is placed on our people in California by residents of Utah, Idaho, Wyoming and other States, who, without sufficient money, go to California expecting to find employment. California Stakes have their own to care for, and it is unjust to add to the load they are already carrying. California is a beautiful place in which to live when we have the means to pay for the sunshine, but I imagine that even the sunshine did not bring great joy to a young couple who had not eaten for two or three days, and who made their wants known on the day their rent was due. Counties, outside the one in
which we have legal residence, are not responsible for our needs. Will you sisters impress upon the people of your communities to be quite sure there is employment in other places before leaving the County in which they reside.
MANY people from our community have moved to California and have established homes. Some of them have not affiliated with the Church, and it is difficult for the Stake and Ward Officers to locate them. If you know of any such person will you send word to the Stake President or the Bishop of the ward, who will be happy to contact the individual. A very splendid service is offered by Brother Homer Durham, of Los Angeles, who invites all Church members to visit the Deseret Club and become acquainted with local groups. Lessons: As you will be told in your Relief Society Magazine section this afternoon, the lessons for the next year will begin in the July number. This is to allow you sisters who want to begin your work in September to do so. It is agreeable with the General Board to have you begin in September and continue through until May, rather than to begin in October and close in June. We do ask, however, that the whole Stake has a uniform time of beginning and closing. Reports Received: We want to compliment you splendid women on the reports you have sent in. Just a short time ago the Work and Business Department wanted a questionnaire to go to all the Stakes to find out what your plans were for the Work and Business Meetings. I said to the Committee, "We will send it out, but it is not possible for them to get the report in time." It is amazing how many have come in. When we sent out the material
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
on Child Character Education the response was most gratifying. Dr. Cushing came to the office to express her appreciation for your fine work. At the Brigham Young University Leadership Week, Mrs. Hayes, a National Officer of Parent Teachers, said they never had such a response, they did not believe it was possible. Miss Scorup came from the Capitol to thank the Relief Society. We are thanking you, because it was you who did the work. It was very fine. Financial Report Given At Ward Conferences: In some of the Ward Conferences it is customary to report the financial condition of Relief Society. We feel that this is not the best thing to do. We do not want to hide any report. The Bishop and the Ward Clerk have access to our reports, but there are some people who feel if we have forty or fifty dollars in the treasury, we should give more generously in the Ward. Others may feel there is no need to make contributions. We think it is better not to report the amount on hand. The number of persons assisted may be reported, but of course using no names. Visiting Teachers: Reports indicate that the Visiting Teachers are doing better work. This is because of the help that is given in the Wards and Stakes. We would like to call your attention, however, to a report that in some of the Stakes the Visiting Teachers make their visits on Sunday. We much rather this would not be done. Sunday is a home day, and while more people may be in on that day, it breaks into the Sabbath. That is a family day, and it would be better not to have Visiting Teachers call on Sunday unless there is something very unusual, such as a message from the Bishop or Relief Society President. Employment Bureau: We have
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
at Headquarters of Relief Society a very fine Employment Bureau. Many girls, coming in from the country for employment, possibly because of limited funds, will stay at dangerous rooming houses overnight, and try to find employment the next day. If these girls would write to Sister Amy W. Evans, at General Board of Relief Society Headquarters, and tell her what their qualifications are, and what they would like to do, then let Sister Evans write to them and tell them when they can come in, it would save a great deal of expense, and more important than the expense, it would save many heartaches. These girls are usually fine, clean girls, but they are away from home and loved ones, and they sometimes do things for a little fling that they would not think of doing in their own homes. It is very seldom a girl can go out for a fling without heartaches after. If* these girls would get in touch with Sister Evans we could find them lodging in a good place while arrangement is being made for work. May Day Health Program: We have been called as a group to work with the May Day Health Program for Children. The programs are to be under the direction of the Parent Teachers. Most of our Relief Society women belong to Parent Teachers' organizations, but we are asking that all Relief Societies cooperate in this excellent movement. You will not be asked to supply funds, but anything you can do to encourage and cooperate in this splendid work will be appreciated. Relief Society Assistance In Church Security: For years the Relief Society has sewn, made quilts, clothing, and layettes for those who have needed these articles and did not know how to sew. We are going to change this method and assist the
sisters in doing the work themselves. In one of our Wards in Salt Lake, at the Work and Business Meeting, all of our fine Relief Society women were sewing on a layette, and the young mother—a young, able-bodied, strong, intelligent woman sat and held her hands, and her mother sat there and held her hands, and the Relief Society sewed. Going back in the history, we find the Relief Society sewed for the mother when her children were little, and if it goes on this way the Relief Society will be sewing for the grandchildren and _ great-grandchildren. We do not want to be hard. If there are mothers who are ill, or who go out to work, and have a hard time keeping up their work, of course we shall be happy to help them. There is not anything that will bring a person out of despair and some of the women have all the excuse in the world for being in despair, as quickly and as thoroughly as to create some beautiful, useful article. If the mothers will learn to make dresses for their children it will bring delight and happiness to them, and they will have the desire to do more.
WE are asking in each Ward of the Church, if you have a drive for used clothes, take out a few pieces that you know would be suitable for making over for these individual families. There will be much more of an incentive for the women to take care of clothes if they make them themselves, rather than having handed to them anything that happens to be on hand. This is not in conflict at all with the Church Security. The Church Security have their big splendid program, in which we are all united. For the past year we all gave every bit of help we could, and many of the women worked beyond their strength. As a result many of our
Ward Presidents are resigning, saying they cannot carry the load as they did last year. When anything new is begun, it takes effort, and we were happy to give the service. We want to continue doing anything the Church Security want us to do, but we hope it will not be necessary to sew day after day and send that sewing into storehouses, unless there is some special need. Our call now is to see that every woman who is able and strong enough to knit, to sew, or to use her hands in any useful way, be taught how to do something. This will give more encouragement to them than all the work others could do for them. We have said for years we want to administer to the strength, and not the weakness, of our people, and it is administering to their weakness to do anything for them that they can do for themselves. That is "Mormon" doctrine, and has been ever since the Church was organized. In canning fruit, instead of us going to the meeting house, or
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
our Relief Society room, and putting up fruit for our sisters' use, it would be better to have someone teach women to put up the fruit for their own needs. See, too, that those who need the fruit are supplied with bottles and sugar at the time the fruit is ready. The pride of having a dozen jars of peaches that she has put up herself will be a great stimulant to any woman. We want to lift our women up. They have had a hard time, and it is our pleasure to help them get the joy that comes through meeting their own problems. I pray that our Father in Heaven will bless you that you can interpret the needs of the people; that you can see where you can help in such a way that will add to the strength of those whom you serve. When the census is taken we want, to have our people make a better report than the people in the world, because we have had inspired leaders, who, for years, have been helping us.
ANNUAL REPORT Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
IT GIVES me great pleasure to give to you a very brief report of the Relief Society. This statement, as it is now presented, is a complete statement of the totals, as we have included the Stake Boards this year in our Statement of Receipts. This may seem, on the face of it, to change the report slightly, but you sisters will understand it when the details are given in the public statement. This represents the Missions, Stakes and Wards of the Relief Society: Total Balance on Hand January 1, 1936, $188,256.- 30; Total Receipts during 1936, $296,295.63; Total Balance on Hand and Receipts, $484,551.93; Paid for Charitable Purposes, $66,189.48; Total Disbursements, $280,916.50; Total Balance, December 31, 1936, $203,635.43; Total Assets, $1,003,- 820.70; Ward Conferences Held, 1,427; Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers, 986,687; Number of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound, 215,260. Membership in 1935, 72,- 093; in 1936, 73,062; an increase of 969. The Membership includes: Executive and Special Officers, 15,- 236; Visiting Teachers, 24,602; Other Members, 32,255. Average attendance in 1935, 32,335; 1936, 31,784; a decrease of 551. Paid for Charitable Purposes in 1935, $66,- 863.86; in 1936, $66,189.48, a decrease of $674.38.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Counselor Kate M. Barker
FOR some time the General Board has felt the need for some outlet for the handwork of our Relief Society women. They have looked forward to the time which seemed opportune for beginning this project. In our Church we have so many expert needlewomen. We felt that if the General Board could start a Woman's Exchange in Salt Lake City, where we might contact the tourists and sell this handwork, it might be a very great help to our people. It would give the mothers in the home an opportunity in their spare time for creating something beautiful, and also help to increase the family income. As Sister Robison has said, our Presiding Bishopric and General Authorities have been very much interested and very kind. They have given us the large room upstairs in the Bureau of Information. We are delighted with this because it is on the Temple Block, where every tourist who comes to Salt Lake goes. We hope to have things in readiness for this season's tourist trade. We have drawn up the following rules in regard to this. WOMAN'S EXCHANGE 1. Name—The organization shall be known as: MORMON HANDICRAFT Sponsored by L. D. S. Woman's Relief Society 2. A non-profit organization for the outlet of Handwork. 3. Membership — there may two types of membership: a. Stake Board or Ward Membership, when the proceeds go to the Stake Board or Ward organization. The price of membership is $1.00 per year. B. Individual Membership. The price of membership is 50c per year. 4, Twenty-five percent of the price of the article will be taken for. Overhead. This percent to be taken when the article is sold. 5. The Stake Work and Business Supervisor, with the Ward Work and Business Supervisors will constitute the Stake Committee to contact the women and pass upon the work to be sent in to assure the work to be of the highest standard of excellence. 6. Application for Membership must be made through the local Committee. This year this committee will seek out and invite expert needle women to participate. 7. When an article is sent in, the person contributing will give the cost of material used and what she considers a fair price for the article. 8. A Committee of the General Board, or ones chosen by the Board, will be the final judges of the articles to be featured. This Committee will also assume the responsibility of equalizing prices. 9. A Paid worker will have charge of the shop. 10. The General Board does not guarantee to sell articles submitted. The obligation they assume is proper care of the articles after they are received, insurance against fire and theft, exhibiting, trying to sell, and if not sold within a reasonable time to return the article to the owner. 11. We advise the insuring of all articles by the sender when mailing. 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE SPIRITUAL SIDE OF MUSIC Janet M. Thompson THERE is so much of beauty and inspiration in music let us provide a richer field for it to live in—a field where it can more fully develop the spiritual life—where it can more harmoniously speak to us—where it can more consistently help us. The importance of music in its application to the Relief Society program is deserving of thoughtful consideration. Music in any service should be the best circumstances will permit. In the process of elevating this art to higher levels certain standards should be observed. Various elements enter into the treatment of music which either build or unbuild the spirit of it. Definite and essential elements involved in our building program are: 1. The quality and character of music. 2. The ability and responsibility of the performer. 3. The attitude and cooperation of the congregation. The quality and character of music is a most vital element. There may be the finest of quality in what we choose to use but is it appropriate in character? Relief Society standards prescribe that music shall be appropriate for all occasions—that it shall be good music. Let us make our music two-fold in purpose—aim to touch the hearts and lives of our people—maintain the very highest ideals of music. Let us dignify it—make it worthy and effective, remembering always that nothing is perfect enough for the worship of God. The ability and responsibility of the performer involves another element. The charm of one who performs lies in her ability to select proper music—to render it in such a way that it can be interpreted and felt by the audience. Experience has proved that when either a voluntary or a song is selected at the moment it is to be used neither the composition nor the playing or singing of it is worthy of its true purpose. Our women have demonstrated that their ability to stimulate others to greater appreciation of music does not lie in some rare accomplishment, but rather in humble, sincere and earnest endeavor. It is genuine acknowledgement of responsibility and vision of possibilities that prepares one for intelligent performance of her duty. The attitude and cooperation of the congregation is another important element. Our songs, which for the most part are expressions of prayer, praise and thanksgiving, have been penned by men and women of superior faith and courage. Many of them have been written after great thought and sacrifice has been made. How often are these lovely songs just mechanically and _ passively sung? Do we respond to the spirit of the song when no emotion is stirred? Do we have full understanding of its meaning and significance—do we sing thinkingly—do we convey the message intended? If hymns speak to us of faith, let us express that faith in song. If they utter words of doctrine let us teach that doctrine through song. If they offer words of comfort and solace let us impart that message in song. Let us strive to improve the quality, the character and effectiveness of music. There is a great field for musical service—let us work for spiritual excellence in that field. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 309 LIBRARIES Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary F making many books there is no end," we read in Ecclesiastes. The collection of books, the author of which is the Human Race, is so vast that we do not know just how or when it started. We know we shall never see the end of it. It is one of the eternal verities of life, linking together the past, the present, and the future. All we know of the greatness of the past is revealed mainly through the libraries. One of the most important events in the history of the world was the invention of printing by means of movable type. The honor for this immense service to humanity goes to Johann Gutenberg of Mainz, Germany, who was born about 1400. For many centuries the art of reading and writing was a patrician one, enjoyed only by the Select few. To prepare books was an extremely expensive and laborious process. So printing was the greatest tool ever forged to aid the march of human progress toward the goal of complete social living. This invention was sanctified by use for the spiritual as well as the material welfare of mankind. Aristotle says, "All men by nature are actuated with the desire for knowledge." This desire is undoubtedly the incentive which has led the great nations of the world to collect extensive libraries, of which they should be extremely proud, provided their people use them. While the idea of libraries is as old as civilization, the free, public library is strictly modern. The idea followed public schools. Access to schools was free. Why not access to books? In half a century the free public library has emerged from nothingness, into an entirely accepted indispensable national institution. The Relief Society has always kept in step with the march of progress. Its members have been lovers of books. The idea of libraries in Wards and Stakes is not of recent origin. The slogan adopted some time ago has borne rich fruit. "The best reading for the largest number at the least cost," has resulted not merely in the collection of books to be placed somewhere and kept, but made a part of Relief Society activity, used, studied, digested. Of all the privileges we enjoy in this century of opportunity, there is none for which we ought to be more grateful than for the easy access to books. The usual method of our Heavenly Father in passing knowledge along is to endow His children with intelligence to search for it. One of our problems today in the multiplicity of books available, is, what books to read and how to read them. Here Relief Society can render a real service in literary guidance. Sociologists tell us that libraries are our cultural reservoirs. It is possible for us to have one such cultural reservoir in every Stake and Ward setup. It is not the great number of volumes nor the fine bindings, but the kind of books and the use to which they are put, that really counts. Much depends upon the librarian. She must have real enthusiasm for her calling. The good teacher does not teach subjects; she teaches her pupils. So the good librarian is not the mere custodian of the books. She is interested in women, and the guidance she can offer them, in awakening their minds, and stimulating their interest. The National Library As- 310 sociation does not hesitate to give the major portion of credit for the phenomenal success of its work, to efficient librarians. We can all do our bit in building libraries, by bringing to the center the books and periodicals that have been useful to us and encouraging our Sisters to raise the whole level of existence by coming to know life, through the minds of the great souls RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of earth. To find something in the spirit of the times with which one can be in harmony, is to be happy. Carlyle has wisely said that a collection of books is a real University. As we progress in our courses of study, we can create in all our organizations "a real University," a guide to youth, an entertainment for age, a source of real power to us all. DEPARTMENT MEETINGS Magazine DEPARTMENT Mary C. Kimball, Chairman WE deeply appreciate the earnest, efficient work of our Magazine Agents and the loyal support of our officers and teachers. We are grateful to our many subscribers for their support also. Last season was our banner year, when we had a subscription list of 41,500. We heartily thank those who have: made such a high list possible. This year we have a pamphlet of printed instructions. We hope our Agents and Officers will carefully read and reread them until the details are in their minds. This will result in fewer misunderstandings and fewer mistakes. We urge most strongly that records of all transactions relating to the Magazine be kept in each Ward and that the Stake Magazine Agent shall know the condition of each Ward in her Stake. Each Agent should be careful and accurate in sending in orders. The Magazine loses a great deal each year because many Agents fail to give the towns where the subscribers live and tell when the subscription should begin. Wise Agents will seek renewals before old subscriptions expire and will be on the alert during the entire year to get as many subscriptions as possible. The time of the Drive will not then be strenuous, but will be a closing up of the year's work, getting as many subscriptions as possible, and sending in the reports. Devices to increase the subscription list where necessary and where deemed advisable should be thought out early and worked to a successful issue. Each year Magazine gift subscriptions are increasing, and the last two or three years several have sent in money that subscriptions might go into the mission field. We hope all who reached over 75% last year will go still higher and that those who did not reach this mark will attain it this season. May 1937 far surpass 1936 in subscriptions received! SALESMANSHIP By John D. Spencer HE profession of Salesmanship embraces all of the other professions known in the field of endeavor. Outside of the field of salesmanship we are at a loss to know of a single occupation or activity or mode of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE living that is not encompassed by the title of "Salesmanship". One selects the doctor, lawyer, or minister because of the qualities of salesmanship which he possesses. The steps in acquiring this are: first, the Objective. We resolve to be someone in particular, someone out of the commonplace, out of the ordinary, so that people see in us something just a little above the mediocre, and that is a very fine objective, Second, the Slogan—'Do now, no matter how difficult, that which is right." Be discontented, not with what you have, but with what you are. Third, the Challenge. This is rather an uncomfortable challenge to confront one with—"'Am I the kind of salesman that I would buy the Relief Society Magazine from, and if not, why not?" We have before the class what we call a mirror chart, which indicates the negative and positive qualities that go to make a personality, and the students are asked to face that chart every day. Fourth, Definition. Salesmanship is the combination of qualities, both natural and acquired, in man which enables him, acting for himself or. As an agent, to negotiate the transfer of something of value for a consideration, on the basis that all parties to the transaction must be benefited. I rather like the Golden Rule element that there is a limitation on all forms of selling. There are certain processes, and we urge upon you the preparation of all these processes on the theory that this whole selling process is no stronger than its weakest link—appearance, your approach, the arrangement of your sales talk, the knowledge of your article, and a fine warning, this is my own message, knowledge of your article. Know all about it and vindicate the 311 charge you make for it by the things you know about it. Loyalty to your article, and that in its broadest scope, is your challenge. You owe something to the institution promoting this fine thing. As you make your talk listen and ask yourself, "Would this talk convert me to the purchase of this Magazine, and if not, why not?" There is treatment of competition, tactfulness, presentation, and get away. We have established in our class an Eleventh Commandment, “Thou shalt not be grouchy." I beg of you to weigh that and analyze it, and you will find it vindicated 365 days of the year. Good morning is our greeting. Make every morning a good morning. You are not properly dressed until you put ona smile. Was everyone happy when you left home this morning, and if not, were you the cause of the unhappiness? Remember self-complacency kills growth. It is very much easier for a fine salesmani to sell shady goods, than for a shady salesman to sell fine goods. It is said, and there is no guess work about the fact, 70% of the failures to sell are caused by negative personality, and the fault lies wholly within ourselves. Try to put your finger on the thing you could have said. Try to put yourself before the mirror, or the search light, and say "Something was wrong with this sale. It was'not my approach, there is nothing wrong with that, but there is something about me, what is it?" Do you ever stand aside and watch yourselves go by? Do you ever wonder what vibration people got when you said "Good Morning!" or the manner in which you shook hands, or the quality or naturalness of your smile? There is nothing in salesmanship that can be neglected. 312 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Tue BENEFIT OF THE MAGAZINE IN OUR STAKE Josephine Hanks, Union Stake Relief Society President O doubt all of you here present have, at some time, seen a canal with its network of arteries running out in every direction, carrying the life-giving water to the plants and vegetation in the farms and gardens. We can liken our Relief Society Magazine to just such a project. It, too, has a fountain head, and a network of arteries through which it is carried into thousands of homes, and through it comes the spiritual water of life, that which Jesus spoke of at the time He met the woman of Samaria at the well, and asked her for a drink. In Oregon, the rolling hills as well as the lowlands are farmed, and on these far-away farms we have a number of Latter-day Saint families, and the only source of contact these mothers have with the Society, is through the Relief Society Magazine, and when the rare opportunity comes, perhaps once or twice a year, when they can attend meetings, they do not come as strangers, but they are able to take an active part in the lesson discussion, and can talk on the many splendid things that are being accomplished by the Relief Society at home and abroad. Our Agents have been successful in placing the Magazine in a number of non-L. D. S. Homes. Through the faithful efforts of some of our Relief Society sisters, five of the mothers have been converted, and are now active members in the Church. In one of our Wards during the height of our so-called Depression, there were five men out of eightytwo families who had permanent work. The mothers sensed this condition, and they knew if they subscribed to the Magazine for the coming year, and paid their Annual Dues, it was up to them to do something about it. They got busy and put on two splendid entertainments for which they charged a small fee. They had them advertised in the other Wards, and invited their outside friends, and the results were very gratifying indeed. Next they made four beautiful quilts, and one of the mothers having a daughter living in Los Angeles, they disposed of these through her, and realized fifteen or twenty dollars apiece. After they had taken out enough for their Annual Dues and forty-five dollars for Magazine subscriptions, they had a sum left. This splendid piece of work was accomplished through united effort, determination and plenty of hard work. SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT Amy W. Evans, Chairman HE Quest For Security" offered a most stimulating general theme for this department. President Louise Y. Robison, who is a member of the Utah State Board of Public Welfare, spoke upon "Public Social Security". Mayola Rogers of the Relief Society General Welfare Department discussed “Security and Case Work for The Aged". Harold B. Lee, Chairman of the General Committee, completed the wellrounded program with a very interesting address on "Objectives of the Church Security Plan”. Of all the fears that trouble humanity perhaps the fear of poverty is the most prevalent. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Fortunately for us poverty and happiness are not incompatible; however, we associate closely poverty and misery. We have a great urge for economic security. This has been keenly realized during the past few years as so many have been denied the assurance of work sufficient to supply the bare necessities for existence. In order to provide safeguards against the major misfortunes of life, our Federal Government approved the Social Security Act on August 14, 1935. This Act provides for the following security measures: Unemployment Compensation, Old-Age Assistance and Old-Age Benefits, Security for Children, Aid to the Blind, Extension of Public Health Service, and Vocational Rehabilitation. The States accepting the provisions of this Act must meet the standards of the Federal Government before obtaining Federal funds. A brief explanation of this act may be obtained from your State Welfare Board or from the Social Security Board, Washington, D. C., Information Service, Circular No. 1. Much has been said about financial aid to the aged, but in order to assure a greater degree of happiness for our aged friends we must realize that more must be provided than the bare physical necessities of shelter, food and clothing. More often than not, the aged person needs special medical treatment which, in turn, should be adequately interpreted by one who understands the implications of the deteriorative diseases. 313 The aged person needs to be relieved of worries and fears which seem so simple to us and yet which loom so large in his life. Another great need of most old people is to have someone who can build them up in spirit by listening with genuine interest to recitals of past experiences. Many old people need someone who can restore their faith in youth so they will not feel as if they have been cast aside like "an old shoe". In other words old people need services which go beyond merely handing them a check every month—they need social service. Security for its members, both spiritual and temporal, has been one of the objectives of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from its organization. In order that individuals may gain economic security through their own efforts, and thus preserve their selfrespect and independence, it has been the policy of the Church to start industries, to encourage the development of land for farming and grazing, the raising of farm products and the use of the natural resources of the country. The building of homes, places of recreation and of worship has been a great activity of the Church which has furnished much employment. To meet the present situation of unemployment, the program of the Church is to intensify all these activities and also to create new resources for employment so that the members will still have the opportunity to obtain security through their own work. Ture Work anp Business DEPARTMENT Lalene H. Hart, Chairman PLANNING of 1937-38" was the subject presented by Nettie D. Bradford. The survey of the fine work accomplished was Church-wide in its scope and covered first—A Stake Program for Work and Busi- 314 ness for 1936-37, and second—a Statement of what had been the most successiul plan during the season. Many fine quotations from the reports were included, as suggestions for future plans: Lalene H. Hart presented an outline for a "Project For Every Relief Society Woman". The purpose of this is 'to help women to understand RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE aud to evaluate their own work and their problems". Vivian R. McConkie gave "Work and Business", first—As a Work Day, second—As a Social Day. Leda T. Jensen gave "Better Buymanship"'. Many constructive suggestions were advanced by the Sisters in their able discussions. Details of these will appear in the Magazine later. CHORISTERS' AND ORGANISTS' DEPARTMENT Janet M. Thompson, Chairman REAT numbers of eager choristers and organists met in the auditorium of the Bishops' Building Friday, April 2, to participate in department exercises. A program had been carefully prepared by the Music Committee, so that the problems which beset the choristers and organists might be discussed and helpful suggestions offered. Most of the stakes were represented and the attendance was very gratifying. "Vitalizing Relief Society Music" was the theme of the meeting. Professor Frank W. Asper spoke to the subject from the "Viewpoint of the Organist". His contribution to the success of the meeting was manifested by the interest given his suggestions, and the many questions that were asked were given answers that gave them information and confidence. Excerpts of this informational talk will appear later in the Magazine. Mrs. Charlotte O. Sackett gave to the group many helpful suggestions on proper breathing, tone production, rhythm, etc. Also songs for the year's work were presented, rehearsed, and helpful hints given for the perfecting of these beautiful chorals. The interest manifested, and the large attendance of these faithful choristers and organists are indications that music will rightfully take its place in the educational scheme of Relief Society work. We hail this awakening! ' The songs selected for 'study during the year are the following: "How Lovely are Thy Dwellings, O Lord." "Inflammatus." (Chorus only) "How Lovely Are Thy Messengers." "Crossing the Bar." "Holy Redeemer." "23rd Psalm." (The Lord Is My Shepherd) Helpful Suggestions to Choristers and Organists Always approach your work with a prayerful heart. Try to understand your relationship to the Relief Society meeting as a whole. Choristers and organists must be enthusiastic and carefully prepare their work for the month, if they expect the Wards to make the music a living, vital thing. The Ward Choristers and Organists should be conversant with the lesson work so that appropriate hymns and other songs will be chosen. The music prepares the setting for the meeting. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE The words of the hymns should be understood so that their spiritual meaning may impress every heart. This, in great measure, depends upon the chorister. She must be the magnet to draw from her singers the outpourings of the Spirit. The enjoyment she feels in Song will be contagious. Your job is an important one, not a small one. Be on time to play appropriate prelude music which has been selected and prepared beforehand, Exert every effort to make the music as effective as the other fine educational features. Increase your capabilities by constant study and practice. Always have an ideal in view. A chorister should cultivate pa- 315 tience, consideration for human faults, a sense of humor, adaptability to unpleasant occurrences. Real leadership is manifested in the splendid results of her work. It is not necessary to have a song practice in Union Meetings. This should be done in the music section. Help to elevate the standard of the music in your Ward and Stake. "It is our duty and privilege to honor God by bringing to Him only what is best." Our songs should be in very deed "prayers unto the Lord." The chorister works with the most wonderful musical instrument of all —the human voice. The opportunities of the one working with this instrument are unlimited. Tue SECRETARIES DEPARTMENT Julia A. F. Lund, Chairman HE Secretaries' Department was very interesting. The Value of Records and the importance of accuracy in keeping these was stressed by President Wilford A. Beesley in a most scholarly address which was the basis for an animated discussion in which all participated. RECORD BOOKS. 1937 is the last year for the use of the present Stake and Ward Record Books. Before compiling the new edition, the office is very anxious to have the Secretaries of Relief Society submit their suggestions, which will be given consideration. This should be done just as soon as possible, as the compilation of the new Record Books is to begin at once, and we are anxious to have the reaction of the sisters who use them. The services of an expert Accountant were secured to give advice in the matter. The gentleman in question is a Certified Public Accountant, also a Stake President. This rare combination afforded advice in the most modern and efficient methods of accounting together with an intimate knowledge of the Church set-up and standards. HISTORY AND MINUTES. The attention of the Secretaries is called especially to the history for which space is provided in the Record Book. It is understood that the Secretary of the Relief Society is also its historian. In this part should be given a record of what the organization has accomplished, and the place it has held in community influences and activities; also the record of outstanding personalities, or of events in which Relief Society has participated that have been of special significance to the organization. It is a wonderful page for future reference. The Minutes are a record of executive action and the regular routine 316 of Relief Society programmed work and its accomplishment. It is hoped that the Secretaries will have these up to date and completed before starting on the new book. ANNUAL REPORT. Particular attention was given to the auditing of the Annual Reports and the correcting of the balances. It is not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE possible for this office to go into every Ward. This is the fine service that is asked of the Stake Secretaries. They know their own Wards and can find the errors which throw the Stake reports out of balance. It is hoped the Stake Secretaries will be able to do this as a preparation for a correct report for the next year. First General Session THE LORD'S DAY By Jennie B. Knight "For the Lord is good; His mercy is everlasting and His truth endureth to all generations." EST we forget, during this period of our conference we are to consider the Sabbath or the Lord's day. What has He said concerning it? According to the Bible the first Sabbath was established by God Himself; celebrating the creation.— Genesis 20:58. "The heavens and the earth were finished and all the host of them. and He rested on the seventh day from all His work, and God blessed the Sabbath day and sanctified it." The Ten Commandments written by the hand of God on Sinai reveal His deep interest in the spiritual and physical welfare and happiness of His children. (See Exodus 20.) That the Israelites might be impressed with the sanctity of the Sabbath, during their travels in the wilderness, God sent no manna on that day but they were commanded to gather twice as much on the sixth as on any other day. Down through the corridors of time we find the prophets, Isaiah, Nehemiah, Ezekiel and others declaring the word of God in explicit instructions regarding His holy day. Through Ezekiel He made a covenant saying, "Hallow my Sabbaths; and they shall be a sign between me and you, that they may know that I am the Lord your God." Jesus honored the Sabbath day and proclaimed himself Lord of the Sabbath, emphasizing its blessedness when he proclaimed that the Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath. That Sabbath observance and partaking of the Lord's supper on that day was a custom of the Christian churches, is attested by the Apostles Mark, Luke, John and Paul. The benedictions of a sacred Sabbath were not withheld from the people of Book of Mormon days, that these benedictions are vouchsafed to all who obey the commandments of God is reiterated by Joseph Smith—Doctrine and Covenants, Section 59. "Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things. That thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer, and offer up thy sacraments upon My holy day. For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High. "Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE days and at all times, but remember that on this the Lord's day thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High confessing thy sins. "And on this day thou shalt do none other thing only let thy food be prepared, with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or 317 in other words, that thy joy may be full. And inasmuch as ye do these things with cheerful hearts and countenances the fullness of the earth is yours." That we may know thy truth, that endureth to all generations, "Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet, lest we forget, lest we forget." PHYSICAL VALUE OF A DAY OF REST By Beatrice F. Stevens THE Sabbath day was instituted much earlier than the time of Moses at Mount Sinai, but evidently the Israelites at that time needed to be forcefully reminded of this commandment. In our day there is serious need for bringing to mind the significance of this day, a need to remember blessings derived from its proper observance. While it brings definite obligations, it was never intended that the Lord's day be made burdensome, but rather to add joy and happiness to our lives. Immeasurable good comes from making it truly a day of worship and rest, and not the least of the benefits derived, are physical. All diligent members of our Church know that for them the Sabbath is not a day of rest in the sense of idleness, one with no responsibilities. Yet it should be and is for relaxation. There are many ways to receive physical refreshment. When the Lord asked that one-seventh of all time be set apart for rest and worship, He knew the needs of those ancient people, and foresaw what would be best for us today. He has given us much to help safeguard physical health in this age of speed and distracting conditions —our Word of Wisdom and our Day of Rest. There is nothing of greater importance to us as mothers than keeping in good health—so much of the well-being of those dearest to us depends upon that. To awaken on a Sabbath morning knowing it will be an exceptional, a very special day, the culmination of six days of wise planning, what a reassuring and restful experience. The relief from fatigue that comes from too constant performing of the same tasks, is most conducive to good health. Rest is not only a great step toward the cure of disease but an important aid in its prevention, both mental and physical. Because the nature of physical man is to deteriorate, a resting time is necessary to recreate and preserve our capabilities. There is much today that gives us concern as parents. Patience, sympathetic understanding and proper example will aid materially in solving our problems. Is it not of untold value for the father to have one day a week when he may draw closer to his family and enjoy the relaxation that comes from a more intimate and friendly contact? Being in church in the atmosphere of worship, brings peace. There, I for one, may find freedom from cares that weary and disturb my peace of mind. It is a good place to check on the past week's activities and discover mistakes, thereby gaining 318 strength and wisdom that may help toward improvement. Jesus said the Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath. The important thing is to use it wisely in order to receive the greatest blessings. To be the people the Lord would have us be, "a light set upon a hill," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE depends upon individual members of the Church. It should be the aim of each to perfect himself, spiritually, mentally and physically. What a wonderful opportunity the Sabbath day offers for these objectives! If we are attuned to the spirit of the day, we will "think the most, feel the noblest and act the best." EXAMPLE OF PARENTS, AS RELATED TO THE OBSERVANCE OF THE SABBATH DAY By Vivian R. McConkie T is written: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it." This is a challenge to the women of the Church, and they ought to respond according to Church standards, among which standards Sabbath Day observance is of major importance. "Training" implies conduct control, and not merely teaching moral codes. Parents who do not teach religion by example as well as by precept, and who do not train by restraints, when necessary, build foundations on the sand, and winds of skepticism may entice their children from truth. Faith and understanding must be developed, if the child knows that there is a God who rewards for well doing and who punishes for transgression. Without a knowledge of the gospel there is no security, and if parents fail to teach and to train their children in the Church, the sin will "be upon the heads of the parents," but the par-. Ents' suffering will not save the children. Divergent opinions prevail as to precepts because of lack of scriptural understanding. Private interpretations stimulate false standards and invite senseless yieldings to unsound philosophies. Mothers ought to restrain and to direct during maturity of reasoning faculties. Habitual repetition makes acts agreeable, and it is shameful to permit destructive repetitions in children of tender years, without restraint. Intelligent direction of desires is surely as important as going to school on time, yet we unhesitatingly require that. With relation to the Sabbath, parents should first know what ought to be done on that day, and then should adjust their ideals to conform to Church standards, rather than to shape Church standards to their ideals. If parents would study the scriptures more and more confusion as to standards would grow less and less, Objective study is a high form of learning. It will help one to establish purposive co-ordinated activity between mind and body Understand the nature of your children and know your own ideals are patterned after the divine will, then study the means of their achievement. Never relax your efforts until mental development makes safe election possible. Control the child's acts and direct his thoughts and ambitions until he acquires self direction and judgment. When his reasoning powers mature he will see the wisdom of imposed restrictions. Watch their spiritual training and development as you do their daily diet, and habits of cleanliness and their mental and physical RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE progress. Your child will be happiest If you do not require him to decide whether he will obey the law. During the formative period the parents' standards and examples are the child's ideals. Therefore, the parent ought never to sin even though others are sinning, or to be little even though hedged in by little 319 people, or to lower himself to match lower standards, or to do as Romans do (if evil) because he is in Rome. Elect the good. There is no middle ground. Hear Joshua: "And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve,... But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." SACRAMENT—PHYSICAL ASPECT By Counselor Kate M. Barker HE Lord, through the Prophet Haggai, rebuked His people for their neglect of the temple at Jerusalem. Because of their negligence they had lost the blessing of the Spirit of the Lord. But after the people had been stirred to a new loyalty and devotion, and the temple had been rebuilt, having the best they had to offer put into it, the Lord spoke again, saying: "I am with you." He knew that the care they took of the places of worship was indicative of the depth of their love of the Gospel. In partaking of the Sacrament we have a glorious privilege of atuning our spirits with the Spirit of our Heavenly Father. Our spirits are sensitive to physical surroundings, and should not be disturbed by lack of care in the physical aspect of the Sacrament Service. I wonder if, as a Relief Society organization, we could not cooperate with our Bishops by taking the responsibility of having the Sacrament cloth freshly washed and ironed for every service! Our Father in Heaven expects us to profit by the light He has given us, and in this day we know about germs. We could help set the standard in our Wards that the Sacrament glasses be sterilized after each service, so that when we partake of the Sacrament we will not be wondering if the glasses are sanitary—that in passing the Sacrament to another we are all careful about our hands, gloves, coat sleeves, that we do not do anything which detracts our neighbor's mind from the sacredness of the ordinance. We are the mothers of the boys who pass the Sacrament. So much of what the boy feels is of most importance depends upon what the parent feels is important. When our children graduate from school we, by our very attitude of pride, by our attendance, by our interest in their personal appearance, make them feel how proud we are, and the importance of the occasion. Can we not see what we are doing to our boys when we pay less attention when they are asked to pass the Sacrament? Let us go to Church with them, make them feel that we are so proud of the honor which has come to them. Let us impress upon them the sacredness of the Sacrament, that this is a very special occasion, that they must take particular care of their personal appearance, that hands and nails must be immaculate, that this is one of the greatest services they will ever have the opportunity to perform. Could we not have a white shirt for them, which we take care to have freshly laundered, and see that every boy has such a shirt? 320 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE COVENANTS OF THE DAY By Leda T. Jensen FROM the New Testament, the Book of Mormon, and the Doctrine and Covenants, we have definite and ample proof that our Savior, the Redeemer of mankind, made the partaking of the sacrament a vital and necessary part of the spiritual life of his followers in both the meridian of time and in this dispensation. The sacred covenant with its attendant blessing which we repeat as we consecrate the emblems of the broken body and the spilt blood of the Lord has been revealed to the Latter-day Saints so that we have the exact words of the covenant recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants. As a witness to this sacred scripture, we have the same blessings of consecration recorded by Moroni in the Book of Mormon. The sacrament is administered to commemorate the atonement of the Lord Jesus as consummated in His agony and death. Each time we partake of the sacred emblems we manifest before the Father that we do remember His Son, and by the act of partaking of the bread and the cup, we make solemn covenant that we do take upon us the name of our Redeemer, and make a pledge and an agreement that we will keep his commandments, and we do this in the hope that we may have his Spirit to be with us. No member of the Church who refuses to observe this sacred ordinance can retain the inspiration and guidance of the Holy Ghost. If we really realized and felt the need of spiritual food for growth, we would be present at the appointed place where this may be and is administered. Why do we not all come? Is it because we do not feel ourselves worthy to partake, or is it because we do not appreciate the reason and significance for partaking? If we are properly instructed we know that it is not our privilege to partake of the emblems in sin and transgression. The one thing that would make for the safety of every man and woman would be to appear at the sacrament table every Sabbath. We would not go so far astray in one week that we could not rectify the wrong we have done. The weekly observance of this ordinance would help us to be worthy to partake. The Father looked on with great grief and agony at the earthly sufferings of His Son, but His love for us made it possible for Him to give the Savior to us, the Redeemer of the world. If we knew what it cost our Father to give us His Son, if we realized how essential the sacrifice made by Jesus is to us, we would always be present at the sacrament table to honor the gift that has come to us. As the Standard Bearers of the Church, we need the sacrament. We need to renew our covenants every week. We need the Spirit of the Lord so we may be able to keep ourselves unspotted from the sins of the world, from Sabbath to Sabbath, and some day be worthy to eat and drink with our Savior, in His Father's kingdom. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 321 THE SACRAMENT MEETING BLESSES THE WHOLE FAMILY By Rae Barlow Barker JESUS could foresee the complications, confusion, and uncertainty of life in our day. He knew we would need the blessings He had promised if we observed His sacrament: peace, strength in right doing, assurance of His power, "His Spirit to be with us." If we succeed in obtaining these blessings for the whole family, we must do more than wish and hope. The desired results will need the best efforts of both the home and the church. The guiding hand of an ingenious, planning parent will be needed which can bring the family together to enjoy varied activities. Then, going to sacrament meeting together will more naturally follow. If there is a spirit of tolerance in the home, and a genuine display of fellowship in our sacrament meeting, many who now feel unwanted may be encouraged to be with us. An old philosopher claimed there were three roads to accomplishment: inspiration, investigation, and application. That parent, and we might also add that speaker, can best inspire who himself has been inspired. Investigation should include more than a study of the gospel. It might stand us in hand to know what our children's interests are. If we stand on common ground with them in our thinking, it will be much easier to direct their activities on the Sabbath day. Application will demand all the tact, faith, and intelligent planning at our command. A well-planned work-week, with opportunity for recreation, is important. One mother knew the secret of forming habits. She often correlated her children's happy experiences with their Sabbath meeting, saying, while they were still enjoying a particular situation, "There are many ways of displaying gratitude for these good things. One way is to go with thankful hearts to partake of the sacrament." That family regularly enjoys the benefits of the sacrament meeting. After Jesus administered the Last Supper to the disciples, He said, "If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them." Knowledge is a personal thing. As individuals and parents we may know that the benefits of the sacrament service are realities. It does not follow, however, that the members of our families possess the same knowledge. But with faith, study, and activity we can each know. We have a real challenge to stimulate those near us to find out for themselves if the promises hold good. Can we meet the challenge? Not wholly within the family. The sacrament meeting itself has a responsibility—also the individual. Competitive interests make it necessary that we are ever on the alert to improve the quality of our meetings. Each of us can contribute to the sacrament service by his presence if he goes in the spirit of worship. With the sacrament, as with the radio, we have to be where the instrument is and be "tuned in" if we want to get the message, The Book of Mormon promises that if we ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, He will manifest the truth to us. Can we stimulate our families to apply a similar test to the worth of the sacrament meeting? Can we open to them the vision that by mutual participation our lives are enriched? "If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them." 322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE following are the organizations and reorganizations since October Conference. ORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Appointed President Feb., 1937 Chicago Lois E. Astin REORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Appointed President Feb., 1937 Cassia Effie H. Walker Annie M, Mercer Nov., 1936 Duchesne Evelyn C. Moffitt Margaret M. Pace (deceased) Jan., 1937 Ogden Ida M. Treseder Cora S. Jenkins Nov., 1936 Rigby Lettie E. Call Phoebe Gordon (deceased) Oct., 1936 Moroni Mt. Ogden Almira C. Rich Ethel B. Andrew Mar., 1937 Oquirrh Phoebe Ridd Ella P. Bennion Feb., 1937 Curlew Mary J. Pixton Anna S. Blackham (deceased) Jan., 1937 West Jordan Lillian Ivory Rebecca N. Cutler (deceased) Dennis A. Larkin Evelyn Neilsen The Relief Society organization felt greatly honored by the presence of Sister Luacine S. Clark, who added her expressions of appreciation and her encouragement to the sisters in their work. Second General Session REPORT ON EUROPEAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETIES Emily T. Merrill, Former President IN the European Missions four Conferences are held each year. Two are devoted to the Priesthood activities, the other two are auxiliary conference-conventions, in which the auxiliaries combine, perhaps the Relief Society and Sunday School, or the Relief Society and Primary. These conferences begin on Saturday evening, usually with a social meeting, and three meetings on Sunday are devoted to conference work. The home group plan, adopted in the European Mission wherever possible, has given increased responsibility to the local saints, the priesthood and members of the Church. According to this plan, the districts and branches are patterned after the Stakes and Wards of the Church here in the States, and the District Presidencies and the Branch Presidencies are local members. This has released the Elders from much of the work which they had to do in presiding over these units of the Church, and has given them much more time for proselyting activities. It has also increased the opportunity of the local saints for activity, and that has had splendid results. We know that we gain through activity, and we enjoy our membership in the Church better when we are active. In the Missions the auxiliary organizations are supervised by a Mission Board, with a minimum of four members—Presidency and Secretary. The districts have supervisors and the branches have such officers and teachers as circumstances will permit. More teachers could be used, but there is always a shortage of suitable leadership. Where there is a good Relief Society there will be a live, active branch. Relief Society is the mainstay of the Branch and the righthand of the Branch President.. Our Branches for the most part are small, and therefore our Relief Society groups are small. The membership is scattered over a great area, and for the most part they are poor people. Transportation is quite an item in their limited budget. When they come to the meetings on Sunday they feel that is all they can afford. In a number of the missions where this scattered membership exists, the sisters meet on Sunday, while the Priesthood are gathered in their meetings. There are a great many older sisters who are timid and hesitate to go out in the evening. These meet in the afternoon, and the younger sisters who are engaged during the day meet in the evening. There is no uniformity as to day or hour, but it was felt advisable to hold these meetings when as many as possible of these sisters could benefit by the wonderful work done by the Relief Society. The sisters do enjoy the lesson material which the General Board provides. Special attention has been given to the preparation of these lessons, in order to meet the needs and conditions of the different missions. You know all of the lessons must be translated into a foreign language, and sometimes books from 323 which the lesson material is prepared are not available in these foreign languages. Special lessons in social service work have been written, and literary lessons taken from the literature of these particular countries; the German literary lessons from German literature, and the French from French, and so on. Much thought has been given to this, and the mission workers and mission authorities are certainly very grateful for this wonderful service. Many of our devoted members are called upon to make sacrifices in a financial and social way because of their membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but they make these gladly and willingly because of the abundance and richness of life that has come to them because of their faith and membership in the Church. No better way could we all serve and preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ than in our way of living, showing the spirit of true brotherhood and sisterhood. It seems to me what the world needs today more than anything else is a demonstration of Christianity in action. Since the main purpose of Relief Society has always been to render service, we have called upon the sisters over there to do some special work. You know when you want something well done, you call on the sisters to do it. At the Mission Presidents' Conference held in June, 1935, in Liege, Belgium, the Presidents decided to ask the Relief Society sisters to organize a Home and Neighborhood Primary. This effort has been crowned with success in many ways. We had to take the outstanding leadership to do this, but other sisters of the groups were called forward to learn to be leaders in our Relief Societies. These Home and Neighborhood Primaries all had enrolled children of non-members; the sisters became acquainted with the mothers of these children and entered the homes and had an opportunity to leave a message. Many of these mothers became interested enough to come to Church and to Relief Society meetings, and some joined the Church. A great number of the children who were contacted are now enrolled in our Sunday Schools. The benefit of this is, that all those who were contacted heard the message of the restored Gospel. The seed was sown—who knows what the harvest may be! We might not see, but some day this message will come back to them. The growth of the Church on the outside is very slow, but there is growth from within. We can only hold the children and the young people of our members through our organization work. The Relief Society sisters are outstanding leaders in the Gleaner, Sunday School and other organizations. Those of you who have sons and daughters laboring in these foreign missions I am sure would like to hear just a few words about the mission authorities, especially the mission mothers. These are set apart as consulting advisors to all the women's organizations, and are selected as president of the Relief Society, or the Primary or the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, whichever organization needs them most, or the one in which work they are most familiar. In addition to these duties, all the material used in the foreign mission needs to be translated, and adapted to the country, and this is the work of the mission mothers. They have a family also which needs the supervision and the care of a mother just as if they were living here, and the family has grown tremendously. All the missionaries, your sons and daughters, are members of the Mission President's family, and that is a great responsibility. Many of these young people have never been away from home, they are in strange lands, among strange conditions and people. Is it any wonder that they become homesick and disheartened? And so the Mission President and his wife encourage them, cheer them up, advise them, stand by them, pray for them as they would for their own children. I think no parents could be more concerned with the health and welfare of these missionaries than are the mission parents. ADDRESS By Counselor Kate M. Barker WE all appreciate life and opportunity. We are thankful we were born in this wonderful age. But great blessings and opportunities mean great responsibility. Our Father in Heaven is watching over the earth and has a glorious plan of establishing the Kingdom of God on earth. He also has a general plan for each of His children, and is depending on each of us to help further the Gospel plan. If we appreciate this, can we do less than put our best effort into the work? Can ourstandards be too high? Jesus said, "He who is not for me is against me." I think He meant actively for, and that inasmuch as we are passive, think superficially, inasmuch as we fail to put enough effort and time into our thinking and doing, so that we are thinking and acting straight and honest, inasmuch as we fail to put our heart and soul into the work RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE just so much are we against Him. But we can only be sure we are solving our problems in the right way if we have the help of our Father in Heaven. He has said "Look unto me in every thought, doubt not, fear not." But "There is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of the world upon which all blessings are predicated." We have been given very definite laws governing prayer. We must ask in faith. Faith does not come without effort—waiting until the moment of need and saying, "I will have faith." Faith comes through obedience. Our prayers must be sincere. They are sincere when we put forth our best efforts and then humbly ask for guidance or confirmation. When Oliver Cowdery wished to translate a part of the Book of Mormon he failed to receive the necessary inspiration, and the Lord said to him: "Behold you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you when you took no thought save it was to ask me." There is a 325 difference between asking our Father in Heaven to bless the poor, and in asking that we may see the needs and help to bring the blessing. Let us pray for our Church leaders, but let us also give our Father in Heaven the assurance that if He will inspire our leaders we will put forth our best effort to follow their guidance. The Lord has also said, "Pray in your families." Family prayer will do much to keep the family close together. Praying together does something to people. But there is a difference between praying and saying our prayers. Family prayers must never become routine. Let us show our children what prayer means to us. When Jesus was with His disciples He received so much help and comfort from prayer that they said, "Lord teach us to pray." Let our prayers be that we may have new insight, and new unselfishness that we may not disappoint our Father in Heaven in the tasks He has given us to perform. President Grant's address and that of Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon will appear in a later issue of the magazine. ADDRESS By President Louise Y. Robison WE have been greatly blessed during our two days' Conference. We are grateful to our Heavenly Father that so many of our Sisters have been in attendance, and especially are we thankful for the outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord which has been in our meetings. The six months since our Relief Society Conference in October have been very busy months. Conference-conventions were held in many Stakes in October, November, and in the early part of December. Reports of the excellent work of Relief Society brought back by the General Board Members were most gratifying. Sister Lyman, now President of Relief Societies of the European Mission, attended the International Council of Women in Dubrovnik, Yugoslavia, representing the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and Relief Society and as a Delegate from the United States Council of Women. We have kept in touch with all the Mission Relief Societies through a monthly Bulletin, which has been greatly appreciated. In almost every letter from our Mission Presidents word comes of the benefit of these messages. Before Christmas we sent a Bulletin to all Relief Societies urging mothers not to buy toy fire-arms for their children. We have had favorable comment on this movement in many Eastern newspapers as well as those published at home. We are deeply interested in alcohol education and have purchased a moving picture film entitled "The Beneficent Reprobate", which is a powerful lesson on the injurious effects of alcohol in the body and also the benefit of alcohol in industry. Through the cooperation of the General Boards of Sunday School, the Mutual, and the Primary, this has had a showing to a vast number of people. We are indebted to Brother Hamer Reiser of the Sunday School Board and Brother Orson Goddard for exhibiting this picture. We hope to create interest in having alcohol education taught in schools. Will you Sisters take this matter up with your School Boards and have the children and young people taught what alcohol is and what alcohol does? We are delighted with the work of our. Magazine Agents. There are 220 Wards which have reached 100% subscribers. We are deeply interested in the type of radio and moving picture programs which our children hear and see. A listening adult is passive but children absorb wild programs and live them. A friend of mine has a young son who has been listening to one of the programs which tell most vividly the methods used in killing people. This mother was shocked when, a few weeks ago, this very young son said, "The kidnaper of the Matson boy did his work all wrong. Now I would have done so-and-so." Broadcasting and moving RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE picture companies are eager to present the type of program which the people wish. If all mothers would take the pains to know what children hear and see, then write these companies expressing appreciation for suitable programs and also telling why others are objectionable, we would have more wholesome entertainment. I had the privilege of attending the National Council of Women in New York, in December, where an excellent forum was held. Many of the subjects can be carried into our organization with profit. For instance, Mr. Ralph Borsodi, who has made a study of the subject over many years, gave us some information on the value of good housekeeping. Mr. Borsodi claims that the profession of housekeeper is the most valuable of all professions and economically of great importance. That women who make homes—rear and teach children—who direct the educational and spiritual activities of the family and who spend the family income wisely—are certainly not inferior to women who earn money in the business or professional world. Discussing this subject, we wonder why so many of our Latter-day Saint girls choose almost any sort of employment rather than house work, and more disturbing still is the knowledge that many of those who accept such a position are frequently poorly prepared. Some do not even know how to make good bread, and sewing is almost a lost art. Referring again to the subjects discussed at the National Council under the title "Education for Marriage", Dr.. Parker said, "There is no avenue which people are entering for which persons are so poorly prepared as marriage and the responsibility of rearing a family." If this is true, it is especially serious for Latter-day RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Saints, for we know that the family is not a temporary group, but should and does continue throughout eternity. Are Relief Society mothers preparing their children—sons as well as daughters—for this most important undertaking? I was in conversation with a man who, a few years ago, was manager of a store in a mining community. He stated that it was the custom for miners to run charge accounts at the store. A number of these miners received the same amount of wages, but the difference in the manner of spending was unbelievable. As a result some would be constantly in debt, while the thoughtful, well-trained families would have a surplus. Can one wonder why, when one of these women who had a family of growing children, daily bought five or six loaves of bread and two dozen cookies? At the average price of ten cents a loaf, the bread bill would be $15 a month. Flour may be more expensive now, but not long ago a good housekeeper told me that she could make 40 loaves of bread out of a dollar's worth of flour. You who have access to the April copy of the Readers Digest, read an article by Kathleen Norris— "A Plea for Less 'Happy' Talk": Under consumers department, the slogan "Know what you want—buy what you ask for" brought out interesting information. We are studying this in our Relief Society in order to know what material will give the greatest service and the most pleasure. Can there be more worthwhile projects than these I have just men- 327 tioned, for us to consider in our homes and in the Relief Society? In almost every Ward there are women who are bewildered with the responsibilities of home, because they do not know how to meet the situation. For years Relief Society women have been making quilts and clothing for women who do not know how to sew; now we want to help them find happiness in sewing for their own children. I hope all women will cooperate. McDonald says, "To have what we want is riches, but to be able to do without is power." The story is told that the servant of the Grail, in the dawn that preceded the coming of Parsifal, aroused the young men about him with the stirring cry—'Hark to the trumpets! Come, let us thank our God that we have the power to hear the call of life and the power to answer as the duty calls." If we wish to have "the power to answer as duty calls" the privilege is ours. Our Father answers earnest prayers of women today as He ever has done. But it is not enough to know, we must learn to act on what we know. Let us return to our homes with the earnest desire to meet life courageously. Let us develop within our own lives those virtues which will give us the power to help others to live more abundantly. Our Church offers us the opportunity—Relief Society is the medium through which we may develop the finest attributes of life. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES ROBISON - AMY BROWN LYMAN - -. KATE M. BARKER - -: -. JULIA A. F. LUND:. Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD President - - - - First Counselor: - Second Counselor - " General Secretary and Treasurer Jennie B, Knight Elise B, Alder Belle S. Spafford Emma A, Empey Inez K. Allen Donna Durrant Sorensen Annie Wells Cannon Ida P. Beal Vivian R. McConkie Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C, Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Editor - - - - - Manager - - - Assistant Manager - Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vol. XXIV MAY, 1937 No.5 Editorials Memorial Day IT IS a beautiful thing for the living to think in loving appreciation of the dead. Calling to mind their virtues helps to strengthen the virtues of those who remember. People shrink from oblivion; they like not only a personal immortality but also to have so lived and achieved that those after them hold them in reverence, their achievements in honor, Memorial Day had its origin when two years after the Civil War the women of Columbus, Mississippi strewed flowers alike on the graves of the Confederate and of the National soldiers. So moved was Francis Miles Finch that he wrote his beautiful lyric "The Blue and the Gray," which has become the credo of the day. No practical results came from this incident until May, 1868, when Adjutant-General N. P. Chipman suggested to the National Commander John A. Logan of the Grand Army of the Republic that their organization should inaugurate the custom of spreading flowers over the graves of Union soldiers at some specified time. Thereupon General Logan issued an order naming the 30th day of May, 1868, "for the purpose of strewing with flowers or otherwise decorating the graves of comrades who died defending their country during the late rebellion, and whose bodies now lie in almost every city, village, or hamlet churchyard in the land. * * * It is the purpose of the commander-in-chief to inaugurate this observance with the hope that it will be kept up from year to year while a survivor of the war remains to honor the memory of the departed." Since then Memorial Day has become a holy day. Not only are the graves of soldiers decorated but friends and relatives go to "God's Acre" with flowers to pay tribute to those they loved in life and love in death. EDITORIALS 329 Tithing IT has come to be the custom in the Church to feature the subject of tithing during the month of May. The call is "Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." How richly blessed those have been who have observed this law. One of the great battles all have to fight is against selfishness and those who pay tithing become less selfish, learn to give joyously, and learn to practice thrift and economy. It brings happiness to them to do with less that the Church may be built up. Tithing helps the one who pays it to learn to love the Father, his children and his work more and more. Reception in Honor of President Brigham Young ON Tuesday evening, June 1, 1937, in the room adjoining the historic Lion House on the east, which was originally used by President Brigham Young as his office, will be held a formal reception from 7 to 10 p. M. When the public is invited to come and pay respects to the memory of this great colonizer. In the receiving line will be the officers of the John Young Family Association, J. Don Carlos Young, only living son of President Young, and the following daughters of President Young: Clarissa (Clint) Y. Spencer, Ruth Y. Healy, Mabel Y. Sanborn, and Fannie V. Y. Clayton. Next in line will stand the L. D. S. Church Presidency, followed by His Excellency, the Governor, His Honor, the Mayor, and presidents of the State organizations of the Sons and Daughters of the Utah Pioneers. After passing the receiving line the guests will be invited to go to the Lion House where members of the Sons and Daughters organizations of the Utah Pioneers will conduct them through the various rooms of this historic Pioneer home. While the family for many years has celebrated President Young's birthday in family reunions, this is the first formal reception to be given. It is intended that it shall be repeated on each anniversary, so that all who desire may participate in paying respect to the memory of this great pioneer. Dr. Joseph T. Kingsbury DR. JOSEPH T. KINGSBURY, President Emeritus of the University of Utah, passed away April 10, 1937. For nearly sixty years he was associated with the University— a longer service than that of any other of his associates. He joined the institution in 1878 when there were only three teachers. He served as Instructor, Professor, Acting President, Vice-President, and President, and since 1916 as President Emeritus. As a tribute to his splendid service Kingsbury Hall was named in his honor. President Kingsbury was faithful to every trust. He was honest, sincere, mild, gentle, yet firm and un- 330 yielding when matters of principle were concerned. He was ever kind, considerate, thoughtful, a lover of peace and harmony. He had a philosophical turn of mind, his decisions being reached after careful study and Lillie T. LILLIE T. FREEZE, one of the well known and greatly loved women of the Church, passed away March 23 at the age of eighty-one. Three of her four children survive, a son and two gifted, fine daughters who lovingly ministered to her. During her long life she has played many parts. When but four she appeared in dramatics. As a young woman she assisted her father and brothers in making a garden. Later she carried sacks of wheat that she had gleaned from Forest Dale to her home on First South and Tenth East Street. She assisted her father in constructing a rock house, carrying rocks and water up a ladder to the second story. Later she worked in a candy store and factory to secure means to enable her to attend school. For fifty years she served as a member of the General Board of the Primary Association, and for fifteen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE thinking the subject through. Serene, stable, a man of strong character and sound judgment, he moved through life shedding a beneficent influence on those with whom he mingled. Freeze years as a member of the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, holding both offices at the same time. She traveled extensively and did much writing. Later she served as President of the Relief Society at Ocean Park for two years, was Counselor for two years, and for four years was a member of the California Relief Society Mission Board. Although she endured great physical suffering for many years, she was ever sweet, cheerful, interested in people, causes and events, and has brought sunshine and encouragement wherever she has been. She deeply appreciated lovely poems and fine prose and was wont to clip extensively. Then when she thought a certain poem or thought would bless a friend, she sent it to her. In her life she exemplified how beautiful a thing it is to suffer and be strong. A MOTHER'S OPPORTUNITY WHAT gratitude fills a mother's heart when her son is ordained a Deacon. If she has been wise, she has studied, thought and prayed that she might herself realize and then lead her son to sense the wonder and the power and the glory of receiving power delegated from God. She will endeavor to see that he magnifies his calling, faithfully fulfills his obligations and does to the best of his ability every duty connected with this office. Thus admonished by his mother a boy should be outstanding in his quorum. Motherhood For gift of Motherhood, dear Lord, We give Thee thanks to-day, For all the joys and all the cares It brings to bless our way. For sacred hours when light of life Burns dimly, while Thy power A hallowed radiance sheds around To bless our travail hour. For taste of life's most poignant joy— For strength to bear life's sorrow— We thank Thee Lord, and pray for grace To meet each fair to-morrow. Love's magic weaves a mystic spell More sweet than many others, When first we join our hands with Thine And thus become—Thy. Mothers. Magdalene C. Stephens (A 'Singing Mother") A Wish And A Promise TO LOUIE WALSH DAVIES* By Gladys Davies Ellis How I wish I could make a song for you, Low,. And soft, and sweet. But, alas, no song that I can write Ever seems complete. Not even the melody played on the harp Can take the place of the magic Of you in my heart. I seem to see your lovely face In every movement of the throng, I see your sweetness and your grace In every flower and every song. The only song I can write for you Is a song of sweet similitude. And so I will, for your dear sake, All shining and lovely prove, I'm just an ordinary girl transformed Made beautiful because of your love, MY MOTHER. Louise Walsh Davies has not only been a loving mother to five children, but she has given most devoted service to the Church for over forty years. She was an organist in the Twenty-first Ward at the age of fourteen, and for forty years served that Ward and the Twenty-seventh Ward, not only as ward organist, but as organist in many of the organizations. She was also President of the Mutual for years in the Twenty-seventh Ward. She has been the organist in the Salt Lake Temple for thirty years. She has never been tardy nor absent except when ill or out of the City. Surely this is a record to be proud of. "LOOK at the CONSERVADOR" on this new 1937 FAIRBANKS-MORSE REFRIGERATOR The "conservador," as illustrated, holds all the foods you want to get at in a hurry! It has been declared by leading and engi "AS THE MOST SENSATIONAL REFRIGERATOR ACHIEVEMENT IN 5 YEARS! $129.50 2 YEARS TO PAY! SUPPLEMENT Complete Cleaning your teaching aids. Standard Church Works Supplemental Texts Bible Dictionaries Charts, maps, pictures, etc. Positive Moth Sprayer Powerful Hand Cleaner $56.95 Value NOW $39.95 and your old cleaner Headquarters for all L. D. S. Literature. DESERET BOOK COMPANY Salt Lake City 175 East Broadway Was. 1448 Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine YOUR CLASS STUDY Supplement and vitalize your Relief Society class-work with 44 East South Temple ROYAL Outfit Cleaner WESTERN ROYAL VACUUM CLEANER CO, YOUTH Is the Time for VOCATIONAL PREPARATION Its golden hours, wisely invested, will yield rich returns throughout life. The L. D. S. Business College is dedicated to the service of ambitious young men and women Let us tell you about opportunities for vocational training at the L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City Wasatch 1812 All the details of apparel, stationery, etc., in her great adventure are of the utmost importance. Correctness and smartness are our watchwords in Wedding Stationery.. See our smart new line. Prices $7.00 And up for 100 Wedding Invitations or Announcements. The Deseret News Press 29 Richards St. Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine In Praise of Mothers Nothing can take the place of a mother's care; her loving arms enfold and protect from babyhood to maturity. As Mother's Day comes, we gratefully join in the universal tribute to Motherhood. And in the interest of more thoughtful consideration for mothers, we ask you fathers a question: Have you made provision that, in the event of your death or disability, the mother of your children will be able to raise her family in comfort and security? Have you done a father's part to guarantee them freedom from want? Life insurance is the one certain way to assure for a mother the means of carrying on alone. What more fitting observance of Mother's Day than to provide her with the security of planned life insurance protection? Call your local Beneficial agent today and ask him to help you plan an insurance program in this strong company. HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City, UTAH HEBER J, GRANT, PRESIDENT trust Bldg., Phoenix, Ariz.; R. F. Cottle, 420 D. Greenwood, 208-11 Jennie Rogers Bldg., The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE IT'S HERE... TODAY! AMAZING NEW INVENTION FOR HARD OF HEARING Eyeglasses for Ears! The NEW HOME in today and have a scientific fitting of the new Sonotone audicle by means of the AUDIOSCOPE, an absolutely new technique in hearing correction. Learn without cost or obligation how well you can hear with this modern equivalent of eyeglasses for impaired hearing and how conveniently you can wear it, or write for our booklet—The Twin Senses. SONOTONE UTAH CO. 603 Boston Building Salt Lake City—Wasatch 3811 Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices @ GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p, m. Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Good Foods CHEAP It is our custom to pass on to our customers and friends all savings resulting from WHAT TO BUY—WHERE TO BUY OR WHAT PRICE TO PAY—GO TO AN O. P. SKAGGS SYSTEM STORE. O. P. SKAGGS 7000 "A Surety of Purity' Service Above All SALT LAKE — PROVO — OGDEN — PRICE — PAYSON — MANTI DESERET MORTUARY CO. CRYSTAL PALACE Markets 720, lst South at 3rd East—17th South at 5th East South Temple at 2nd East We Give and Redeem JAC Discount Stamps. "We Feature" Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine usually good buys. The variety that makes the preparation of meals a genuine thrill. We assure you that our stores not only have big bargains, but also DOUBT THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol, XXIV JUNE, 1937 No. 6 CONTENTS The Shaft Turns Home.............. Bertha A. Kleinman 333 Frontispiece—Elder Albert E. Bowen............ 334 Albert Ernest Bowen............ Dr. W. W. Henderson 335 The Lotus Eater ............ Mabel S. Harmer 339 The Sheepskin on the Wall............ Sybil Spande Bowen 343 Conference Address......... Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon 348 A Love Song.......... Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy 351 Cooperation ............ Bishop John Wells 352 910 MPMIIMIS OBO G6 ............ Grayce Brown Lindenau 357 A Daughter Remembers Her Father............ Lorene Pearson 358 Trifles Light As Air...... Rosannah C. Irvine 362 My Window Boxes............ Della Adams Leitner 372 Die (ays Je) to] SERIO 6 ............ Harrison R. Merrill 373 The Woman Smoker............ Virginia B. Jacobsen 375 Two Little Girls in Pink.......... Ruth Partridge Richan 377 Little Moments of Eternity............ Lella Marler Hoggan 379 From the Ends of the Earth............ Vesta P. Crawford 381 Happenings ............ Annie Wells Cannon 384 General Relief Society Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements ............ Julia A. F. Lund 385 Notes From the Field............ Julia A. F, Lund 388 Notes to the Field ............ 392 Editorials— Wonderful Loyalty ............ 396 AMAZING ............ 397 Changes in Officials in Salt Lake Temple............ 397 Superintendency of Y. M. M. I. A....... 397 To Our Contributors......... 398 Lessons for 1937-38 ............ 398 Erratum ............ 398 To Stake Presidents.......... 398 To Our Magazine Agents......... 398 A Generous Gift ............ 399 Father ............ Linnie Fisher Robinson 399 ............ Lydia Hall 399 Oey rry yor s(¢4 ............ Ella J. Coulam 400 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 980 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address, Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of Postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. THE American Beauty WASHER IS THE EASIEST IN THE WORLD ON CLOTHES GRANITE FURNITURE Co. 1050 East 21st South—Sugar House FAITH You can't see your milk produced. You can not see the various steps by which it comes from the stable to your door-step in clean, shining bottles. ° Arden Dairy has an excellent reputation. We feel keenly that it is a serious responsibility to supply you with pure milk, So Arden Milk is good milk, because it is the product of a good organization. ARDEN DAIRY Character Education Education for Character, for Sturdy and Active Spirituality... That is the type of training which Brigham Young University earnestly strives to give. Thus emphasis will be laid on character and religious training in the 1937 Summer Session. Dr. M. Lynn Bennion, L. D. S. Seminary Supervisor, will teach "Problems in Religious Education and Religious Guidance" and will take the lead in a seminar on "Problems of Curriculum in Religious Education." Dr. Nat P. Lloyd, who specialized in character and general education at the University of hicago, will teach 'Methods in Character Education'' and 'Sociology of Re1igion.’ Dr. Henry Neumann, Brooklyn Society for Ethical Culture, will lecture on ethics. Other visiting Professors: Warren C. Davis, Ed. D (Education) Athenaeum, Rochester, New York. W. W. Henderson, Ph. D. (Zoology) U. S. A. C. Leland W. Creer, Ph. D. (History) President, Weber College. E. Edgar Fuller, J. D. (Education) President, Gila College. Charles W. Graves, B. S. (Physical Education) University of Southern California. A te Virgil Smith, M. A. (Education) Director of Instruction and Research. Seattle chools. Y Claude Eggertsen, M. A. (Education) Secondary Training School, University of Minnesota. EXCELLENT LECTURE COURSE ON CURRENT PROBLEMS First Term: June 14—July 23; Alpine Term: July 26—August 27 BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH "Scholarship—Spirituality—Character" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Everybody's Food Bread is the universal food—the old standby of young and old. Add to good bread the vitamin of sunshine— Vitamin D—and the result is your best food. FISHER'S Vitamin D Bread A Product of the AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY The Big Home-Owned Bakery Have You Had Your Doughnut Today? NET WEIGHT 1B 13oz, Company furnishers of clean linen to all kinds of business. "IT PAYS TO KEEP CLEAN" Phones—Was. 2484-2485 ANNOUNCEMENT! The Relief Society study books for next season have been selected. -We give you their titles and their special prices to members. ROMANCE OF AN OLD PLAYHOUSE. By George D. Pyper (regular price $2.50).....$2.00 LOG CABIN LADY (Anonymous) in a special Relief Society edition $1.25 STAR OF THE WEST, by Ethel Houston, in a special edition at....$1.00 If you order all three together and send cash with your order, you may get the three books, postpaid for only $4.00 (Plus State Sales Tax) Send in your order now to the DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City. Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE SHAFT TURNS HOME By Bertha A. Kleinman Say something that shall happiness enstate, Some word of praise, some pleasantry, each day, Say on until the habit you create, And bickering and slander drown away; See beauty every day and pass it on, Some lovely thing that others do not see, A primsy cloud, a star, a burst of song, And shape the discord into harmony. - Not now and then, but every single day, Do something for another in his need, Some gift of self, his burden to allay, And see your own load lighten at the deed, For as you help another to endure, The shaft turns home—you help your own self more! ELDER ALBERT E. BOWEN The Relief Society Magazine Vou. XXIV JUNE, 1937 No. 6 Albert Ernest Bowen of the Council of the Twelve By Dr. W. W. Henderson THIS article is a brief story of conversion to the church in a foreign land; immigration to America under trying circumstances; crossing the dusty, unproductive plains from the Missouri River to Salt Lake Valley by foot, or cart, or covered wagon; colonization and the hunt for homing places in the wild desert lands of the Great Basin; settling down to conquer the untamed resources which man had never touched, and win an existence from soil that had been almost forever the possession of the sage, the native grasses and the wild beasts which lived among them. This is a brief mention of a God-fearing people, striving together in these new lands to build up social communities, and then the silent but certain call to the great centers, of those pioneer youth who looked with vision beyond the horizon which bounded the little and much limited far-away settlements in which these youth found themselves. It is a story of magnificent leadership spread far out, and the return of this leadership, in a generation or two, to the very centers from which a wonderful movement spread, to take an influential hand in guiding the great master wheel that gave, and still gives, spirit and wisdom and vitality to the whole affair. This grand panorama is the course that has been run by Elder Albert Ernest Bowen, with his good forebears beginning the pageant on British soil and with his own skillful hand now participating at the great and guiding helm. O ye unto all the world and preach the gospel to every creature." (Mark 16:15) No greater labor of love was ever laid on the faithful than that; and probably no greater order was ever given in behalf of mankind. Il Duce would send his emissaries into other lands to impose fascism. Der Feuhrer would impose the nazi doctrine; and Stalin would have communism of his kind cover the earth; all of them by force, if necessary. Jesus would have his missionaries go voluntarily to carry the love of God to all who dwell on earth, that peace may abide in all the nations and good will in every heart. It was this lovely message of the Savior that the faithful missionaries of the Church were attempting to bear to all men; it was this "sound 336 of the gospel" that caught the attention of David Bowen, the young man in Wales, and Annie Shackleton, the young woman in England, unknown to each other, who were destined to meet and be joined in holy wedlock, far away in the land of Zion, and be the parents of Elder Bowen. "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned." This statement does not carry a promise to pay for goodness nor a threat to destroy those who fail. It is merely a plain statement of natural consequence. If one believes and then acts as if he really does, appropriate reward is the only result that can follow. If one does not believe he will likely not act as if he does and this failure like all failures has damning consequences. The life and the actual day to day living of David Bowen and Annie Shackleton and the family they brought up have been consistent with a sincere and devout acceptance of the gospel of Christ. They heard the "word," they did what it required, and the "house" they built upon "a rock" has never been shaken by wind, or rain, or flood. The reward has been certain. DAVID BOWEN came to Utah from Wales in 1856. Annie Shackleton came from England in 1860. Both were in early youth, but they paid for their own passage with hard work and hard saving. They both came to Utah alone, as far as their own families were concerned. They met each other in Salt Lake City in 1860, married in 1861, and lived in Salt Lake until 1869. In these eight years, they acquired a little home of their own in the city, a five acre tract in "The Big Field", a family of four children, an increased love for the gospel they had espoused in their youth, and an RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE enlarged vision of the part they must take in the great movement they were a part of. COLONIZATION was one of the most evident of the Latter-day Saints activities in those early days. Thousands of people were coming annually to join the saints in Utah. Not only must the population spread out into new territory to prevent overcrowding, but all promising places must be taken possession of while the opportunity was favorable. Under a carefully planned program of settlement set up by the church under the direction of that greatest of all known colonizers, President Brigham Young, some of the saints were moving eastward from Salt Lake into Wyoming, some were moving southward into Utah's Dixie, and into Arizona, some westward into Nevada and some northward into Idaho. The most successful attempt at colonization the world knows about was being carried on with order and enthusiasm. People coming to Utah from all Lands were finding new homes and _ happily building up hundreds of successful and happy communities. The spirit of colonization took hold of the Bowens and the Bowens took hold of the movement. It helped them along into new opportunity. Important as this was to them, it was very much more important to the colonization movement. They helped it. They gave the movement direction and strength; they gave it wisdom; they gave it tenacity, industry, intelligence and fortitude. Those colonizers who moved along with the Bowens did so largely by reason of the Bowens. Ask any of them who were there and they will tell you that the Bowens were the moving and uplifting spirits in the settlement. Elder Bowen said in one ALBERT ERNEST BOWEN of his excellent essays, "The life of one great man is worth more in the world than the cattle on a thousand hills." (B. Y. C. Bulletin, Vol. X, No. 3.) It was so with this fine Bowen family in that great movement of people seeking new places to make homes and build communities. HE Bowens settled on Henderson Creek, a few miles south of Malad, Idaho, in the fall of 1869. It was here that Elder Bowen was born in 1876. The family moved a little later on to Samaria, a settlement about five miles southwest of Malad. This was their home for many years. They played a leading role in developing community life, in building churches, in organizing and carrying on religious institutions, in setting up schools, in accumulating good books and in crystallizing moral and religious sentiment into worthy standards of living. One brief glance into the Bowen home in the evening is beautiful. Father Bowen was industriously and thoughtfully reading the Bible or other church works, These were his favorites and claimed all his spare time. Mother Bowen was enjoying another classical English work of Thackeray or Scott or Dickens or another of this class, which she had managed in some ingenious way to possess; pausing at times to drive home a beautiful lesson to the rest of the family everyone of whom had a book in his hand or his "head in a book." Every winter evening was a night school. Mother teaching the great English classics, father teaching the Church works, and every member of the family an honor student. Given a few homes like this in every community and they will easily make the whole world into a paradise. Elder Bowen truthfully said, a 337 quarter of a century ago, "Improvement is like everything else; the desire for it has to be inspired before it can take place, and it takes opportunity to suggest possibility and beget desire. No one can have a desire for that which his mind has not conceived and the presence of that which leads to and suggests worthy conceptions, begets noble desires, and these in turn find expression in exalted achievement." (Loc cit) Elder Bowen must have gotten this grand thought right out of his own home. LL that has been said in this brief article, so far, constitutes the'solid foundation upon which Albert Ernest Bowen has built his life. Probably he would not, or could not wish a better foundation. How could there be a better one? He had within him that blessed gift of understanding which enabled him to see clearly what the entire panorama was, of what it was all about. He had also that magnificent gift of response which reacts sensibly to wholesome stimulus. By the time he had come to his youth, he was all wound up like some superior mechanism, having within him an unyielding power to keep on going. Energy, ambition and determination had been so deeply implanted in him, that there was never a thought of deviation from the courses on which his good father and his ingenious mother had started him. He was never like a meteor to shine out in a brief dazzle and then fall somewhere, but like a planet set going within the limitations of universal law to find his course to be constant and progressive. BERT BOWEN had visioned college days, and in spirit, had attended college long before he arrived 338 there. He had known some of his school teachers intimately, had seen how grand it was to be learned and had dared to envision himself sometime engaged in the noble vocation of school teacher. At the Brigham Young College in Logan he met many other young folks, brought up as he had been, in the same great movement, by sturdy parentage, in rough country under conditions of material poverty and spiritual riches. To all these fine young folks, he was an inspiration. No student ever outclassed him in character and scholarship. The leadership we mention in our first paragraph made itself strongly manifest in A. E. Bowen the very first year he was at college. His instructors remarked that he was distinctly on his way to the front ranks. Nothing but an all defeating calamity could have stopped this young scholar on his wy to some position of eminence where he could be useful to the most people possible. Elder Bowen said in the general conference of the church on April 6, 1937, "that the only thing in the world that counts is people. In all of his ministry Jesus was concerned only with people; nothing else mattered." Elder Bowen's old college day friends know that he was thinking this same grand thought thirty-five years ago. "I have never regarded RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE myself as a person of particular consequence," said Elder Bowen. (Loe. Cit) All his friends know that, and many will recall that his remark is a, worthy example of Emerson's great truism "All great men are willing to be small." (Compensation) Space compels that this article come to a close. We trust to others to tell much that we must necessarily omit. BROTHER BOWEN has never had to ask the question "Where shall I get an opportunity?" He has always been able to see opportunity. He has, however, often faced the perplexing question "Which opportunity shall I take?' Many of them have come to him. The wisdom to choose rightly has ever been his. When he received the late call to the Apostleship he very modestly said, "I pledge you that I will give it all my strength." This is a magnificent pledge, and it is no new pledge for A. E. Bowen. He made this pledge first on Henderson Creek. He repeated this pledge when he went to college, and again when selected for the debating team forty years ago, and how many times before and since, nobody knows. This pledge is not a slogan of his, it is a lifetime policy as deep seated as the very internal organs that keep him breathing. IDEALISTS By Claire Stewart Boyer We are all poets to the same degree That we are true to what we wish to be. The Lotus Eater By Mabel S. Harmer I stood and watched the train speeding rapidly on in the distance. She had so hated to leave it. There had been a sense of security and wellbeing within its handsomely finished interior that had deserted her the minute she had stepped out onto the station platform. When the train had finally gone around a curve and out of sight she looked about in her more immediate vicinity. The little town lay close to some towering mountains, the largest she had ever seen. She wondered if her destination lay beyond them or out west over the plain that seemed to stretch on barren and most uninteresting. Only two other passengers had left the train at the little wayside town and they had already disappeared, apparently lucky folk knowing where they were going and how to get there. Deciding that she had best be making some attempts to find out where she herself was going she walked into the station and up to the ticket window. The station agent was enjoying his lunch and had an abundance of thick sandwiches and a bottle of milk spread before him. Helen coughed politely a second time before he turned around and said, "Yeah? What kin I do fer you, sister?" "T'm going to Medford," she answered, "and I'd like to know how to get there." "Well, I dunno now. The mail's gone. Leaves at nine in the morning. Guess maybe you'll have to Hy seco heart sank as she stay here over night. There's a good hotel in town." "But I don't want to stay here over night," objected Helen. "'Isn't there anyone else going out?" "Billy's outside with a load of freight. He might take you if you don't mind riding on a truck." The agent turned back to his lunch with an air of having done his full duty and Helen went outside. She found the truck with the driver industriously piling it high with boxes. She scrutinized him carefully for a minute but finally decided to take her chances with the truck rather than spend a night in Junction City and began pleasantly, "Are you" she hesitated. She couldn't very well say, "Are you Billy?" when she had never seen the man before. '""Are— are you going to Medford?" she finally managed to say. Billy stopped loading and looked around at her. He was a man about fifty, short and spry and just escaped being grizzled looking. He beamed on Helen affably and said, "Sure thing. Just about ready to go. Want to send somethin' along?" Helen smiled back at him. "I'd like to go myself if you can make room for me." Billy looked dubiously at the pile of luggage over on the platform. "I might put you in," he said, "but I don't know about your stuff over there. I guess you'd want to be taking that along." "I'd have to take my traveling bag and I wouldn't dare leave my violin," she answered, "but the rest can wait." "Wall, jest to show you that my 340 heart's in the right place," said Billy cheerfully, "I'll unload some of this stuff and put yourn on. I told Pete I'd bring out this canned goods if I had room. Well—I ain't got room," and suiting his action to his words, Billy began taking the boxes out. "I don't like to inconvenience anyone," laughed Helen, "but I imagine that I need my clothes just as much as Pete needs canned tomatoes." "Sure you do," agreed Billy. "Now you climb right up there in the driver's seat and I'll have this stuff out in no time." Helen climbed up in front taking her violin case along for safe keeping while Billy packed her trunk and suitcase into the space recently occupied by Pete's canned tomatoes. When he had made everything secure, Billy got in beside her and started off with a jerk. "Old Bertha here do hate to start," he said half apologetically, "but she's a good nag onct she gits goin'." Helen decided to reserve judgment on Bertha's prowess for the time being but hoped for the best. As they drove through the main street of the town she noticed some eating houses and suddenly remembered that she had had no lunch but decided that she couldn't very well ask Billy to wait for her while she stopped to appease her appetite. It prompted her, however, to ask how far the distance was to Medford. "Just fifty miles," answered Billy. "We can make it easy in two or three hours if all goes smooth." Helen fervently hoped that all would go smooth and wished that she had had the forethought to take the box of chocolates out of her handbag before Billy had tucked it away so securely behind. It occurred to her that she ought to introduce RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE herself and she raised her voice above the noise of the truck to say, "My name is Helen Burt." "Oh, sure," nodded Billy in apparent satisfaction, "you're the new schoolteacher." "Yes, Lam," replied Helen. "How did you know?" "Wall, today's Friday an' school starts Monday an' you're young and pretty so that wa'n't so hard to figure out." "Are all school teachers young and pretty?" asked Helen in amusement. "All the ones that come out here are, but they mostly only teach about a year or so," chuckled Billy. "Why? What happens to them?" "They marries and settles down." Billy nodded for emphasis. "Out here?" queried Helen. "Sure. Why not?" demanded Billy. "This is a fine country out here." "T'm sure it is," agreed Helen. "Where's your home town?" asked Billy in a tone wherein Helen thought she detected a bit of a challenge. "Long Beach, California," she answered, "Hm-—you don't have any snow down there, do you?" Billy was mildly scornful. "No," admitted Helen. 'At least none that ever stays on the ground." "Wall you'll see plenty of it out here in Wyoming." Billy waxed eloquent. "Sometimes it covers all the fences and gits so deep here in these mountains that the mail can't git through fer a week at the time. You can't go anyplace 'cept in a bobsleigh and the thermometer drops to 40 below." Helen gave him a sidelong glance. "You are just teasing me," she said smiling. "Not on your life, I ain't," Billy asserted vigorously. "There'll be six THE LOTUS EATER months when you won't see anything but snow on the ground as fer as you kin look. "How long have you lived here?" asked Helen. "Fifty years. Born." "Well then, I guess I can stand it for one year," and Helen settled back philosophically to enjoy the scenery about her. "They were well into the canyon now and although "Bertha" protested at the extra effort the climb required of her she nevertheless kept going stoically on. The pines and quaking aspen made a picture of vivid greenness that was new and refreshing. To Helen after the brown autumn of southern California that she had just left. She felt some of the enthusiasm returning that she had felt when she first started out on her journey. She was young and there was adventure ahead. What if the snow did get four feet deep and the thermometer drop to 40 below? It might be ever so much fun and would certainly be something to tell her grandchildren about when she was old. Right now, however, she could think of nothing more delightful than eating a good square meal. She had eaten her breakfast way back in another state and hadn't expected that it would have to sustain her halfway across the country. "Have we much further to go?" she finally asked Billy hoping that he might urge the truck to a little greater speed. "Nope. We're well over half way. Why—gettin' tired?" "No. Not especially," said Helen, although she had long since decided that there were other things more conducive to comfort than jolting Ever sence I was 341 over fifty miles of canyon road in a truck, "but I am hungry." "Shucks! Is that all? Well, I kin soon fix that. Ma allus puts in a few extry sandwiches in my lunch in case I git stalled on the way. Here they are'"'—and reaching down under the seat, Billy brought forth a paper bag and placed it in Helen's lap. She found the sandwiches to be of true western proportions but they were neatly wrapped in clean wax paper so she accepted them gratefully. Half an hour later Billy turned around a curve in the mountain road and said triumphantly, "There's the valley. Ain't she purty?" Helen leaned forward breathlessly. Ever since she had received her contract to teach in the little Wyoming town she had tried to visualize it but the scene before her was entirely different from her mental picture. Instead of the broad sagebrush covered plains of her imaginings she saw a valley etched in delicate green. Several small towns were scattered about at almost precise intervals with ranches covering every other available bit of space. There were very few trees except the quaking aspen that clung to the lower part of the hills. Helen smiled back at Billy. "It's awfully pretty," she agreed. "I know I am going to like it. Which town is Medford?" "The first one comin' up," he answered, nodding at the village just below them. "Do you want to go to Mis' Riley's?" "Well, I don't know. Isn't there a hotel of some sort?" "That's Mis' Riley. She usually keeps the teacher an' anyone else that happens to be passin' through." Helen was not much taken with the idea of moving into a home for the winter, unsight and unseen, but 342 there seented to be no other choice so she agreed that Billy should leave her at Riley's. He stopped in front of a large frame house and honked unceremoniously at a woman working out in a sketchy garden. "Hi, Ellen!" he called as the woman straightened up slowly and began walking toward them. "Here's the new teacher." As this was apparently meant to be some sort of introduction Helen acknowledged it with a smile. "Come right in,' Mrs. Riley said affably, quite as if she had been expecting Helen—which perhaps she had. "If you'll unload her things Billy, I'll get Pa to help carry them in, "Oh, Johnny!" she called to a fair haired boy standing on the porch, "Go tell your pa the teacher's come." HELEN descended from the truck and walking toward Mrs. Riley, held out her hand. "My name is Helen Burt," she said. She was beginning to think that if she didn't soon give them something else to call her she would be known permanently as "the teacher." Mrs. Riley hastily wiped her hands on her kitchen apron before she took Helen's and then she led the way into the house and up a narrow stairway. "This front room will be yours," she said ushering Helen into a small low-ceilinged room. "Make yourself to home." Billy and Mr. Riley were just behind with her trunk and the three Riley children brought up the rear. When Helen was duly installed and Billy had been paid, the whole retinue departed leaving her what she was tempted to describe as "alone at last." She took off her hat and looked around her. The room held a large double bed, a table, two chairs, a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE dresser and a small black heating stove. Helen gazed at the latter almost in amazement. She hadn't realized that such things were still in use or at least that she would ever be called on to use one herself. SHE unpacked a few clothes and then went downstairs as the room was chilly and there was no fire as yet in the black stove. She wandered into what was undoubtedly the parlor since it contained a piano but it was cold here too. There were sounds of activity and odors of cooking food issuing from the kitchen but Helen wasn't sure that she would be welcome there so she went back upstairs for a sweater and went outside. The air was crisp and invigorating and she walked rapidly down the road. She passed a few houses with their invariably larger barns at the rear and herds of cattle standing in nearby fields. Suddenly she espied a red brick building a short distance away that was unmistakably the school house. A sharp thrill of anticipation ran through her. She simply must see it closer. Perhaps the door would be unlocked or if not, she could at least take a peek through a window. By cutting through the field she could reach it in a few minutes. She hesitated a moment and then climbed the fence and jumped down with an agility of which she was rather proud. She was half way across the field when a masculine voice called to her, "Hey, you! Get out of there!" Helen who had been picking her way rather carefully over the uneven field glanced up to see the owner of the voice standing near a gate made of log bars. She gave him only a cool glance. She wasn't go- THE LOTUS EATER ing to hurt his old field by walking on it. "Hurry up, you little fool!” he called again, apparently noticing that she was being deliberately slow. "Can't you see that critter watching you?" She glanced around and noticed an unusually large animal eyeing her with distrust and suspicion. For a brief second Helen thought that she would take her chances with the animal rather than obey the command to run but a sudden snort behind her changed her mind in a hurry and she fled with all her energy to the gate where the waiting man seized her and pulled her over. He set her down on the ground and gave her an extra shake for 343 good measure as he demanded, "Haven't you got any sense? Don't you know that's where Jed Mason keeps his bull?" Helen released herself from his none too gentle grasp, and glared back at him, "No, of course I don't know. Why should 1?" she asked indignantly. "Oh, I beg your pardon, Ma'am," the young man was suddenly embarrassed. "I didn't notice before you was a stranger. Helen let him squirm a few moments for punishment and then smiled as she said, "It's quite allright, and thanks for jerking me over the danger line." (To Be Continued) The Sheepskin on the Wall By Sibyl Spande Bowen HE only bright spot in the whole picture to Mark Manson was Sue, sitting several rows ahead of him, with the '"D's", the ugly mortar board cap perched at a pert angle on her bright brown hair. Her head was thrust slightly forward, her lips were parted. There was an air of breathless expectancy about her, as if she were on the brink of a thrilling adventure, as if she believed all those old saws the commencement speaker was loosing with such pious unction on the graduating class seated in their black gowns before him. "She looks like a bird," Mark thought, "all enthusiasm, as if the world had been handed to her on a silver platter today." He eyed the facile-tongued orator balefully and thought, "Oh yeah, we're the world's hope all right. They won't even give us a job." The speech came to a caressing ° close. The audience, half-hypnotized by the smooth flow of words, sat silent for a moment, then broke into relieved motion, coughed, buzzed with long suppressed chatter, and crowded out behind the seniors to a triumphant recessional march from the orchestra. The seniors marched into the faculty room to receive congratulations, kisses and flowers. There was no one there for Mark. His people lived too far away, but Sue was completely surrounded by the Davis family. She waved to Mark, a sheaf of red roses in her hand. He made motions, their secret sign code. Sue laughed, and nodded her head. She would meet him, this indicated, at their particular bench at the far end of Cedar Walk. ARK found their bench, laid the suitbox containing his cap and gown beside him, and sat down to wait. The crowd about the university 344 thinned rapidly, rolling away in long lines of cars, hurrying down the walk in garrulous twos and threes. The walk empty, Mark sank his head between his hands and glowered to his heart's content. It was a beastly mood to end his college career in, this panicky feeling of not being wanted, of having no place to go. It wasn't fair. He felt a hand on his shoulder, and turned to face Sue, lovely in her pale silk dress and white coat. "I sneaked up on you," she laughed, and do you know you look like you're posing for a picture of 'young man in deep despair'. Move over. I've gorgeous news for you. For us, I mean. Uncle Jed Davis dropped in for the big day, and he says we can run the company store down at Cherry Creek. Now we can get married at once, Mark, the way we planned to if that job down in Arizona had come through." Mark's frown had lifted at Sue's first words. At mention of the store his mouth tightened angrily. "Did you say good news? Listen here, Sue, I love you with everything I've got, and I'd give a good deal to get married right away, but there are limits. You ask me to go down in the desert and run that dinky little mining camp store after I've slaved away here for four years getting a degree so I could be an engineer. Not on your life. I'll find a way to use my training, or I'll do nothing." Red flared into Sue's cheeks. Her brown eyes sparked angry glints. "You'll do nothing, then, I guess. Just about six hundred seniors after a few coy jobs, so your chance isn't so bright, my lad." She dropped her anger swiftly and laid a hand on his arm. "Mark, dear, it won't be permanent. Just so we can get a start." "Nothing doing, darling. I'll get a job in time. Don't you worry about RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that. But it'll be the job I want, not just something to pay the grocery bill with,' Mark said, tossing a blond lock out of his eyes. Sue was white. "I—I see. Your job comes first, I come second. I—I thought—oh, well what's the use talking about it. I won't stand in your way, Mark. You'll be better off without me hanging on to you—free to wait for the right kind of job." "Sue," Mark cried, "don't talk that way. You know how I feel about you. It's just that I don't want to start wrong. I won't ask you to wait for me if you don't want to." His blue eyes were pleading, but Sue saw only his set, stubborn mouth. Suddenly they were standing, facing each other with hostile wariness. Mark couldn't tell how it happened. Certainly the last thing he wanted was a break with Sue, who had been his "girl" all through college, but here it was. "Thanks for suggesting it,' Sue whispered with an attempt at irony, "that's a neat way of putting it Don't worry. I'm not the kind to 'wait' for anybody. I—oh, what's the use. Happy landings, Mr. Engineer."" She turned and ran across the lawn, but not before Mark had seen the glint of angry tears in her brown eyes. Mark felt a sudden, sinking, desolation. She'd gone. Well, let her, if that was the way she wanted it. He had himself to consider in this affair. He sat down on the bench again, his long frame slumping dejectedly on the bench. There was no particular reason why he should go anyplace, he reflected bitterly. For all Sue, or anyone else cared, he could sit out his life on the edge of Cedar Walk, and the world would never know the difference. Just one less nuisance looking for a job. He was quite overwhelmed with this warm wash of self-pity. THE SHEEPSKIN ON THE WALL AN old man ambled down the walk from the Assembly building. A dressy old soul, Mark noticed sourly, with fawn-colored gloves and a red carnation in his buttonhole. That ruddy face was vaguely familiar. He was expensively dressed, too, the way certain of the older generation could afford to dress. They'd had all the chances, of course, when the country was new and there were more jobs than men. Mark wished with all his heart that-he had been born thirty years earlier. "Couldn't get a cab. Too many other people wanted them, so I thought I'd walk down this way to a bus. You get them here, don't you?" the old fellow remarked cheerfully, pausing before Mark. "Mind if I share that bench with you for a few minutes? Too nice a day to hurry away from a grand campus like this one." Mark moved his suit box ungraciously and the man sat down. The lid slipped from the box and disclosed the cap and gown within. The old man pounced on it happily. "So you're one of those lucky young graduates I saw today." He took off his own expensive felt hat and perched the mortarboard atop his thick white hair. "Here's how I looked forty years ago, just such a June day as this one. Of course the hair was red, and the face wasn't, but you get the general idea," he explained expansively, turning his slightly cherubic old face up to the summer sun. Mark grinned, in spite of himself. The old fellow was in such a gay mood he couldn't keep his own private grouch. "Are you one of our alumni, sir?" he asked, more agreeably, "I understand it's the fortyyear reunion today, all right." "Not of this college, son. Not this college," the old man said, removing the cap and turning it about on 345 his hand, "my college could hide in a wing of this big place and never be noticed. Cherry Hill College, it is, down in Virginia. But it was a real college, son, don't forget that. Old Dr. Peabody never let a man get a degree unless he was educated, and then he got his sheepskin with all the flourishes the college could put on. Real sheepskin, too. None of this parchment paper stuff for Dr. Peabody." "Well," Mark growled, plunged into melancholy again by the mention of sheepskins, "I guess it does not make much difference to us fellows. Likely we. Won't ever get a chance to use even an imitation one." The old man broke into his cherrycheeked grin again. 'Ha, that sounds like home to me. You know I never got a chance to use my education, either, real sheepskin and all." "You never got a chance to use it?" repeated Mark, lifting his head and tossing back the blond lock in amazement, "why that's ridiculous. Forty years ago this country could use all the men it could get, trained or not. They didn't have enough of any profession."' "Had plenty of lawyers even forty years ago," the old man twinkled, "but that's not the story. Fact was, when I got back to my father's farm after I graduated, father was on his death bed. He made me promise I'd run the farm until the younger boys were through college, so they could have the chance I'd had." "Just like a woman asking her daughter never to marry until she died," Mark objected, "it wasn't fair." "You bet it was fair," the old man flashed, ''we knew what duty was in those days. And I got married, all right. Martha and I built us a pretty little place the other end of the farm, and I hung my sheepskin on the wall while the boys and I ran that place and made it pay. All three of them went through Cherry Hill college before mother died, and then we sold the farm and divided up the money. I had two boys of my own by that time, with a baby girl thrown in for good measure. Then, with the farm off my hands, and the boys on their own, I decided to set up an office and practice law, as I'd been trained to do."
"But you were too rusty on it, by that time," Mark surmised, shaking his head, "it must have been several years after you graduated, wasn't it?"
"Ten, to be exact," the old man admitted, "but you're wrong about getting rusty. Good common sense gets a chance to sharpen up every day of your life, and I'd kept up my reading. Once a man knows how to use his law books he's always ready to set himself up. Here, you take this," he handed the mortarboard to Mark, "before I have it all used up in twirling."
"As I was saying, I was all ready to practice. Even passed my bar examinations, when the panic of 1907 hit our valley pretty hard. Folks were uneasy and fearful. A fellow by the name of Wilkins had been out West, and he began to talk about the free land to be homesteaded. One valley in particular would accommodate the whole lot of us with a half section of land apiece, and there was a company ready to build a reservoir to irrigate it if enough people filed on the land to pay them to start work. A group of old friends and neighbors came to the house one night and asked me to head a bunch who wanted to start out anew in the West. Pretty discouraged with things at home, they were. The way they'd been handling their farms the land was about worn out, and no jobs to get when they did give up the old places.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Martha was against it at first. We had our pretty little place, and enough money to keep us until my practice was worked up, but she was soon talked over. She could see as well as I could the men needed someone to organize things if they were going to make a new start.
"So we sold out and went West. We didn't homestead. That was our first mistake. We let that irrigation company talk us into buying land from them for about a dollar an acre. We thought it was dirt cheap, but we didn't know the West.
"We'd been used to easy farming, and signed up for so much clearing and cultivation and fencing that a bunch twice our size couldn't have got it done in the two years we agreed upon. We worked early and late, grubbing sagebrush, digging post holes, and chasing out jackrabbits. Then that irrigation company began to hint around we might lose our land.
"You can bet I got busy. I took the trip, I remember, to the capitol, to explain how we needed more time to fulfill the contract. I have to laugh now, when I think of it.
"They didn't want us to have enough time. It would have broken their hearts and spoiled all their plans if we'd had enough time. That shyster bunch had tricked us greenhorns into biting off more than we could chew, and got us there, sixty families working thirty sections of land, with houses, barns, plowed land and everything started fine, just so they could take it away from us and bleat 'contract broken'. I guess my education had been napping when I let them put that over in the first place.
"But I woke up, you can bet. I got right busy, passed the bar examinations in that state and sat down to get us out of the mess we were in. The company had the nerve to offer
THE SHEEPSKIN ON THE WALL
to let us buy our own farms at ten dollars an acre. You can imagine how mad that made us. It took me over two years to clear our titles and put that bunch of crooks where they belonged. All good solid law work, you might say, but still I wasn't practicing my profession exactly; wasn't using my education the way I'd thought to when I graduated.
"By that time we had a little town there. Other families had moved in and we'd built a church and a schoolhouse. It looked as though the time had come when I could quit farming and put out my shingle. So Martha and I sold our half section, built us a little town house and got busy on plans for the office. Somehow, I wasn't so happy about it as I'd expected to be. I'd been a sort of public prop for so long I scarcely knew how I'd go about the process of simply minding my own business. But as it turned out, I didn't get a chance to try it."
Mark had been listening with his mouth half open, and now he gave a deep sigh and slumped back onto the bench. "I see. You'd been out of touch with your profession so long you couldn't take it up when you did have the chance. That's what I'm afraid of, myself. That's why I won't take just any old thing."
"Not so fast, son. You jump at conclusions too handily," the old man interrupted, out of patience, "I didn't say I was out of touch. I was all ready to go, as you young folks say, but people all over our state had heard of me by that time. They made me senator and sent me to Washington, and I've been so dratted busy these last twenty-five years I haven't even had time to think of my own affairs."
The old man ho-hummed, rearranged the red carnation in his buttonhole, and prepared to get up.
Mark looked at him for a dazzled moment, and then burst out, "Why I know who you are now sir. You're Senator Gray, and you're one of the guests of honor here today. How did you get away from them, to stroll off here by yourself?"
Senator Gray chuckled. "You learn how to give 'em the slip, son, so you can enjoy yourself once in a while. They owe me a little time to myself, don't you think, seeing they never did give me a chance to use my education? Well, it's been a pleasure, chatting with a young fellow like you, just out of college, all eager for a chance to get started and show the world how it's done." He lifted his hat jauntily as Mark sprang to his feet, and strolled down the path humming a little tune in pleasant off-key.
All eager for a chance! Mark forgot to be sarcastic about that. He was eager for a chance, and perhaps that little store down in the desert was it. You couldn't tell anything about blind alleys, it seemed, if farms and moldy old irrigation projects were roads to glory. A light came into his blue eyes as he gathered up his hat and suit box and strode down the path. He could reach Sue on the 'phone by now. If not, he'd get hold of someone's car and drive out to her place. He'd get there. Everything was suddenly possible. She must know about him, at once. And it didn't matter how small that store was, or where it was. The thing was, to get started doing something. That is if Sue would— oh, of course she would. Sue was that kind of a girl. Conference Address By Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon I AM happy to greet you. I take it that the largest part of this congregation consists of the presiding officers in Stakes, Wards and Missions of Relief Society, and as such I congratulate you on the splendid work that you, in cooperation with the Presidency and General Board of Relief Society, are doing in this great organization. I have great respect for the Relief Society. My first experience with it, and I am reminded of this by Sister Merrill's report, was some thirty-seven years ago when I was twenty-three years of age, presiding over the mission in Holland and Belgium. In those days there were no mission supervisors in' Relief Society, Sunday School or other organizations; but the Mission President had to combine within himself all the supervisory duties of the organizations; and so I had: occasion frequently to visit the Relief Society in the various branches of that Mission, and of instructing them, theoretically of course, as I had no practical experience. But it was surprising how kind they were at receiving my suggestions and instructions. Some time later I was called into the Presidency of Pioneer Stake, and had the pleasure and opportunity of frequent contact with the Relief Society in that Stake, and in the Ward organizations throughout the Stake; and I learned to appreciate in large measure the wonderful work being done by them. I found in the Ward conferences that the Bishoprics of the Wards would report, in every instance, that the Relief Society was a great support to the Bishopric by looking after the welfare of those in need,—the sick and those in distress. In more recent years I have had the pleasure of meeting the Presidency of Relief Society, as nearly as possible every week, to discuss with them their problems and successes. T have realized in large measure how splendidly the work is being done, and how unselfishly and whole-heartedly the sisters in this great organization are doing the service which is sO necessary all the time, and has been particularly necessaty in the last few years during the times that have been less fortunate for the people throughout the Church and throughout the Nation. I HAVE not had time to think of many things to talk about this afternoon, but I made a few notes to which I would like to call attention. The first thing is what the Prophet Joseph Smith had in mind when he organized the Relief Society on March 17, 1842, in connection with some of the General Authorities of the Church. I would like to read this brief statement of the purpose of Relief Society: "To care for the poor, the sick and unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to its highest level; to lift and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; to develop faith; to save souls; to study and teach the Gsopel." What a wonderful charge that is for any organization, and how fortunate the Relief Society is to have CONFERENCE ADDRESS such a charge placed in their hands. You have great traditions in this organization. You have been fortunate enough to have been organized by the founder of the Church under the direction of the Lord, to get instructions direct from him to your organization, and to carry forward so faithfully and well the purposes for which the organization was instituted. I would like again to read a further statement of what the Prophet himself said: "I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth. This is the beginning. Of better days for the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads." Again he said, "Let kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforth." Again, "As you increase in innocence and virtue, as you increase in goodness, let your hearts expand; you must be long-suffering and bear with the faults and the errors of others." Again he said, "Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work, which ye see me do.' These are the grand key-words for the Society to act upon." The Savior, you remember, went around doing good. That was His work, to preach the Gospel, to bind up the wounds of those who were bruised and hurt, and to bring comfort to all with whom he came in contact. That is a splendid example to be set for members of the Relief Society who are following in His footsteps and endeavoring to accomplish this charge. HOW has the Society measured up to its responsibilities? I am sure that in all the years that have passed since that time up to 349 the present time, the officers and members have nobly and zealously fulfilled every duty. I know that you are going forward to give of yourselves unselfishly for the welfare of those: who need your help. Now, as I see it, among the important objectives of the Society are social welfare and relief for those in need, maternal and child welfare and educational programs. There are other things that are being done in the Society that are very helpful, but it seems to me these are the fundamental objectives you have within your responsibility. In social service the Relief Society has adopted what is to me a very splendid plan, of taking from the best social service practice of the day the essentials to be employed in investigating carefully and confidentially the needs of the members of the Church within the Wards under the direction of the Bishopric and of supplying the reasonable needs. They are not professional social workers, they are volunteer social workers who are full of sympathy and kindness and consideration, and who endeavor to see that those who are in need get what they require without any public knowledge of their conditions except through the Relief Society social workers, the Presidency and the Bishopric of the Ward. With that method and that plan they are doing a very splendid work. I know quite thoroughly what their conditions have been, what they are doing, how they are trying to train women in all the various societies throughout the Church to do this work in a just, kindly and sympathetic way. Wil regard to maternal and child welfare, I am just reminded in this connection that the health of mothers and children is 350 being promoted very actively by the Relief Society. For instance, whether it be due to that work, or other things, the lives and health and right living of the mothers in this Church,—the maternal death rate— is considerably lower than throughout the nation. Taking the report of the United States as a whole for the year 1934, which is the last published record, the United States has a considerably higher death rate from causes incident to childbirth than is the case in the Church. It is 10.2 per 100,000 population. The Church has a death rate of 7.9 per 100,000 population, or 23% less. In the matter of infant mortality,—that is the death of infants under one year of age,—the 1934 report shows that in the United States as a whole the average per 1000 live births is 60.1. In the case of Latter-day Saints it is 33.1,—about half,— and yet our conditions in many cases are in some respects more primitive. There are more people living on the frontier among the Latter-day Saints than there are throughout the United States as a whole, and yet I am sure there is a great deal that can be done now and in the future through the efforts of Relief Society in cooperation with all the agencies that are cooperating for better health conditions, better protection for mothers and children, and better education with regard to the care of infants. We hope this death rate can be reduced still more, and better health and better protection provided in all of our various communities no matter how far away they are from medical centers. That is a very worthwhile and very important thing that needs to be done. It is said that ''a mother and father can live in the same house with a child for years, and still never know the child because they have never RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE won its confidence." What a mistake for the parents not to have the confidence, love and understanding of the child's wishes and desires. That is one of the great charges, as I see it, against many families in this nation. Burbank said, "If we had paid no more attention to our plants than we have to our children, we would now be living in a jungle of weeds." As mothers in the home, they have more influence, and should have more of the confidence of their children than anyone else, and they should jealously guard that confidence, and undertake to maintain it and increase the confidence between mother and child, that the mother may influence the child to grow in faith and righteousness, to resist evil, immorality and every other thing that will lead it away and interfere with its progress in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. THE Relief Society is cooperating whole-heartedly and energetically with the Church Security Program. As an organization they have certain duties and responsibilities to be carried out, and should not be hampered or restricted by Stake Presidents or Ward Bishoprics. Their funds for specific purposes should not be diverted. They are entitled, as an organization, to carry out, under the Stake Presidents and Bishoprics, the purposes for which they have been organized. Every one of these brethren who realize the splendid work they are doing will encourage them to carry out the plans for which they are organized, including their splendid unselfish service for the general needs of the people in the Church who are in distress and trouble. They do special work that should not be interfered with. They are called upon at all times, as the Prophet Joseph said CONFERENCE ADDRESS they should be, to take care of conditions of death, sickness and distress, many of which are immediate and urgent, and they should maintain certain supplies and equipment for such emergencies. They are giving such whole-souled service, that they should be heartily sustained and encouraged in these efforts. IT is said that anyone who is not willing to give to life more than he takes out of it is not living up to the standards and ideals which all of us should maintain. I am sure the Relief Society manifests the other attitude,—they are giving much more 351 than they are getting back; they are doing much more than they are getting credit for. They do not ask for credit, they are not seeking praise, but go forward quietly and unselfishly to accomplish the work they are doing. I pray that the Lord may bless and assist all of you in the great work you are doing, that you may be strengthened continually, and keep in mind continually that one of the great purposes is to help all Latter-day Saints to help themselves to become self-sustaining. May the Lord bless all of us in our efforts to this end, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, AmenA LOVE SONG Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy We lay 'mong the purple heather And gazed on the fair blue sea; And the wind and waves together Sang lullabies dreamily. The birds made a heavenly chorus, And our young hearts were so gay; For love was the sunshine o'er us Through that happy summer day. And love was our golden gloaming, And love the glorious light That shone as we went a-roaming On that blissful summer night. But the bloom fades from the heather And the light fades o'er the sea— Then what of the wintry weather That must come to you and me? When the light fails in the evening, And the song-birds fly away, And the restless waves are foaming, And the wind flings back the spray, When the warm earth-heart is holden In a cell under the snow, Will love make the grey days golden, And the darkest nights aglow? Will its jeweled crown of splendor Be won at life's evensong? Will your love then be more tender, And mine more divinely strong? The silence is all unbroken, Ah, why should I need a word? Thy soul, dear heart, it has spoken: I have heard, love, I have heard. SUMMER TIME By Nina W. Kerrick Summer's come, so little lamb Frisk and frolic all you can;: Zephyrs sweet your fleece will fan While you bleat a welcome To the fairest month of all. See, the dewdrops softly fall— They too, whisper, "Welcome". Fly wee bird, the day is done; See, the night is coming on, Oh, 'tis fairer than the dawn! Look! The moon advances— Slowly o'er the sky she creeps, And the milky way she sweeps While she smiles and glances. Cooperation By Bishop John Wells OOPERATION is the act of C working jointly together. In the sense of working together for a common result, cooperation is as old as human nature. A cooperative society is defined as a voluntary union of persons, on a democratic basis, to supply its members with goods and services, or to employ its members in producing for sale, or to sell its members' produce, or to finance its members, or to combine all these aims in one, and at the same time to distribute surpluses in a manner agreed upon by the members as fair to each and all. Cooperation is rooted back far into the past, but it is this modern world which has created the need and given the opportunity for the present cooperative movement, which now numbers more than 100,000,000 members. The success of the movement depends on "all for each and each for all" and this relies largely on the degree of intelligence, honesty and loyalty of the group, and the active interest of each member. GREAT BRITAIN is the home of cooperation as a movement, and of consumers' cooperation in particular. As early as 1761, a Fenwick Weavers Society in Ayrshire, Scotland, supplied its members with tools for their work and oatmeal for home consumption. In 1795, 1,400 inhabitants of Hull, in order to protect themselves "from the invasions of merciless men", established a society. Their flour mill continued to operate for one hundred years. Other societies were organized in the towns of Davenport and Sheerness, with various degrees of success. With the efforts of Robert Owen of Manchester, in 1820, and Dr. William King of London, 1827, and others, the English people began to take cooperation seriously. Changed conditions developed in England. Many workers realized there was something better for them than to work merely as industrial machines. Although the ideals of these pioneers of cooperation were not realized, the short-lived cooperative stores showed the advantages of community cooperative trading. In 1844, twenty-eight impoverished weavers of the cotton spinning factories of Rochdale, near Manchester, conceived a simple idea which revolutionized cooperation and is still the basis of producers' and consumers' cooperative societies. Their first effort was the purchase of a sack of flour which they divided among themselves. Finding it much cheaper to do this, than to purchase from the retail stores in small amounts, these twenty-seven men and one woman (Ann Tweedale) agreed to operate a small joint store. It took almost a year for them to save one pound each. On December 21, 1844, these pioneers having saved $140.00, bought supplies from wholesalers and in turn repurchased them through their store. At Toad Lane, Rochdale, their store opened with four staple products; tea, sugar, flour and rice. These weavers had taken the good principles which time had proved valuable to those who had tried cooperation previously, but they had also somehow stumbled on COOPERATION to a plan which would make the dreams of Robert Owen and Dr. William King and others a reality. Credit is due the Rochdale pioneers for standardizing the cooperative system. These Rochdale weavers, though untrained men in business, blazed the trail and prepared the way for the great era of cooperation. The principles upon which the Rochdale Cooperative Society was founded are (a) Open membership for all classes of people. (b) Democratic control. One member, one vote, thus upsetting the old system of one share, one vote. No voting by proxy. (c) Capital investment at a low rate of interest. (d) Part of the profits set aside for reserves, for education and for other purposes to be determined at a_ stockholders' meeting (e) The surplus not returned to stockholders, as dividends, but divided among the consumers or purchasers. This surplus or profit is returned once a year, based on the purchases of the consumer. (f) No political, religious, or racial discrimination. (g¢) No extensive advertising. No special merchandise sales. No deliveries or credit. All sales cash and carry. (h) Rigid accounting and careful auditing. In Great Britain, in consequence of opposition, it became necessary to organize societies to purchase goods in the open market for distribution to the consumers' cooperatives. These societies known as the Cooperative Wholesale Societies have been organized on the same principles as the regular consumers' cooperatives. The wholesale societies supply bakery products, shoes, clothing of all kinds, coal, milk, dairy products and meat to consumers' cooperatives. Not only have the Wholesale Societies provided for the individual needs of their members 353 and others, but they have developed along educational and recreational lines. These societies own a large number of manufacturing plants, maintain libraries, arrange for lectures, establish and maintain weekend schools, distrbute and publish their own periodicals, give concerts, dances and entertainments in their own halls and promote field days for old and young. The Wholesale Societies have also gone into the field of insurance, maintaining life and fire insurance cooperatives. Small loan banking has been highly developed. The Cooperative bank in Manchester has the largest turnover of any bank in England. The Cooperative Bakeries have reduced the price of bread. In Edinburgh a pound loaf made by the Cooperatives sells for three and a half cents. The great Cooperative Bakery in Glasgow, the largest in the world, covers four blocks, employs 1,700 people and has one hundred and _ thirty trucks to distribute its products. One of the great Cooperative Wholesale Societies in England employs 30, 000 people. The manager of this great institution gets a salary of about $3,600.00 a year; however, after a certain period he retires on full pay. These wholesale cooperatives supply their own consumers' cooperatives exclusively. The cooperatives neither manufacture nor sell intoxicants of any kind. In Great Britain, the Consumers' Cooperatives have 7,483,976 shareholder members, with assets of over a billion dollars and with yearly sales amounting to $1,000,200,000. There are 210,953 employees in the Consumers' Cooperatives, and many thousands more are employed in other departments of cooperative work. The Women's Cooperative Guild, founded in England in 1883, and 354 having 58,000 members, holds an important annual congress; is a selfgoverning organization mainly of married women, intent on stimulating and organizing the ideas and abilities of the woman in the home, both as a cooperator and a citizen. ME: HOWARD A. COWDEN, President of the Consumers Cooperative Association of North Kansas City, Missiouri, who visited cooperative institutions in England in 1934, records some interesting facts for that year. He writes of the displays at the Cooperative Congress, showing that almost every human want can be supplied through Cooperative Societies. The London Society, with 535,000 members, has over two hundred grocery and meat stores as well as fifty departmental stores. He states, "It distributes milk and sells coal, drugs, eyeglasses, theatre and travel tickets. It will launder your clothes, give you a permanent wave, tap your shoes and rent you a bus. On all this business it pays patronage dividend. Then, if in spite of all these services, you happen to die, it will conduct your funeral and pay your heirs insurance for which you have paid no premium but which you have earned by trading with the London Cooperative Society. London has four great Cooperative Societies with nearly a million cooperators." ONSUMERS' Cooperatives are not unknown to me, for as a young boy I well remember my mother, who was a member, purchasing from the Society in Nottingham. She owned one share of stock in the Society which cost one pound. Her purchases were entered by the Society in her pass book, together with the amount and date of purchase. At the close of the year a dividend was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE usually declared of not less than 10% on her purchases, or in other words, she received a proportion of the Society's surplus according to the amount of her purchases. DENMARK, avowing her debt to Rochdale, exhibits: a rural population using its double power as producers and consumers to attain a very complete cooperative welfare. Danish cooperatives have reached a development unknown in any other country. Josephine Goldmark in 'Democracy in Denmark" states that the Danish system of cooperation has won its world eminence through two remarkable factors: the small farm unit, essential in its intensive animal industry, and the large-scale cooperative farm associations responsible for the maintenance of uniformly high quality of production and also for marketing and finance. Nearly all Danish farms are owned by the occupant—probably not more than 5 per cent being held by tenants. Of the 206,000 Danish farms, 90 per cent are members of the cooperative dairies; the milk of more than 86 per cent of all the cows is processed in these dairies. Private dairies now number only about 338 as compared with 1,402 cooperative dairies. Of the 85 packing plants in Denmark, 62 are cooperative. The cooperatives for feeding supplies conduct over 67 per cent: of the business in this field. The cooperative seed associations have the largest seed business in Scandinavia and fill about 40 per cent of the seed industry in Denmark. COOPERATION in Ireland commenced in 1906. Ina little cabin amongst the barren hills of Donegal, a few Irish peasants conducted in turn, every evening, a tiny cooperative store. This Templecrone society has now become a peasant consumers’ COOPERATION 35 and producers' cooperative. The farmers' creameries are prospering under Government supervision. In joining a creamery the farmers take shares in proportion to their cows, guarantee milk supplies and receive payment monthly, or oftener, in proportion to the butter fat from each supplier (less the value of separated milk returned) with the surplus on working costs divided in the same way at each year end. The principle is the simple Rochdale idea adapted. GWEDEN, with a population of over 6,000,000 is one of the highly developed cooperative countries. More than one-third of the inhabitants of Sweden conduct their business through cooperative societies exclusively. Their manufacturing plants, wholesale distributing houses, consumers' cooperatives and production institutions are noted for their high standards and the quality of their products. COOPERATIVES in other European countries is developed to a marked degree. In Norway, Spain, Holland, Finland and other countries cooperation plays an important part in the peoples' welfare. N all countries where liberty even in a small degree prevails, cooperatives are developing. It may be surprising to some to know that there are hundreds of cooperative organizations in Africa, Asia, and South America. Statistics of 1933 show 14,651 cooperative societies in Japan, with 5,- 247,541 members. In Japan, cooperatives have been sponsored by Toyohiko Kagawa. He recognized seven kinds of cooperatives and is laboring to establish all seven kinds, since he feels that these seven cover Lo all fields of human economic interests. The seven kinds are: Producers, Consumers, Credit, Marketing, Utilities, Insurance, and Mutual Aid. He said, regarding the cooperative movement in Japan, "If we could have the seven kinds of cooperatives —we then would have no competitive and profiteering economic motives, we could have a good state." CONSUMERS' Cooperation in America dates from 1845, only one year later than the original beginnings in England. There have been many waves but it was not until recent years that cooperatives under the Rochdale system have become active. The cooperative movement in America is far less developed than in Europe. Cooperative organizations are most developed in the Middle West. Cooperatives operate retail and wholesale enterprises, gasoline filling stations, bakeries, laundries, restaurants, creameries, saw mills, coal mines, farm supply houses, etc. Cooperatives have established in North Kansas City an oil blending plant, the first of its kind owned by a cooperative organization in the United States. The oil is distributed locally and quantities are shipped to the cooperatives in Europe. Ohio farmers have formed a cooperative society for the manufacture of fertilizers. In 1935 there were in the United States 8,794 cooperative marketing associations, with 2,490,000 members; and 1,906 cooperative associations purchasing farm supplies, according to the 1936 Bulletin of the Farm Credit Administration. Uniting all the cooperatives in its federation and propaganda stands the Cooperative League of America, with J. P. Warbasse, President, with headquarters in New York City. "Its purpose," A. D. Warbasse states, "is to spread the scientific knowledge of 356 cooperative technique based on the soundest phases of the European experience, so that no longer will isolated societies be obliged to experiment for themselves. Through its propaganda it aims to guide the movement with the knowledge of the history, the purpose and the ideals of cooperation." "Perhaps the most fundamental influence of the cooperatives in Denmark," writes Josephine Goldmark, "has been through their effect on distribution of wealth. The profits of agriculture instead of being concentrated in the hands of a few have been spread out to a very large number of farm owners in the form of 'surplus' dividends at the end of the year; in the form of modest salaries to the managers of the cooperative societies." If the principles of the Rochdale system were followed in any country, would not this same fundamental influence obtain? THE interest of the leaders of our Nation are turned towards cooperation as it is being carried forward in the European countries. According to the Deseret News account of March 12, 1937, a Presidential Commission last summer visited Europe and studied the various Cooperatives. These societies offer everything from food to funerals, the Commission reports. All members agreed that the European Cooperatives were "big business." One member of the Commission expressed the idea that European Cooperatives were a combination of idealism and practical business. The question of the future of cooperation is of particular interest. LATTER-DAY SAINTS at an early day were advised regarding this matter of cooperation. I quote from a letter written about the year 1868, to the officers of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Church, signed by President Brigham Young, his Counselors, and eleven of the Council of the Twelve Apostles: "One of the great evils with which our own nation is menaced at the present time is the wonderful growth of wealth in the hands of a comparatively few individuals. The very liberties for which our fathers contended so steadfastly and courageously, and which they bequeathed to us as a priceless legacy, are endangered by the monstrous power which this accumulation of wealth gives to a few individuals and a few powerful corporations. By its seductive influence results are accomplished which, were it more equally distributed, would be impossible under our form of government. It threatens to give shape to the legislation, both State and National, of the entire country. If this evil should not be checked, and measures not taken to prevent the continued enormous growth of riches among the class already rich, and the painful increase of destitution and want among the poor, the nation is likely to be overtaken by disaster; for, according to history, such a tendency among nations once powerful was the sure precursor of ruin. The evidence of the restiveness of the people under this condition of affairs in our times is witnessed in the formation of societies of grangers, of patrons of husbandry, trades unions, etc., combinations of the productive and working classes against capital." It would seem that the world is unchanged. Are we not confronted with the same problem today? LET us turn to an objective of the Church Security Plan: To promote equality, make our. People selfsupporting, provide profitable employment and to substitute coopera- COOPERATION tion among our people, for competition and individualism which now exists. The basis of cooperation is consideration of the group as a whole, rather than the individual. It means bringing the producer and the consumer together and eliminating the costly middle man; the trading of what you have for what you need. COOPERATION will raise the standard of living, increase the avenues of employment and produce for consumption and not for competition. I favor the statement made hy J. P. Warbasse: "Cooperation rests on the simple principle that we human beings need one another. The positive expression of this human need is cooperation. We human beings need one another; we need not only to be helped by others but we need to help others in order that we ourselves may arise to the highest fulfilment of life." Cooperation introduces the spirit of fellowship between individuals; among races and nationalities. 357 AS Latter-day Saints we cooperate in spiritual matters. Ours is a practical religion. It is applicable "to every-day living. Let us cooperate more perfectly in our temporal affairs, or in other words "live and help others to live." STATISTICIANS claim that women spend three-fourths of the yearly earnings for the maintenance of home and family. Since women wield such a powerful influence, would it not be well to ask yourselves the question: In my expenditures am I cooperatively minded? GOP bless you women of the Relief Society for your labors in caring for the poor, the sick and unfortunate, for your loyal support in carrying forward the Church Security Plan. This is the spirit of cooptween individuals; among races and eration. It is your high task to 10 ror TRIBUTE By Grayce Brown Lindenau Today my Mother-heart pays fond tribute To sister Mother-hearts in life's brief span Whose deeds shape destiny and soul of Man. With deep respect my solemn thoughts salute! And then assuaged and speechless they are still. Hark! Millions of slow footsteps in the cove: Brave lives spent for the good of those they love— My solemn thoughts salute and then are still. Where are Youth's unachieved hopes long since born, Though steps are slowed and hair is silver grey? Where disappointments in grave silence borne And hid with smile's deception, day by day? Lost in the calm of storms long ago spent! In peace, in service earned; in sweet content. Nationalities. CARRY ON! A Daughter Remembers Her Father By Lorene Pearson day living most absent people are quickly forgotten; if a personality does survive for any length of time at all, we think of him or her as an outstanding person. But when a man is remembered, vividly, seventy years after his death, we cannot do otherwise than credit Heber C. Kimball as having been a most remarkable individual. Mary Margaret Kimball Moffatt was only six years old when her father died, yet to listen to her as she recalls him for you, one would think he. Had just stepped out of the room. | NDER the pressure of everywrt was it, I wondered, that so impressed those who knew him? What quality did he possess that he lives today? Puzzled by these questions I asked for an interview with Mary Moffatt, affectionately known to her family and friends as Aunt May. She lives with her daughter and son-in-law, Mr. And Mrs. W. L. Quayle, in Laramie, Wyoming. There, in a living room that spoke in its arrangement, its choice of furniture and lovely house plants, of still another vivid and dynamic personality, I waited for Mary Moffatt. As I waited I could not help feeling that the daughter and the granddaughter, both of whom I already had had the privilege of knowing, someway suggested the vitality and splendid exuberance of Heber C. Kimball. I knew from the biography by Orson F. Whitney and from his own utterances in the Journal of Discourses and elsewhere, that this pioneer leader of early Utah had been a man of immense energy and vision, and that he had been endowed, not only with these attributes, but also with a strong feeling for detail and orderliness—an unusual combination of diverse traits. But perhaps this explains, at least partly, his own achievements, and the very special type of personalities that he seems to have bequeathed to his descendants, at least all of those whom I have met. AND when I saw the charming, white-haired daughter, walk steadily across the floor to grasp my hand, quite as if she weren't 76 and had not been blind for 30 years, J knew that there would be more than the memory of Heber Kimball to play a part in recalling him; there would be also the reverberation of a dominant will to overcome all obstacles. Then, quite as if we had just been talking of her father Aunt May responded to my questions with an instant smile and said, "It seems as if I might just have finished prayer with him. I remember now, particularly, the time he had me kneel by a chair with my brothers and mother. He prayed as if he were talking to God and that God was right in the room. I was so impressed with this feeling that I looked around to see if He were there." Again and again Mary Moffatt referred to this special consciousness that her father was intimate with the Almighty. '""He seemed to open his heart to God and he was always rewarded." The same intimacy that he had with God he seemed to achieve with all with whom he came in contact. There was no person too insignificant, no problem too trivial, to which he did A DAUGHTER REMEMBERS HER FATHER not give his full attention, and, if asked, his best advice. This was true not only ih the growing community of Salt Lake City, but within his own large family. "All father's children," Mary Moffatt volunteered, "had Great love and reverence for him." Mary Margaret Kimball was but six when her father died, yet she can recall him quite as if seventy years had not elapsed. And not only did he talk to them singly, but often he felt called upon to lecture all of them upon conduct, that they might develop a foundation for action that would carry them far in good living. On one occasion, his daughter recalls, he found a pin in the street. Bringing it in, he assembled his families and talked to them of how it was made, and although small, should never be thrown carepersistence in teaching the children 359 lessly away. The habit of thrift, of using every scrap of material goods that was one's portion in this world to the very best advantage, this was his constant emphasis. AND he was the very embodiment of what he taught. Mary Margaret, although she was a very little girl, can remember so well the adobe houses he had built with the row of linden trees planted along the street and the sound of water running in the ditches; but better yet she can remember the neat garden, tilled so carefully by Father Tucker under the supervision of Heber Kimball, and the orderliness with which the storehouse was kept. She can remember taking her little pail and go-, ing to Father Tucker to have him unlock the room where the molasses was kept; he would turn the spigget in the barrel and give her just her portion. ° Everything was handled in this way. Each received his allotment and no more. And he was a big enough man that this rule applied also outside the walis of his own domain. When there was a great famine in the valley one drouth year, he, owning the flour mill, put his family on strict rations and gave away tons of flour to the needy. He was able to see the necessity of considering oneself a part of a whole community, not merely of a small segment like one's family. TIED up with this feeling for proportion and generosity was his belief in the necessity of hard work for every individual. "Just as if it were yesterday," the white-haired daughter said, "I can hear him say, 'the things you have to work for you value'."", Then she told of how industriously her mother worked, how. All of the wives worked, and of their 360 in their care to learn the discipline of labor. Mary Margaret can remember arranging peach halves on a shingle, placing them in the sun, watching them until they were dry and stored away for winter use. UT there was also gayety—in good proportion. Heber Kimball, and other leaders in the Church, had reserved long benches in the old Salt Lake Theatre for their families. The little girl can remember going with her mother. She does not particularly recall any of the plays, she was too young for that, but she does remember an amusing incident connected with attendance. Daniel H. Wells used to sit on his bench nearby, and invariably he brought a bag of candy that he divided up among the kiddies who sat around him. That was a characteristic of all the early Church leaders, and of Heber Kimball in particular—an interest in children. Often the tall, busy pioneer would stop in the street to talk earnestly with a child. "And how important it made us feel,' Mary Margaret said. "I think this attention did more to keep us from doing mischief than anything else. We knew he regarded us with the same consideration as grown-ups and we, respected the responsibility he put' upon us in. This way." Brigham Young also had this deep interest in children. Mary Margaret remembers running along the street with a group of playmates quite a distance from home. The President stopped in the midst of them and said, putting his hand on Mary's head, "I know whose little girl you are. I could tell by those dark brown eyes that you are a Kimball." Of course, Mary Moffatt does not remember the grand balls of those early days, she was too young to attend, but she does remember hearRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ing her mother, Christeen Golden, say sO many times in later years that the happiest days of her life were those she had spent in Salt Lake City with the theatre and balls and dinner parties and a best silk dress. So strong was her attachment to the MARY MARGARET KIMBALL MOFFATT past that in the years that followed, no matter what vicissitudes were her lot, she cleaned herself up every afternoon, and put on a white apron to replace the colored one of the morning—just as she had done when her husband lived. CHRISTEEN GOLDEN, as her daughter remembers her, was a neat, refined, cultured woman, ambitious A DAUGHTER REMEMBERS HER FATHER for her children, and devoted to Heber Kimball. She had been a dressmaker in Philadelphia at the time she first heard the gospel. She was immediately converted, because, as she always afterwards said, it was the most beautiful thing she had ever heard. But it was beyond the understanding of her people; and they could not comprehend why she would leave them and the settled East, to emigrate to the wild West. However, she had the courage of her convictions and gathered to Nauvoo; there she first heard Heber Kimball preach and her faith was not only strengthened a thousand fold, so real was his message, but she found a man to whom she could give her respect. The lasting devotion of Christeen Golden, in common with the other wives could be not better assured than by stating that none of them ever remarried after his death. It was a sad and terrible thing, the death of Heber Kimball, for it broke up his large family and scattered them to far places. Mary Martgaret was ill with pneumonia at the time her father passed away, but she was carried in to him that last day and, in his usual way he talked to her and advised her to accomplish something in her life if she would be happy. His was the first funeral to 361 be held in the yet unfinished Tabernacle. It was a day of clouds and rain. The wives marched in the downpour to the Tabernacle with the coffin and afterwards to the place where he was to be buried. Great crowds thronged the streets and Temple grounds and the cemetery. Mary Margaret was carried to the services. Most vividly she remembers her own grief and the rain but more strikingly yet the end of the 'services in the open. The rain suddenly ceased, and over the new grave a rainbow circled the sky like a halo. Later, Christeen Golden and her boys and little girl moved to Bear Lake to live. But Heber C. Kimball was never forgotten. Several of the wives regularly visited Christeen, and her daughter can remember that years after the husband's death these women would talk and laugh by the hour. They would recall jokes of Heber C. Kimball, ways he had, even the very words he used, just as if he had stepped out of the room not a moment before. PERHAPS no better phrase could sum up the personality of this man than a remark Aunt May often remembers her mother making. "I respected him for he was a man of God." The ingredients of health and long life, are great temperance, open air, easy labor, and little care —Sir P. Sidney. The building of a perfect body crowned by a perfect brain is at once the greatest earthly problem and grandest hope of the race—Dio Lewis. Health is so necessary to all the duties, as well as pleasures of life, that the crime of squandering it is equal to the folly—Johnson. To become a thoroughly good man is the best prescription for keeping a sound mind in a sound body.—Bowen. Trifles Light As Air A Play in Two Scenes and a Foreword By Rosannah C. Irvine CHARACTERS Gossip, an attractive young woman, fashionably dressed. Wisdom, a wholesome, sincere young woman dressed modestly, but in excellent taste. FRANCES, a typical young wife and mother. Eliza, commonly called Lide, friend, and peacemaker. Daisy, knows everybody's affairs and talks all the time. When the girls interrupt her, as they do constantly, she continues talking in an undertone to herself until she catches someone's eye, when she uses a louder tone to hold the attention. BELLE, kind and friendly, but listens to gossip. Sapig, yoodnatured, carefree, irresponsible, and always laughing. Eve, sweet, gentle, and considerate. Karty, sometimes malicious, always likes to create a sensation. Johnny Junior, four year old son of Frances.. A true (The names of the characters in this play are fictitious, chosen at random, If they are the names of any persons, it is merely a coincidence.) (These seven girls have known one another since childhood. There is a deep and sincere affection established through long association. This feeling must be apparent to the audience, in spite of the sharp, ill-natured things they say. Just as children in a united family sometimes quarrel without disturbing the love existing among them.) Foreworp Gossip, (enters, left, in front of the curtain), I am Gossip. I need no introduction. You all know me. I am the most popular person in any group. Iam the center of attraction. I am a particular favorite among people of leisure. I am theatrical. I love to startle people. I have many moods. Sometimes I am pleasant and amiable. However, I am frank to say, I do not enjoy being kind and gentle. It's too innocuous. I prefer to be dramatic and fascinating. The most dull and inoffensive story can be made attractive by the addition of a little spice. And the more one has of spice the more one wants. Many people pretend not to like me. Usually it is only a pretense. My experience is that most people like a touch of slander. Some people try to avoid me. That is because they are afraid they may become too fond of me. Even people who honestly dislike me yield to my fascination if I can win their attention. I am really in my glory if I can attract such people and distort an innocent piece of news into a hateful bit of malice. That is spice, and I love it. Most of you here know me and like me. You see me often. You meet me on every street corner, and at all your parties. I shall be at your next social gathering, I hope. If you are all there, I'm sure I shall be there also. (Exit, left.) Wispom (enters, right, as Gossip disappears), I am Wisdom. You all know me, I think. Most of you are my friends. Unlike Gossip, I cannot say that I am always welcome in every assembly, especially not where she is holding the center of the stage. I am neither amusing nor theatrical. I am more soothing than startling. I do not seek the lime light and seldom am I in it. Many people think I am unfriendly and TRIFLES LIGHT AS AIR austere. I am neither; but I am too reserved and shy to force myseif upon the attention of anyone. It is the part of wisdom to counsel those who desire justice and truth; and I am always eager to assist those who seek me, (exit, right). Scene I (The curtain rises on the well furnished living room of Frances Moore. The room is attractive with plants and flowers. The seven girls, Frances, Eliza, Daisy, Belle, Sadie, Eve, and Kitty are discovered sewing and chatting. They all seem to be talking at the same time.) Daisy (speaking above the din), Did you know that Jane and Harvey have broken up? I saw her last night with Tom. She looked gorgeous. She had on a— (She goes right on talking after the others have taken up the thread of her theme.) Belle, Well, I don't blame him. In spite of her lovely clothes, she's a flat tire. Kitty, Harvey's chasing after that little Jones girl, now. That is, when somebody else gives him a chance. (Kitty, Daisy, and Belle exchange significant glances. Eliza glares at them. Frances does not notice.) SADIE, (hastily), Say, Fan, I haven't seen Junior for months. Can't I just tiptoe out on the sleeping porch and take a peep at him? Frances, I hope he's still sleeping. Be careful not to disturb him. Eve, I want to go, too. I won't waken him. Daisy, Oh yeah! I can't imagine either of you looking at that child without kissing him. Don't let them go, Lide. They'll be sure to— (She goes on talking.) Eve, Don't be a crab, Daisy. Of course we won't disturb him. SADIE, Speaking of crabs, don't you dare to crab my chair while I'm 363 gone (Exeunt Eve and Sadie.) Daisy (continuing in a louder tone, as if she had not even stopped for breath), Fan, you shouldn't have let them go. Of course they'll wake him. Well, I'm going to take her chair anyway, here by the window. I don't care what she says. She can't have everything, the best chair, the best light, and seeing the baby and everything— (She takes Sadie's sewing and puts it on the chair she has just vacated, and seats herself in the other one.) BELLE, Fan, doesn't Johnny come home to lunch? 'Frances, He usually does, but he's doing some extra work at the office right now. And, besides, I didn't want him around today. Kitty, I'll wager he didn't want to come home today, anyway. I have a hunch that he isn't especially fond of this club. Come on, Fan, fess up. He doesn't like us, does he?. Frances (laughing), Well, to tell you the truth, Kit, he says that individually you are all just grand, but, that collectively he thinks we're the worst gang he's ever known. He says we ought to be ashamed to call ourselves the Pleiades. He calls us the Sensational Seven. He says that's more appropriate than naming ourselves for stars whose business it is to shed light and beauty on this dreary world. Kitty, I get it. He not only doesn't like us, he thinks we're a menace. Daisy, Do you really think he thinks that? I'm sure I'm not a menace to— Eliza, Of course you aren't, Daisy. Kitty was just fooling. Daisy, Well, I don't care. If he told Fan— (Sadie and Eve enter each holdin a hand of Junior.), Daisy, There! What did I tell 364 you? You girls ought to— Frances, Junior, darling! Sadie, Fan, he was lying there wide awake.; Eve, Fan, he has the most angelic smile. He smiled at us, and then clambered out of bed. He says he's a Pleiades, and wants to see the party. Daisy, I suppose you rocked him bye-bye again like the good nurses you are—not! You just wait till your children— (The girls all make a fuss over Junior, each giving him a hug and handshake. He is friendly and polite and quite self possessed. Sadie and Daisy have a good natured squabble over the chair. Sadie finally wins and seats herself smiling.) Daisy (grumbling), I always get the worst of everything. I wish I— Frances (taking Junior on her lap), Darling, why didn't you have your nap? Junior, I don't have to have no nap when I'm four years old. Frances, Dearest, you mustn't say that. You should say, "I don't have to have any nap when I'm four." Junior (with conviction), All right! I don't have to have any nap when I'm four. Frances, But darling, you do! You have to have a nap every day, so you'll grow big and strong like Daddy.. Junior, But, Mommie, you said I don't have to have any nap when I'm four. (Laughter.) Bette, You certainly did say that, Frances. He got you that time. You'll have to watch your step with that child. Frances, Run into the bedroom, sonny, and put on your shoes. Junior, All right, Mommie. (Exit.) Betue, Fan, he's the sweetest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE thing I've ever seen. Datsy, You always talk in the superlative, Belle. You'll have to be more careful around this crowd. Most of us have little darlings of our own. My Jean is the cutest thing. Yesterday Charles asked her— Eve, I'd like to steal him, Fan. Suppose you let me have him. I'll give you our house and lot, and a note for a million dollars. Daisy, Just when could you get a million dollars? You know that Styers woman? Well, she went to— Exiza, Oh, Daisy, we've al] heard the story. I don't believe there's a word of truth init... Daisy, Well, it is true whether you believe it or not. You never believe anything, Lide. You're always on the defensive when— Frances (looking fondly at Juntor who is sitting'on the floor near her struggling with his shoes), Not a chance, Eve, much as I think of you. It's almost a sin the way Johnny loves that child. I tremble when I think—if anything should happen— (Kitty and Belle look at each other.) Euiza (belligerently), Nothing's going to happen! He's as healthy as a young cub. And you and Johnny are healthy, sane, and in love. (Kitty and Belle again exchange glances. This time Frances catches the look. She is surprised at Lide's tone.) FRANCES, could happen. Daisy (with a heavy sigh), You never can tell! Such atrocious things happen nowadays. Men fall in love with other— Sapie, Now, Dismal Daisy, remember your failing. Euiza (speaking sharply, at the same time Sadie speaks), Daisy, if you would think more and talk less, Of course nothing TRIFLES LIGHT AS AIR you'd be better off. Why must you vocalize every thought that pops into your head? Daisy, Well, what on earth have I said now? You don't need to all jump on me every time I open my mouth. I only said— FRANCES (uneasily picking up Junior and hugging him), Death is the only thing that could separate us. (then lightly), Who started this anyway? Daisy, There are lots of things worse than death. You know that Dale man? Well, he and— FRANCES (jumping up), Oh girls, I forgot the candy. I made some this morning. Excuse me a minute. Girts (all together), Fan, how lovely! Your delicious candy! Frances, Junior darling, you be a good boy. (Evxit.) Junior (climbing an Lide's lap), All right, Mommie. Daisy, Isn't Fan the innocent one! She's either a mighty good actor or the most simple— Euiza, Daisy, if you don't keep quiet, I'll brain you. - Daisy (grumbling), I never can say anything without you all jumping on— Sapie, Why don't you try it sometime—not saying anything? Daisy (aggrieved), You girls all say such mean things to me, sometimes I think you don't like me. I don't talk half as much— Kirry, Well, I must say Fan must be both deaf and blind not to see what's going on. Exiza, Kit, you ought to be muz zled. You're not a kitten any more. You're grown. Jolinny's a grand person, and he's devoted to Fan. BELLE (pleasantly), Lide, being an old maid, is still an optimist. Sapiz, Meow! Meow! 365 (Frances enters with a plate of candy which she passes around. The girls all take some, and exclaim with delight.) Euiza, Junior darling, do you want a little of it? Junior, No, Aunt Lide, I want a big of it. (Laughter.) Eliza, All right, Sweetness. May I give him'a big of it, Fan? Frances, He may have a very small piece with no nuts. Here's one for you, Precious. (She gives him a piece. The telephone rings. Frances leaves the room to answer it. The girls all begin to talk at once. Above the hum of voices only the following is heard.) Dartsy, It's terrible the way Johnny is carrying on with that Jones girl. If Frances had her wits about her— Eve (Sweetly), Daze, you talk too much, if you know what I mean. Daisy, Oh, I know what you mean all right, but you needn't preach. I saw them the other day and he was— Saviz, Did you know that that Jones girl is flying to Chicago this afternoon? They say she's going to be married. Belle, And will Johnny be disconsolate. It's disgusting the way she runs after him. Sapte, The eternal quest, you know. I feel sorry for Fan. She's too grand a person to have that happen to her. Kitty, Lide, you ought to put Fan wise to what's going on. He's making an awful fool of himself. Eliza, Kitty you ought to be more careful with your tongue. If you love Fan as much as you ought to, you couldn't spread such lies. And besides, (indicating Junior) "Little pitchers have big ears." Juntor, Am I little pitchers, Aunt Lide? That's what my Daddy says sometimes. 366 Eliza, Yes, darling, I'm afraid you are. Juntor, But, Aunt Lide, they hang pitchers on walls. I don't want to be hung. Euiza (laughing and hugging him), Heaven forbid! It's pictures they hang on walls, Precious, not pitchers. Junior, Are my ears very big, Aunt Lide? Kitty, I'll say they are! JUNIOR, (putting his arms around Lide's neck, he whispers in her ear. The girls all stop talking.) Daisy (in an aggrieved tone), Just look at that! I can shout at this gang till I'm black in the face, and nobody pays the least attention. But let even a baby whisper, and every last one of you— Sap1Ee, What's the secret, Junior? Eliza (laughing), May I tell them, Junior? (Junior nods his head) I don't believe it is a secret. It is a pretty wide spread belief. He asked me if all women are liars. (The girls all shriek) Junior (solemly), My Uncle Bill says they are. BetiE, What does your Daddy say? Junior, My daddy says he 'sposes they are, all but Mommie and Aunt Lide. Kitty, Ho-ho! The two perfect women. Junior,. Aunt Lide, when I grow up, will you marry me? (Laughter) Eliza (seriously), I couldn't, Honey. By the time you're a man T'll be an old lady. Probably I'll have false teeth, and a wig and walk with a cane. JUNIOR (with a heavy sigh), Then I see where I'll be a bachelor (Laughter) SADIE, There's a poser for you, Lide. Why break the heart of this gallant lover? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Frances (entering, excited) That was Johnny on the phone. He's just shad a call to meet a man in Chicago. He's flying this afternoon. The plane leaves at five. I'll have to pack his bag. Will you girls excuse me for a few minutes? (exit. The girls look at each other significantly. After a moment's silence they all begin to talk again.) Daisy, Well, ain't that sumpin' I've heard of quick work, but this— Kitty, What do you say to that, Lide? That Jones hussy is going to Chicago on that plane. (Junior takes a box of toys and plays with them on the floor. He pays no attention to the conversation.) Eliza, It is the merest coincidence. Bette, Of course Johnny's hurry up trip to Chicago doesn't prove anything; but it certainly doesn't look so good. Sadie, Why be hard on the poor man. Every dog has his day. Eve, I don't believe half they're saying, but I do feel sorry for Fan. She's such a darling. Kitty, Darling but dumb. If she would only wake up, she might stop all this before it goes too far. Daisy, That's just it. I said to Mrs.— Eliza, For pity's sake, girls, hush! Fan will hear you. Kitty, That's the best thing that could happen to her. lxiza, Do you have to believe and repeat every vile thing you hear? That's a queer way of showing friendship. Slander repeated, is like a snow ball rolling down hill. It gains momentum and volume with every turn over. Belle, It's my friendship for Fan, that makes me want her to know what's going on. Kirry, Even you believe it, Lide. You know you do. You can't deny it. TRIFLES LIGHT AS AIR Eliza, Deny it? Of course I can. Is travelling on the same train with a woman sin? Johnny is the soul of loyalty. (Frances enters unobserved. Hearing the last remark, she backs out hastily.) BELLE (significantly), Well, you ought to know. Kitty, It's enough to convict him in my eyes. I saw them together last night. I bet they cooked it up then. SaptE, Kit, I'd hate to be you. You spend only part of your time with other people. But you're always with yourself. Imagine having to live every minute of your life, night and day, with such a disposition! Kitty, You keep out of this, Sade. You know perfectly well, Lide, that he's crazy about that little snip. He's with her every day. Eliza, Kit, I tell you you're a kitten no longer. You're grown up, and have full grown claws. Kiyty (angrily), Say, Lide, you smile when you say things like that tome! The trouble with you, Eliza, is that you're in love with him yourself. Everybody but Fan knows that, too. Eliza, That's the meanest thing you ever said, Kitty. And it's utterly false. Just because I'm not married, why do you think I'm in love with the husband of my dearest friend? Bee, Everybody thinks it's true Lide. Daisy, Everybody but Fan. She's so innocent that— Eve, Well, I for one don't believe it, Lide. I never even heard it before. Sadie, Every man is innocent in the eyes of the law, until proven guilty. Kirry, Well, Johnny's guilty if you listen to me. Exiza, Kit, I wish, sometime when you're saying disagreeable things, 367 that you would look in a mirror. It would make you change your hateful expression and overcome your mean disposition, Kitty, It's the truth that hurts. And some people can't take it. Daisy, Well, I know that Johnny and that little minx are— Eve (Sweetly), As I often tell you, Daisy, you talk too much. Exiza (harshly), Daisy, you're worse than Kit. Did it never occur to you that silence is a wonderful attribute? (picking up a book from the table) Let me read you something that Fan has marked. Here it is, (reads) "Do thou thyself but hold thy tongue for one day; on the morrow how much clearer are thy purposes and duties; what wreck and rubbish have these mute workmen within thee swept away, when intrusive noises were shut out! That's from Maeterlinck. Daisy (indignantly), Intrusive noises! Well, I like that! As a matter of fact I don't talk any more than any one else. I only say— Bette, I believe that Johnny is in love with that wench, but I really don't know anything. Eve, There's mighty little we do actually know in this world, when it comes right down to it. So we should be very careful what we say. Daisy, Well, I know that if Charles did anything like that to— Eliza, Johnny hasn't done anything, I tell you. Why are you so anxious to destroy the happiness of this family? Eve, Yes, girls, put up your hatchets. Daisy, I only said I thought Fan ought to— Kitty, Where there's smoke there must be some fire. Sadie, I think we had better call this the Tomahawk Club. Or better still, let's lay off other people's faults 368 and try to correct our own. Eve, Today we've certainly lived up to Johnny's opinion of us,—a gang of scandal mongers. Kitty, That's his defense, in case Fan gets wise. (Frances enters. She is pale and trembling. She speaks with cold calmness.) Frances, I think I'm wise now, girls. You've left nothing unsaid. (The girls are overwhelmed with what they have done. They all talk at once.) Eliza, There isn't a word of truth in what has been said, Fan dear. Belle, We were just on a gossiping jag, Fan. I'm sorry. Daisy, I didn't say anything, Fan. Johnny's grand. He only— Sapir, Johnny's all right, Fan, and everybody knows he's crazy about you. Eve, It was contemptible to repeat such silly chatter. Don't believe a word of it, Fan. Kitty (feeling truly guilty and penitent), I'm sorry, Fan, for what I said. Please forget it, and forgive me. We'd better go, girls. (They gather up their sewing. Eliza goes into the bedroom and brings out their hats, etc. All but Eliza exeunt hurriedly, looking chagrined and unhappy. Junior has been playing on the floor. Frances takes him on her lap. She sits rocking nervously.) Eliza, Fan dear, don't mind their gossip. Even Kit doesn't believe it right down in her heart. They all know that Johnny is too wonderful. Frances (interrupting her coldly), You're too ardent a champion to be convincing, Eliza. You are only hurting his cause. You had better go, too. Eliza, Fan, I'm your best friend. Please don't believe what they said. I love you, dear. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Frances (losing her self-control) Will you please go, and leave me alone! I don't need your love nor your pity. (Eliza prepares to go. Junior, realizing that something is wrong, tries to comfort his mother. She hugs him tightly, rocking silently.) Eliza = (leaving __ reluctantly), Good-bye, Frances. Friend, darling. I'm still your (Exit. Frances, still rocking silently with her boy in her arms, begins to sab violently as the curtain falls.) SCENE II Cit is the same room several months later. There are no signs of festivity. Most of the chairs have been removed. There is one small bunch of flowers on the table. Frances is sitting by the window sewing. She appears older and less carefully groomed. She is unhappy and worried. Eliza enters as the curtain rises. There is excitement under her studied calmness.) Eliza (cheerfully), Hello, Fan. How is he today? Frances (coldly), He's about the same, thank you. (Eliza lays a package on the table and then takes her things off.) Eliza, I brought some oranges for Junior. Shall I peel one for him? Frances (in a low, hostile tone), No! He's asleep. Lide, I don't see why you keep on coming here. Eliza (sitting down near Frances), Because, in spite of your unfriendly attitude, I believe that you need me. I'm sorry for you, Fan, and I'm terribly interested in Junior. Frances (harshly), I don't need you nor your pity. I know why you come. So does everybody else. (wildly) You come to gloat over me. (Eliza starts up angrily. Then she gains her self control. She goes to Frances, but does not touch her.) TRIFLES LIGHT AS AIR Eliza (sternly), Frances, you must listen to me. You're letting a crazy idea get possession of you. And if you are not careful, it will drive you insane. You've accused me of loving Johnny. I do love him. I've always loved him. He and I played together when we were babies, and we've been the dearest friends all our lives. I've known him longer than I have you, Fan. I think he's one of the grandest persons I have ever known. But I've never loved him in the way you think. I'm not in love, with him, and never have been. I've never told you a falsehood, Fan, and you ought to believe me now. As a matter of fact, I'm in love with someone else. (She shows Frances a ring on the third finger of her left hand.) Frances (suddenly interested), Really, Lide, are you engaged? That's wonderful. Who is he? Eliza, Arnold Travers. I don't believe you know him. But he and Johnny are good friends. We were engaged once before, and broke up because of a silly misunderstanding. That's when we were in college. Johnny and he and I were there together. We've both been terribly unhappy ever since, but neither would make the first move. It was only when we realized how unhappy Johnny is that we came to our senses. Arnold and Johnny have been together a good deal lately. He wrote me a while ago, asking if he might come to see me. I wired him to come. Frances (weeping), Oh Lide, forgive me. I'm glad for your happiness, but I'm so unhappy. Euiza (sitting down by her.) Of course you are, you foolish girl. (Earnesily,) Fan, I'm going to talk to you, whether you like it or not. You see now that you were utterly wrong about me, and you are dead wrong about Johnny. 369 Frances (hotly), Lide, I've asked you never to mention his name to me. The least you can do is to let me forget. Exiza, I have something to say to you, Fan, and I'm going to get it off my chest before I leave this house. (Frances starts up indignantly), Hold your horses, Fan, and sit down. You might as well listen, for I'm going to keep right on talking. I tell you Johnny is the soul of honor. And loyalty. Even if he were as guilty as you try to make yourself believe he is, he would still deserve a chance to make good with you, because he loves you. You are not perfect yourself, you know. Like loads of other people you wrap yourself around with your saintly hypocrisy. You don't give a hoot what becomes of Johnny, just so long as you preserve your precious dignity. You banish him from home and family, and ruin three lives, because your silly pride has been injured. You turn against the man you love and who loves you far more than you deserve, and the father of your boy. And what's it brought you? Unhappiness! And you deserve all you'll ever get of that. Good people,—people who are truly good, are kind and forgiving. But you're hard and selfish. I'm like Sadie, I don't want to go to heaven if it's going to be full of your kind of good people. Frances (who has been restless during this tirade, springing up indignantly), You can't talk like that to me! I won't stand it! You're a shrew. You talk of kindness. You claim to be my best friend. And when I need friendship and kindness you come here and scold me. You don't know how I feel. You never will know till it comes to you. I won't stand your meddlesome interference in my affairs. If you were as kind as you pretend to be, you wouldn't 370 come here and belabor me, when I need sympathy and comfort. Eliza (sternly), You don't need sympathy and comfort. What you need is a spanking to jar you out of your silly obsession. You've convicted Johnny without a hearing, on the vicious chatter of those silly girls. Frances, The whole town knows about it. And I did give him a hearing. When he came home that day for his travelling bag, I accused him. Of course he denied it, but his guilty looks betrayed him. I needed no further evidence. Eliza, Sure, he looked guilty. Who wouldn't? Suppose he had sprung something like that on you out of a clear sky, you'd look guilty too. Anybody would. Your very indignation and embarrassment would appear as guilt. I told you once before, but you were hysterical and didn't hear me, I suppose, that the Jones girl is Ralph Hodges' step-sister, poor little waif. She has no one on earth but Ralph. She got in with the wrong crowd, and Ralph asked Johnny to look after her. But their going on the same plane was the merest accident. Frances, Oh of course it was an accident. So was his taking her to lunch, and walking home with her nights. I suppose they were all accidents. Or was it his duty to reform her? They both seem to have forgotten that he was married. Eliza, Oh Fan, for pity's sake wake up and use your brain! If Johnny were that kind of a man he wouldn't (She picks up an unopened letter) Why Fan, here's a letter from him you haven't read yet. Frances (snatching it from her, she tears it and throws the pieces in the waste paper basket) No! And I don't intend to. It can go with all the rest., RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Eliza, Haven't you read any of his letters? Frances, No! Eliza, And you've never seen him since that day? Frances, No! And I haven't talked to him on the phone! And I'm never going to see him nor talk to him again as long as I live. (Wildly) I'm through, Lide, I'm through! Finished! And I prefer to manage my own affairs. Eliza (patiently), Frances, even granting that all you have heard were true, which it isn't,—it would still be your duty as his wife to see him and give him a chance. (Impressively) Truly, Fan, I think I do know how you feel. Naturally, believing all the things you heard about him, your love suffered a severe shock. But it's not dead yet. Not by a long shot. I know that, Fan. Frances (doubtfully, after along pause), I don't know, Lide. I wish I did. I don't believe I could ever have confidence in him again. Something inside of me died that day. I thought it was love, but perhaps it wasn't—only joy, and faith, and hope. Eliza (softly), "And the greatest of all is Charity." Frances (earnestly), Lide, I want you to tell me the absolute truth now. Do you honestly believe in Johnny as you claim you do? Would you trust him if he were your husband? Eliza, I'd rather die, Fan, than make a mistake about you and Johnny. I'd stake my life on Johnny's honor and his love for you. Fan, it was just such a tragic mistake that separated Arnold and me all these years. Frances (hopelessly), I wish I could feel that way. But I can't. I'd always distrust him. Oe TRIFLES LIGHT AS AIR Eliza, You must make yourself trust him, Fan. (Junior enters in night clothes and a bathrobe. He looks ill.) Junior, Mommie, won't you let me talk about my Daddy now? Aunt Lide did. (He whimpers softly) I love my daddy, Mommie. I want my daddy. Won't you let him come home again, cause I'm so sick? Please, Mommie. Eliza, Blessed little lamb. Frances (taking him in her arms) Hush, dearest, you mustn't talk. (Eliza takes a shawl and hands it to Frances who wraps it around Junior.) Junior (Sadly), You used to love my daddy, Mommie. Why don't you love him now? Why can't we talk about him? Frances, Darling, you must trust mother. Junior (weeping softly), Uncle Bill says little boys need their daddies. I love you, Mommie, but I love my daddy, too. I can't get well, Mommie, till my daddy comes home. Frances, Hush, darling. Junior, Why must I hush, Mommie? Frances, Because, dearest— Eliza (breaking in), Because, dearest, your mother is a— Frances, Lide! Eliza, Well, you are, Fan, and you know it. You're all the things you think I want to say. (Then casually, as if she had suddenly thought about it) Of course, if you haven't read any of Johnny's letters you don't know what a terrible condition he is in. Frances (startled), What's the matter with him? It he ill? Eliza, Pneumonia—is— Frances, Pneumonia? Oh, Lide, Why didn't you tell me? Is he serious? 371 Eliza, Yes, Fan. The condition— Frances, Where is he? Eliza, The hospital—is— Frances, The hospital! Then he is in a serious condition. Lide, you've been here all this time and never told me! Eliza, I didn't suppose you'd care. You remember you said a few minutes ago that you would never see him nor talk to him again? Frances, Yes, I know. I felt that way then, but somehow I feel different now. Something has happened to me inside—here, (putting her hand on her heart. She puts Junior on the couch). Eliza (in a surprised tone), You're not going to him. Frances, Of course I'm going to him. Eliza, Then you were mistaken. Love didn't die. Frances, (laughing hysterically), I don't know. I feel as if I'd got it worse than ever. (Soberly) If he should die, Lide, I don't think I could ever forgive you for not telling me at once. Eliza (calmly), No, I suppose not. I wouldn't blame you. But I don't think he'll die now—not for a while at least. Frances, Will you stay with Junior while I'm gone? Junior (raising up, eagerly), Where are you going, Mommie? Frances, I'm going to Daddy, Junior darling. Junior, Oh Mommie, are you? Eliza, I'll call a taxi. (exit) (Frances goes into the bedroom. Junior throws the shawl off. He kneels on the couch, raising his face and clasping his hands. His lips move in silent prayer. In a moment or two, Eliza enters. Seeing Junior, she stands quietly until he has finished his prayer. He lies down and she tucks the shawl around him.) 372 Eliza, That's my brave boy. Prayer is a wonderful thing, Junior. It can move mountains. Junior, Has it ever moved any mountains for you, Aunt Lide? (Frances enters. She is dressed for the street.) Frances, Did you call a taxi, Lide? Eliza, Yes, it's out in front, now. (Frances kisses Junior fondly. Then she hugs and kisses Eliza impulsively.) Frances, Bless you, Lide, darling! (Exit) (Eliza picks Junior up. She dances gaily around the room with him in her arms.) Eliza, Junior, darling, it worked! It worked! My prayers have come true! Junior, What worked, Aunt Lide? Did you move any mountains? Let's see. Eliza (taking him to the window. They peek out), Yes, honey-boy, I really believe I have,—a mountain of doubt and unhappiness. See that car, pet? There's a man in that car with your mommie. I'll bet a doughnut he's going to hug and kiss her just as your daddy used to do. There they go. See, they're driving away. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE (Junior begins to cry). Don't cry, lover. They won't go far. Maybe they'll drive around the park, and then they'll come home to their own little lambkin, Junior (excitedly), Is that man my daddy, Aunt Lide? You said he was sick in a hospital. Eliza, No, darling, I didn't say that exactly. Your mommie thought I said that. He's only homesick for you and your mommie. He's been waiting around the corner for the last hour. Junior, Oh, Aunt Lide, I'm glad. That's because I prayed for him, isn't it? Eliza, Yes, sweetheart, I'm sure of it. Junior, Aunt Lide, do you think I could move mountains, if I prayed? Eliza, Of course you could, dear, if you had faith enough, and it was the right thing to do. Junior (excitedly) Aunt Lide, look! They've come back. They're coming in! (Waving and throwing kisses) Oh, Daddy, Daddy! (laughing hysterically) My daddy's come home and I brung him. That's better than moving old mountains. Huh, Aunt Lide? (Eliza puts him down and he runs toward the door, calling, "Daddy! Daddy!" as the Curtain falls.) MY WINDOW BOXES By Della Adams Leitner Smilingly they cheer me All the busy day; Humdrum tasks grow lighter, Burdens slip away. Nodding gay petunias, Pansies every hue, Nasturtiums and verbenas, Forget-me-nots so blue. The garden is so lovely But time for it is rare, So window boxes give me The beauty I can share. Hope Chests By Harrison R. Merrill EVERY woman at some time in her life has had, either real or imaginary, a Hope Chest. This hope chest, as nearly as I can make out, is a cherished receptacle into which goes from time to time precious things—table linens, quilts, dishes, scarfs—against the coming of the great day. I have always thought the practice a good one. I have seen some of those hope chests. Beautiful were they for the fine cedar wood of which they were made and for the wonderful dreams with which they were filled. When a woman marries these receptacles of the dreams of the future often become store-places of the treasures of the past. That is as it should be, no doubt. Dreams have come true, and the memories of their fruition are dear. At that time a different kind of hope chest takes the place of those made of wood. It is a tiny little head out of which look two precious eyes, one on either side of a promising prominence which may some day be a reasonably wellshaped nose above a rose-bud mouth. The girl who once dreamed over her precious linen and silk now dreams over her treasure of flesh and blood. She knows that wrapped mysteriously somewhere in the tiny head is a brain out of which someday must grow a personality. She knows how delicate is the mechanism, if it is a mechanism, how susceptible it is to impressions. That is, she knows —if she is a wise little dreamer with dreams still unmaterialized—dreams of a beautiful, well-mannered girl who will grow into a responsible, sensible woman, or of a splendid boy who may someday be governor or president. Unfortunately, on account of the eagerness of that little brain for materials upon which to feed, many a word, or look, or act goes into the little "hope chest" unknown to the fond mother. On the other hand, she often consciously attempts to slip something into the child's mind and thinks she has done so when in reality it has glanced aside or has been smothered by some other interest. Every fond mother, I hope, when she looks at sonny or daughter sees in him or her a community leader, a wielder of influence in his set. However, many a parent acts as if she expects the influence to be a bad influence. She tells son or daughter how to act and then acts in a contrary manner expecting her words to take effect and her acts not to. I STAND astonished and amazed and subdued in the presence of a baby—anybody's baby. That is the amazing thing—anybody's baby! For some of the least promising have become wonders of the world, and some of the most promising, the disappointment of parents and the world alike. For instance, who could have dreamed that the slave's child hidden away in the bullrushes would one day become one of the world's great leaders and law-givers; who could have foretold that the little hopechest in the three-sided Kentucky cabin would be done in heroic size in marble and would sit forever enshrined both in his country's capital and in the hearts of his countrymen? Of course, the old argument still goes on, the old question is still asked: How much which went to make a Lincoln what he was, was born in him; how much was put in him by his teachings and environment? No one as yet can answer the question definitely, but certainly we have enough data to indicate that environment is important. Lincoln came out boldly and declared: "All 374 that I am and all that I ever hope to be, I owe to my angel mother." Since she died when he was nine, she must have taken great pains with her little Kentucky "hope chest". What a dream come true was he! A MOTHER is on the spot, if I may be allowed to use a slang term. Though undoubtedly she is not responsible for all of the heterogeneous ideas that get stored up in her loved "hope chests", she is responsible for many of them. She may have been entirely innocent, ignorantly innocent, when she gave a twist to a child's thinking which someday led to disaster; but nature, unfortunately, does not excuse the innocent. No matter how innocent one is of the damage that will be done by laying a hand on a hot stove, he will be burned if he does it. These little "hope chests" are so sponge-like in their nature, so absorbent, that they will sop up everything that comes their way. It is a wise mother who goes through the little "chest" occasionally to see what has gone into it and then wisely to remove some of the rubbish before damage is done. Perhaps the child as he grows becomes too acquisitive, he "finds things" every once in a while—brings home tops and marbles and markers which he has "found" somewhere. Little acts like those often betray the contents of the "hope chest." Mary saw her Boy at play; she heard His words, and treasured His deeds and His words in her heart, for they were good deeds, good words. I wonder if she ever had to remove little warped ideas that got in her Son's mind? Some people would cry, "Sacrilege!" But Paul said, "Though He were a Son, yet He learned obedience by the things which He suffered and being made perfect..." and so on. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOW, I am certain I have rambled far enough for my readers to get some inkling of what I have been trying to say. It is merely this: when a girl marries her old hope chest of wood is replaced by little, but much more precious ones of flesh and bone and brain, and that if she is a normal mother she has great dreams for the little ones; she sees them in important places as good men and women, and consequently, she prayerfully goes about the joyous task of filling those little "hope chests" with proper things— ideas which make and build the world as well as the personality. When the time arrives, she sends them to school and Sunday school for further cramming. I have tried to say that we cannot always get the things we want into those little "hope chests"; that often unknown to us, we put ideas in which will cause trouble if by wise and proper methods they are not removed before a character is warped. MY suggestion on how to fill a hope chest of this kind may not be worth much, but here it is: I think the mother and the father, too, for that matter, should live a normal, genuine life without artifice or show. They should know that living the good life is the only way under heaven to teach the good life. They should set their standards by their way of life and expect their children to live according to those standards, not according to what they teach. Dr. George H. Brimhall used to quote the lines, "Your actions speak with such a loud voice I cannot hear your words." Hope chests, yes,—and how precious they are when properly filled with solid, sane ideas which make and remake the world. The Woman Smoker By Virginia B. Jacobsen WITH the astounding increase of women smokers during the past ten years, we cannot help wondering why so many women have taken up the habit in spite of so many rational arguments against it. A few years ago, certain tobacco companies appealed to woman's vanity by their advertisements "to reach for a cigarette instead of a fattening sweet". By capitalizing on woman's desire for slab-like figures, their cigarette sales leaped to unbelievable proportions almost over night. The question is often asked, "Do women smoke because they really like it?' For our own information we have asked some twenty women why they smoke. It is interesting to note that not one of those queried admitted that they smoked because they like it. They wanted to appear good sports, or it seemed sociable, some did it because it was forbidden by parents or teachers, but most of them thought that it was the smart thing to do. It is encouraging to note that several older women, in positions where they have occasion to observe youth in general activities, state that many girls who have smoked are quitting for various reasons. One young woman who had smoked for years said that she had quit smoking. "To prove to myself that I could stop if I really wanted to, I decided to stop smoking for six weeks. During that time when I was around my friends who smoked, I realized how offensive I must have smelled to others. It so disgusted me that I decided never to smoke again, and I have not touched cigarettes for two years. I value my personal attractiveness too highly to allow any unpleasant odor to detract. We shun people with halitosis, B. O., or any other repulsive odor. Why should anyone tolerate the nauseating odor tobacco leaves clinging to the breath, hair, and clothes of the smoker? Any girl who smokes and believes that she is deceiving others is only deceiving herself." A GROUP of college students discussing smoking one day, brought forth some interesting points of view. "I decided that I couldn't afford to smoke any more. I was spending more than enough to keep me in silk stockings, and I never seem to have enough stockings." Said another, "That's one reason I quit. When I realized that I could have about seven good hats, or three dresses, or seven pairs of shoes, or scads of accessories with the money I was spending on smokes, I decided to quit." "You are right about the expense," said another ex-smoker, "but the thing that made me stop was something else. When I realized that I was becoming a slave to a mere habit, that I could not finish a three hour exam but had to hand my paper in unfinished because I had to have a smoke, I decided that it was time I quit smoking. You should see the difference in my marks now that I can finish my exams." "I stopped smoking because I was so fed up with dodging mother and dad and my kid brother for fear they would smell my breath and know that I had been smoking. I felt like a sneak thief every time I went home. If anything was said about 376 it or anyone acted suspicious, I had to pretend that it was because the other girls had been smoking. I feel like an honest woman once again since I quit." MANY medical authorities firmly believe that there are decided ill effects resulting from this unwholesome habit. The startling increase of the cigarette habit among women in recent years has brought about some study of the matter by the medical profession, but perhaps not as extensive study as its importance demands. While some very strong statements have been made by some of these investigators, we prefer to remain silent on the subject until more scientific evidence has been brought forth. Tobacco companies themselves admit in their advertising that tobacco is irritating in several ways. We do not have to go farther than the radio or magazines in our homes to hear and read claims that the injurious elements have been removed from this brand or that. This brand "Does not get on the nerves", that brand "Does not irritate the throat", another brand "gives you a lift". There are countless drugs which will give a "lift" to your tired heart and nerves and muscles, but even the heavy smoker would not recommend using them. And yet, tobacco tends to induce an uncontrollable desire for it just as many drugs do. ATHLETES training for competitive events are forbidden the use of tobacco. If it were not harmful to the body why would those seeking physical perfection and super endurance be so restricted? If tobacco soothed the nerves and quieted them instead of deadening them, athletes under great stress would be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE helped by it. Any stimulant, which puts an added strain upon the heart and nervous system by forcing it to pep up when it is fatigued, is injurious. IT is the general consensus of opinion among the medical profession that smoking may tend to irritate the sensitive tissues of the lips and throat, and in time prove a factor in development of cancer of those parts of the body. As one case helping to prove this supposition, they cite the case of General Ulysses S. Grant who died of cancer of the lip. It was felt at that time as now, that his cancerous condition was perhaps due to his constant smoking. It is interesting to note that cancer of the lip, tongue and throat is rarely found in women, but is usually confined to men. With the increase of smoking among women, it will be important to note, a few years hence, if there is an increase of mouth cancer among women smokers. If there is the slightest possibility that smoking might help to induce cancer, it is reasonable that the finer, more sensitive tissues of women could more easily become affected by such irritation. Any woman who will take up smoking with even the remotest possibility of its producing cancer, is foolish indeed. RECENTLY there appeared in the Believe It or Not column of the newspapers, a picture of a resident of Tampa, Florida, who during the past sixty-five years has smoked an average of ten cigars a day, or a total of 237,000 cigars. Consider what this one man could have done for himself or the world with the vast amount of money he has sent up in smoke. He could have endowed a university, or a hospital THE WOMAN SMOKER for crippled children; established a research fellowship which would have helped to make the world a better place in which to live; collected a fine library; educated several future Edisons or probable Metropolitan Opera stars. This case, of course, is extreme, but it illustrates the vast amount of money spent on tobacco that might be put to better use. "In the light of the great array of accumulating facts as to the wasteful, destructive, degenerating 377 effects of tobacco, it is inconceivable that any woman with a love for life and with a conception of her duty to her family, her fellow men, to the world, and to her God, can continue to smoke." "We make this solicitous appeal to woman to seek to maintain her beauty, charm, and attractiveness, and forever to resist any desecration of her fair body temple, which is to her and her children one of the greatest gifts of God." Two Little Girls in Pink By Ruth Partridge Richan WHEN word came to Nephi that Brother Brigham would come sometime after the 24th the folks all got together and decided to build a social hall in which to entertain his party, and surprise him as well. There were committees for getting rock and putting it into shape for the foundation, committees for making adobies, for getting timber out of the mountains, and so on. Everyone turned in and helped and inside of six weeks the building was up and finished. Now this had been excitement enough for two small girls, Elizabeth Claridge and Sarah Sperry, called "Pet", but now, a real theatrical troupe from Salt Lake City came through and here was a chance to break in the new building. Pet's father led the town orchestra which would play for the actors so the little girls stood a very good chance indeed of seeing the play. And they did see it, not only one night, but every one of the several performances. The hit of the show, as far as Elizabeth and Pet were concerned, was a Scotchman in magnificent attire who did the Highland Fling to the tune of "Old Aunt Sally" with such spirit and abandon that the two young ladies, aged five, could not sleep at night for thinking of it. Big eyed with admiration they nightly watched the intricate steps and when they were alone they practiced them. It happened that one day Sister Burchel spied them dancing and knowing a good thing when she saw it, told her Sister, Bishop Anderson's wife and Sarah Shell who kept the only store in Nephi. These three got their heads together and the upshot of it was that a surprise for the whole town was planned for the 24th of July. There was no time to be lost. Brother Henroid who was in both the band and the orchestra played "Aunt Sally" by the hour and the tiny feet stepped it off. Sister Shell made the long hard trip to Salt Lake City for the costume stuff, all on the quiet. Pet must not even tell her parents, for she was staying with her grandmother Miller when she wasn't at Elizabeth's house, and no one was to be told. This was the hardest 378 part of all, for little girls like to talk as well as big ones. So the great day arrived and the new social hall was again all a-buzz. The seats around the dance floor were jammed for the program. Brother Henroid had persuaded the orchestra leader to teach his men "Old Aunt Sally" not telling them why. There was a lull in the program— everything was ready. There was a great fanfare of trumpets! The double doors of the social hall were pushed open and in skipped two fairy creatures who began at once to dance the Highland Fling! Their dresses, from Salt Lake, were soft pink tarleton. Their tiny short skirts disclosed white fluffy peticoats at every kick. A pink and white dotted scarf went under the right arm and crossed on the left shoulder for a plaidie. Their hair was in ringlets. Small legs in long white stockings twinkled in and out with pink ribbons wrapped in diamond pattern up to the knees and tiny feet capered in black satin slippers. It was decided that the whole thing must be repeated for Brother Brigham when he came. Meanwhile the Scotchman of the theatrical troupe who had inspired all this had hurt his foot and was staying in Ephraim. Bishop Anderson was so enthusiastic that he sent RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for the afflicted thespian and had him teach the dance to the little girls in its entirety and he was paid for his work. At last Brother Brigham came. The brass band went out to meet his party, looking mighty spruce in a new gaily painted semi double-deck band wagon drawn by four beribboned prancing horses, and the bandmen themselves were attired in white suits trimmed with blue braid. The President and his party were brought in state to the new social hall where a band concert and banquet were to be the great events of the day. What a concert! "Nelly Gray", "Hard Times", "Dixie", "Old Dan Tucker", "Do Da Day" and of course "The Star Spangled Banner". Right in the middle of the banquet came the fanfare of trumpets, the doors were flung open, and the tiny girls danced the Highland Fling, their eyes wide with awe at the great man who sat at his table on the stage and watched them so intently. After it was over the floor manager and the door keeper handed up the panting little sprites to Brother Brigham and there they sat, one on each knee, and looked into his blue eyes. It was later, much later, that Elizabeth and Pet learned that the President had wished to take them back with him to dance in the Great Salt Lake Theater, but their parents said no—even to Brigham Young. The wages lost, the work spoilt, the health ruined through drinking He who has health, has hope; and he who has hope, has everything. —Arabian Proverb. Look to your health; and if you have it, praise God and value it next to a good conscience; for health is the second blessing that we mortals are capable of—a blessing that money cannot buy; therefore value it, and be thankful for it—Isaak Walton. Are beyond computation.—Sir Thomas Oliver, M. D.: Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? HOPE-CHESTS Take Time For Preparation By Lella Marler Hoggan "Happiness is the perfume of the rose of love."—Dr. Frank Crane. THE first romance, according to the Holy Record, began in Eden when the Creator gave Adam the woman he was to love and cherish, the woman who was to become the mother of the human race. When Adam and Eve walked out of the sheltering security of Eden, they went hand in hand into a new world of trials and obligations. Their great loss did not dissolve the holy relationship that held them together. Humanity, following in their footsteps, has made a beaten path that is destined to go on forever. It is the oldest path in all the world, the most luring and altogether the most romantic of all of the roads of destiny. It is a sacred and a beautiful undertaking when a man and a woman 380 join hands and begin the journey down this old, old road. All along the way they will find tasks and responsibilities and sometimes disappointment and sorrow; and it will require strength and courage and great faith to complete the journey successfully. But there will be sunshine as well as shadow all the way, because you must remember, it is a path of romance—and paths of romance are always filled with lovely surprises and high adventure. After all the years, marriage is still one of the institutions for which there is no legitimate substitute. Around it time has woven poetic beauty and romantic dreams that make it more hallowed than any other experience. WHILE the little girl is still crooning lullabies to her dolls, she begins to build the hopes that will eventually shape her life. As she grows older the dream becomes more vivid and colorful, until it finally materializes into a reality. She finishes dainty bits of linen and selects small household treasures to be stored away in her hope-chest with reverent anticipation of the greatest event of her life. What a wealth of lovely traditions cluster round about the sacred drama! What tender sentiment and prayerful planning should enter into her happy preparations! The beautiful creations that go into the hope-chest are only a meager part of the wealth that she is stowing away. The richer dowry is the treasure of heart and mind and soul that is daily becoming a part of her possessions. And while she is garnering these priceless gifts, somewhere, a companion is making happy plans of the home he will someday build for the woman of his dreams. Into that little House of Joy must go all of his idealism, all of his high hopes, all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of his glad wholesouled service. And out of her precious hope-chest must come all of the beauty, and the perfume, and the refined loveliness of life, with which to furnish the creation of their hearts. THE building of a little House of Happiness is a solemn adventure for a man and a woman to undertake. They want to make sure that it rests upon a solid foundation of enduring sentiment and Divine approval, and that only genuine, wholesome materials shall be used in its construction. One can scarcely hope that a house of shoddy materials thrown together hurriedly will last through eternity. To make it a work of enduring art requires much time and prayerful effort. It must be the best that earnest hands and hearts can provide, a place of peace and joy and security, a hallowed, permanent institution. For who can say what little feet may patter over the sunny floors, and what songs and laughter may echo from the cheery hearth? Who can know how long a line of descendants may march through the halls of this little House of Joy? Or what illustrious characters may be sheltered under its humble roof? Is it not possible that a poet, a statesman, or a prophet of this lineage, may supply a pattern of life for the comfort and the blessing of the children of men? Then, too, life is full of stern realities. Sorrow may cross the quiet threshold, and promised joys may slip away, like sand through the fingers. When a man and a woman go down into the shadows they begin to fear that, after all, life is not made of star-dust and roses as they had hoped it would be. But if they have realized their inspired ideal in the erection of the little House of Life, they need have no fear, for it will stand against the sternest fate. LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY "For like a child, sent with a fluttering light To feel his way along a gusty night, Man walks the world. Again and yet again, The lamp shall be by fits of passion slain; But shall not He who sent him from the door Relight the lamp once more? —Edward Fitzgerald. Love fears no evil. Is she not cooperating with the Divine in the high adventure of life? Resting in 381 this security she waits joyously to set forth on the beaten path of the ages. Her deft fingers are prepared to weave the happiness that will go into the chest of hope. Her strong white hands are ready to polish the windows and the shining hearth in the little House of Life. With love forever in attendance, the man and the woman may enter with assurance on the open road to Joy. "If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?"—Shelley. From the Ends of the Earth By Vesta P. Crawford "Here in my varied garden, Row on row and bed by bed, The flowers of all nations In gorgeous bloom are spread." FROM the ends of the earth northward and southward, east and west, flowers have been assembled to beautify the American garden. From far-off mountain tops and distant lonely swamp lands; from foreign deserts and alien meadows have come the radiant blossoms to meet together in cultivation. America has been called the melting pot of the world because so many nations have contributed to build its commonwealth. "From afar, gracious Lord, thou hast gathered thy flock," says the beloved hymn. And yet the nationalities of people within our borders are few when compared to the multitudes of flower families represented. Europe and Asia, Africa and Australia, the Far East, and even the polar regions and the islands of the sea have sent us rare blossoms that bloom as if long ago they had forgotten their native homes. Even our most familiar garden flowers are descended from plants older than the pyramids of Egypt, older than the Indian ruins of Peru and Mexico. Do you know that the tri-colored pansy, the gorgeous dahlia, the bright nasturtium, the tulip and the zinnia, and even the geranium, as we know them now, are not native to our shores but have descended through a long line of alien ancestors? On any day, in fall or spring, or summer, you may walk in an American garden and see the blossoms that have been brought from the ends of the earth. You may take a world tour in your own backyard. IT is very interesting to know that a large and varied group of flowers come to us from the shores of the Mediterranean Sea, from the historic countries that border the waters once called "The Great Sea." One cannot mention that sea without thinking of great events of history that have occurred in the land "roundabout." There in olden days came the ancient Aryans from the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AMERICAN POND LILIES IN THE HIGH MOUNTAINS "cradle of the race" in the mountains to the east! There, it is said, the walls of Troy were built; there flourished the art of Greece and the splendor of Rome; and there, on the borders of that sea, Jesus lived, and in Mediterranean countries his disciples carried the Gospel message. It is from the shores of the Great Sea that the snapdragons of our garden (Antirrhinuim majis), and calendula, carnations, candytuft, and stocks and wallflowers and Centaurea (bachelor buttons) have come. Ancient Egypt has sent us fragrant mignonette in blossoms of red and white and the tall callas with a flower cup of smoothest creamy velvet. Palestine is the home of the gorgeous cyclamen which we raise indoors, and from the Holy Land come also tulips and hyacinths, the narcissus and daffodils and gladiolus. The crocus is of Chaldea, that land across the desert from Palestine where two great rivers, the Tigris and the Euphrates, empty their waters into the Persian Gulf. The hollyhock has for ages decorated the lonely ravines of the land of Syria and Henry Van Dyke tells us that the valleys are like "an embroidered sash of bloom laid across the sackcloth of the desert." The Rose of Sharon (Althea syriacus) is a native of the Holy Land, particularly abundant in the rugged canyons that slash the blue ranges beyond Jordan. FROM South Africa come the crimson and scarlet blossoms of amaryllis and the pelargoniums, parents of the familiar pot plant that we call the geranium. Not so well known are the mesembryanthemums, purple and bright red and golden orange, and the Montbretias, (Tritonia), which are relatives of the iris and bear blossoms of red and pink and tawny yellow. Every year some new bloom from the farthest point of Africa is brought into America and planted in our gardens. CHRYSANTHEMUMS are of the Far East, the national flowers of Japan where they are grown in great diversity of form and color. Gardenias, those most exotic flowers, come from China, and many poppies, too, are oriental. It must not be thought, however, that all our adopted flowers come to us directly from the lands of their nativity. Some traveled strange paths and were long cultivated in Germany or Holland or France or some other European country before they were brought westward across the Atlantic. PRIMROSES seem to be typically English and of these flowers the poet Wordsworth wrote: "A primrose by a river's brim A yellow primrose was to him And it was nothing more." But some primroses come from Asia and from the mountains of continental Europe. Primrose elatior, the English primrose, is yellow. Snowdrops and some violets are English and the pansy there is called "heartsease." Certain varieties of daisies grow in England, too. It was Bliss Carman, the Canadian poet, who wrote these lines about daisies: "The bobolinks rallied them up from the dell, The orioles whistled them out of the wood; And all of their saying was, 'Earth, all is well!' And all of their dancing was, 'Life, thou art good.'" 383 SOUTH AMERICA has sent us a varied measure of rich blossoms, Portulaca (grandiflora) and canna (iridiflora); velvety gloxinias from Brazil and petunias from Argentina. Tigridia, the tiger flower, which resembles both the iris and the lily, is older than the Aztecs who treasured it because its bulbs were delicious to eat. The nasturtium, one of the very oldest of our flowers, is from Mexico and South America. There it flourished when the Mayan empire was at the height of its glory. Ageratum and cosmos and marigolds and poinsettia are from Mexico, and perhaps, also, the gorgeous tuberose. IT may be that the Mexican ancestor of our garden zinnias might find difficulty in recognizing the flowers that are his posterity. Certainly the first zinnias were not so double and so intricately petaled and strangely colored as our modern blossoms. And dahlias, too, have followed a road of change. A Spaniard saw the small crimson flowers in the mountains of Mexico and he took the seeds to his homeland and planted them in his garden. Then dahlias were grown in Germany and France and England and finally brought to the United States. It is a strange long road, a path of mystery, sometimes, that the flowers have traveled to come at last into our American gardens. If the mind, that rules the body, ever so far forgets itself as to trample on its slave, the slave is never generous enough to forgive the injury, but will rise and smite the oppressor.—Longfellow. Everyone can tell when the moon is full, but it takes a conference of scientists and doctors to define when a man is.—Canadian White Ribbon Tidings. The man who follows Booze as a hobby will have Poverty as a Playmate.—"Cobbers." Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon JUNE—Attar of roses, songs of birds, cloudless skies Velvet touch of golden butterflies Messengers of heaven— Is this earth or is it Eden? THE Golden Rule Foundation presume each year to designate the outstanding mother of America. Last year California claimed the "Queen Mother;" this year the state of Nebraska. According to the rating system of the Foundation, estimable as these two mothers are, there are millions of American mothers with equal qualifications. Every man will tell you 'There never was a mother like mine." HELEN KELLER is touring the Orient, giving lectures and introducing a newly developed "talking book" to Japan's 200,000 blind. As she embarked at Yokohama a culprit stole her purse. In returning the loss the embarrassing incident afforded the ultra polite Japanese an opportunity for apologies, in which art they are past grand masters. PRINCESS Elizabeth of England, recently celebrated her eleventh birthday. Perhaps no living child receives such care. Her education and training is a reminder of that of her great, great-grandmother, Victoria, while though further removed from the crown. There was always the possibility of succession in mind. MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN and Alice Louise Reynolds were the two women, among ten alumni members of the Brigham Young University signally honored for distinguished service this year. AMY JOHNSON, noted aviatrix, is studying the Weem's system of celestial navigation, at Annapolis preparatory to entering the New York-Paris derby in August, commemorating the tenth anniversary of the Lindbergh flight. HELENE MAYER of California has won for the third time the U. S. Women's fencing championship. PHILIPPINE women have won by popular vote their suffrage. MARY TEASDEL, artist, died last April. In the city library at Smithfield, Utah, there is a choice collection of her paintings which like a memorial will ever be a reminder of the unusual talent of this gifted daughter of the pioneers. DR. ROSALIE S. NORTON in her interesting auto-biography gives credit to American women, physicians and mothers for leading the world in public health, sanitation, and a sane fight against disease. MARGARET MITCHELL'S "Gone With The Wind," was awarded the Pulitzer prize for the best novel of 1936. No one was surprised but the author, for seldom, if ever, has a book had such a sale. JOAN HASLIP has written "Parnell," one of the outstanding biographies of the year. MRS. KATHERINE PYPER PRESTON, and Mrs. Emma Jensen, two notable Utah women died this spring. Both prominent in church and club work. General Relief Society Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements STAKE, WARD AND MISSION REPORTS YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1936 Julia A, F. Lund—General Secretary Balance Cash on Hand January 1, 1936: Charity Fund $ 44,138.99 General Fund 97,599.08 Wheat Trust Fund 10,141.52 Stake Board Funds 36,376.71 Total $ 188,256.30 Cash Receipts: Charity Fund $69,620.64 General Fund: Contributions $ 97,959.55 Annual Dues 25,733.06 Other Receipts 50,169.91 Total General Fund Receipts 173,862.52 Stake Board Receipts 52,812.47 Total Cash Receipts 296,295.63 Total Cash To Account For 484,551.93 Cash Disbursements: Charity Fund 66,189.48 General Fund: General Expenses 110,542.82 Annual Dues 27,524.67 Other Disbursements 24,227.75 Total General Fund Disbursements 162,295.24 Wheat Trust Fund 2,465.37 Stake Board Disbursements 49,966.41 Total Cash Disbursements 280,916.50 $ 203,635.43 Balance Cash on Hand December 31, 1936: Charity Fund $ 47,570.15 General Fund 109,166.36 Wheat Trust Fund 7,676.15 Stake Board Funds 39,222.77 Total $203,635.43 Merchandise Received $ 20,319.05 Merchandise Disbursed 13,364.20 Balance on Hand $ 6,954.85 386 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION STAKE, WARD AND MISSION REPORTS AT DECEMBER 31, 1936 ASSETS Cash on Hand, All Funds $ 203,635.43 Cash on Hand, Presiding Bishop's Office 407,423.82 (Wheat Trust Fund) Other Invested Funds 35,307.91 Total 646,367.16 Real Estate and Buildings $167,834.91 Furniture and Fixtures 92,268.10 Total 260,103.01 Other Stake Board Assets 61,196.24 Other Assets 36,154.29 Total 97,350.53 Total $1,003,820.70 LIABILITIES Indebtedness $ 332.23 Stake Board Net Assets 100,419.01 Balance, Net Assets 903,069.46 Total $1,003,820.70. STATISTICS Membership: January 1, 1936: Executive Officers 15,236 Visiting Teachers 24,602 Other Members 32,255 Total Membership January 1, 1936 72,093 Increase: Admitted to Membership During Year 9,415 9,415 Total Membership and Increase 81,508 Decrease: Removed or Resigned 7,491 Died 955 Total Decrease 8,446 Membership: December 31, 1936: Executive and Special Officers 15,711 Visiting Teachers 24,860 Other Members 32,491 Total Membership December 31, 1936 73,062 The Total Membership Includes: General Officers and Board Members 26 Stake Officers and Board Members 1,338 Mission Presidents and Officers 102 Number of Stakes 118 Number of Missions 32 Number of Relief Society Ward and Branch Organizations 1,782 ANNUAL REPORT 387 Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts 13,721 Number of L. D. S. Families in Wards 142,942 Number of Relief Society Magazines Taken 40,075 Number of Executive Officers Taking Relief Society Magazine 6,484 Number of Meetings Held in Wards 62,867 Number of Stake Meetings Held 2,252 Number of Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held 1,216 Number of Ward Conferences Held 1,427 Average Attendance at Ward Meetings 31,784 Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers 986,687 Number of Families Helped 15,152 Number of Days Spent with the Sick 39,929 Number of Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound 215,260 Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial 1,917 Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers 6,690 COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS 1934 1935 1936 Paid for Charitable Purposes $62,608.95 $ 66,863.86 $ 66,189.48 Total or Present Membership 70,515 72,093 73,062 No. Of Relief Society Organizations 1,728 1,744 1,782 No. Of Relief Society Magazines Taken 30,449 35,899 40,075 No. Of Days Spent with the Sick 44,397 43,996 39,929 No. Of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound 222,630 228,871 215,260 No. Of Families Helped 17,284 16,647 15,152 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Officers to Wards 6,089 6,113 6,690 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Visiting Teachers 972,488 994,261 986,687 DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY Stakes Missions Arizona 2,647 Argentina 100 California 3,056 Australia 187 Canada 1,392 Canada 134 Colorado 491 Germany 134 Idaho 6,635 Mexico 165 Montana 905 New Zealand 497 New York 165 Samoa 442 Oregon 186 South Africa 132 Utah 38,436 Tahiti 415 Wyoming 1,460 Tonga 159 United States 5,979 Total Membership in Stakes 59,725 Total Membership in Missions 13,337 Total Membership in Stakes and Missions 73,062 (Note: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various Wards, with the exception of the Annual Membership Dues.) Gold that buys health can never be ill spent; nor hours laid out in harmless merriment—J. Webster. A sound mind in a sound body; if the former be the glory of the latter, the latter is indispensable to the former.—Tryon Edwards. To preserve health is a moral and religious duty, for health is the basis of all social virtues. We can no longer be useful when not well—Johnson. Notes From the Field Julia A. F, Lund—General Secretary Northcentral States Mission. A REPORT of most successful activity in the Relief Society of the Northcentral States Mission comes from the President, Sister Elfie S. Richards. During the past season the sisters have been most active in their Magazine campaign, in the Church Security work, and in carrying through the educational program of the Relief Society. The following explanation of the Relief Society colors, blue and gold, comes from the pen of Sister Richards: "Our Relief Society colors—Blue and Gold—what priceless things they stand for. Gold—for wheat that women gathered and stored for 42 years. Gold—for the hearts of the women all over the church who serve so unselfishly. Gold—for the golden thread of testimony that makes all things possible. Gold—the distinction of royalty— the mark of intrinsic value of every department of our work to every active member. Gold—the legal tender of service MRS. ELEANOR SEEGMILLER AND HER SEVEN DAUGHTERS NOTES FROM THE FIELD THESE TEACHERS WEATHER THE STORM that makes alive our motto: "Charity never Faileth." Blue—for the truth of the Gospel that turned the key for women. Blue—for the loyalty of every member who has the true spirit of Relief Society work. Blue—like the canopy of heaven whose achievements cover 95 years of progress. Blue—for bluebirds of happiness in homes whose ideals are the Gospel standards. Blue—the forget-me-not that brings the 'human touch' to the needy, sick, sad and lonely. Blue—for our trust in our Heavenly Father's care. St. George Stake. THE Spring of the year is Daughters' Day in Relief Society. This is a most delightful observance and quite true to the spirit of Relief Society work. The picture on the opposite page from the St. George Stake is a beautiful example of what Daughters' Day may mean in Relief Society. Sister Eleanor J. Seegmiller, for fourteen years Stake Secretary of the Relief Society, is the proud mother of seven lovely daughters, all active in Relief Society or other auxiliary work in the Church. We congratulate Sister Seegmiller on this beautiful demonstration of Motherhood. Franklin Stake. SPEAKING of Visiting Teachers, we are reminded again of one of the most unique and beautiful customs in Relief Society. Reports come from many parts of our widely separated groups telling of the devotion of the Visiting Teachers and the lovely service they render. The above picture is an eloquent testimonial of all that is fine in this service. It was taken during the recent Spring, when the sisters were visiting their districts. To quote from the description accompanying the photograph: "These teachers weather the storms. No blizzards, snow drifts nor rain stop them from making their visits each month. In Summer they generally walk through their district, and it covers a distance of more than two and a half miles. This is often quite as great a test of endurance as the Winter storms when one considers the heat and dust. In 1936 these two sisters had 100% record for visiting teachers." We congratulate this Stake and Ward in having Sister Zepha B. Peterson and Venus W. Skinner. 'They are surely angels of mercy bringing good cheer to the homes they visit." Maricopa Stake THE picture below is a group of members of the Papago Ward Relief Society in the Maricopa Stake. A very interesting chapter on Relief Society work in relation to this group may be written. Through the efforts of the Stake President, Sister Shupe, and Sister RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Hicks of the Stake Board, the women have participated most enthusiastically. Their handwork is beautiful, and is, to a great extent the preservation of their native arts. They have also developed a fine group of Singing Mothers. The lesson work is presented, and many of the sisters take a keen interest in this. A library has been organized and many things which look for fuller development are in the offing this year. Garfield Stake THE Garfield Stake reports a very successful year in Relief Society work. The program is drawn for a whole year's work with those things which have the greatest significance in the different months considered. In September, clothing for children is considered and a discussion offered on hygienic clothing and how the general health and posture of children may be influenced by the type of fabrics and clothes which they wear. October, inexpensive art work that has for its purpose home beautification and making the best use of that available. November, PAPAGO WARD RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES FROM THE FIELD 391 best toys and their selection for the children of all ages. December, suitable candies and cookies for children, and the making of proper Christmas baskets for the shut-ins and old people. January, winter vegetable preparation, and a study of the types of balanced diets. February, rug making, with attention to proper color combinations and different kinds of rugs, braided, crocheted, hooked, etc. March, the cleaning and proper storing away of winter clothing to prevent moths, etc. April, a general clean-up day in Relief Society and Church buildings. June, simple draperies and kitchen curtains, suitable styles and fabrics in relation to colors, etc. July, entertaining children through summer outings, etc. August, the exchange of patterns and unusual recipes for making the less known articles of household consumption. These activities were climaxed by a fine display held at Conference. French Mission AN interesting account of how the Relief Society work is progressing in the French Mission comes from the President, Sister Hannah Ursenbach. With the exception of one branch, the organization is conducted by local sisters, who have a very progressive outlook, and seem to grasp the meaning of Relief Society work and carry it on very energetically. The printed copies of the lessons have been received, and the courses are followed just as nearly as possible. In some of the districts Union Meetings are held each month, and a representative from each Relief Society in the district is in attendance. The lesson work is given by one of the sisters, who presents it in a very intelligent and interesting manner. The sisters of the Mission are very grateful for the opportunities offered them, and for the materials which are sent to aid them in their regular courses. Notes to the Field Mormon Handicraft MORMON HANDICRAFT was a dream, then a plan and is now a reality. It has opened its friendly doors to all, especially the visitors to our city. Its beautiful setting overlooking as it does the Temple grounds is very advantageous. This and its worthy unselfish purpose should assure its success. IT has been organized to help meet the crying need for more income and more ways of supplementing and adding to the family resources. Our people have been drawn from many different lands and they have brought their characteristic traits and talents with them. Many are gifted and artistic and do excellent handwork. Mormon Handicraft affords a market for this work and has been instituted primarily for this purpose. In order to be self-maintaining it must retain a small amount of the proceeds when the articles are sold. It is hoped that it will be possible to reduce the amount of the retainer when experience proves that it can operate on a smaller amount. The movement has great possibilities for developing new avenues of employment. While our women have always made fine quilts, this should create a demand for many more. The same might be hoped for other things such as rug making, sewing, needle work, pottery, wood carving, painting and sculpture. The making of jellies and jams from native fruits, ground cherry preserve like pioneers made can be featured. Dried corn, candy, honey, figs and sorghum should prove salable and might develop into an industry at points where materials are found and are available. THE General Board appreciates the loyal and hearty cooperation that has been given by many stakes, wards and individuals. St. John's Stake, Arizona, was the first to take out a membership. It was followed closely by North Weber and its 8th Ward. Highland Stake brought many fine articles with its application for membership. Wasatch Stake brought in a variety of aprons. Sister Broadbent, of Wasatch Stake, was the first individual to proffer an article for sale. Granite Stake has the distinction of being the first to take out a membership for the stake and for each ward in the stake. IT is hoped that our fine workmen will avail themselves of the opportunity to turn the work of their leisure time to profit without leaving their homes. Not only will it add to their income but it will increase their skill, their power to do and through exercising their self-expression happier, fuller living will result. IT can be a challenge to all our people to develop their talents and latent possibilities; to create and make things of a high standard of excellence. "By their works ye shall know them." These articles displayed and offered for sale will be the banner of the Mormon people to the world. Emerson said that if a man makes even a mouse trap better than any one else the world will beat a path to his door. WE trust that each member of our great Relief Society organization will use her leisure to grow to full stature of her possibilities. As Walter Pitkin quotes an old English saying: "Rest is not quitting the busy career, Rest is the fitting of self for one's sphere." Mormon Handicraft is organized to aid you; to encourage you by making a market for your hand work. Work and Business Department— Knitting: HAVE you ever tried a knitting exchange? If not you will find it a very profitable and enjoyable experience for a Work and Business Meeting. Have members bring knitting to meeting and then exchange their patterns and instructions with one another. At the same meeting a fashion show of knit dresses and sweaters, as well as a display of knit articles, adds much to the occasion. Hand knit dresses are among the most durable and inexpensive clothing, as well as the most fashionable. At a recent fashion show of "knits" in a large department store, the average cost of material was $5.00. There were dresses and sweaters for all occasions and they were truly beautiful. Knit children's and baby clothes are very durable and comfortable. They launder well and are especially good for school. One may obtain from the local merchants illustrated booklets on knitting which give full detailed instructions on how to make the articles illustrated. These booklets contain many suggestions, and ideas for things not illustrated for those who are interested and quick to see possibilities. The following is a practical list of these booklets: "Hand Knits" Vol. 97, price 15c. Resort Fashions, published by the Bear Brand and Bucilla Yarns. "Fleishers Classic Hand Knit"— THE FIELD 393 Both Men and Women's clothing, Price 20c. "Bernat's Handicrafter," Price 25c. "Minerva Capri Book," price 25c. "Fleishers Children's Book," this is very fine, and has everything for children. Vol. 33, price 25c. "Fleishers New Hand Knits for Youth (Girls)," price 25c. "Fleishers New Fashions in Hand Knits," Vol. 45, price 25c. (This is very complete and beautifully illustrated.) "Knitted Creations," by Nantung, designs for men and women, price 25c. We must not forget shawls. Is there anything lovelier to wrap a baby in than a fluffy knit white shawl? Undoubtedly many women will like new patterns for these and will bring shawls for display. Enlistment Committee EFFICIENT Enlistment Committee Gets Results," is the very intriguing title under which Sister Elizabeth McKay Hill discusses this very important work in Relief Society. We are very grateful to Sister Hill for the following account of this fine service, and the office heartily endorses it: "Enlistment work" in the Bonneville Stake under the capable leadership of Ella Coulam is one of our strongest departments. Sister Coulam is a past President, and a woman blessed with the gifts of vision, wisdom and tact. "A committee of four with one acting as Chairman is chosen in each Ward and it is their duty to learn and interest all who are not attending Relief Society. A card catalogue is compiled containing the name, address and telephone number of each woman living in the Ward eligible 394 for Relief Society Membership, and by comparison with the roll the committee is aware of the women whom they should interest through personal contact. "It is suggested that the teacher supervisors call members of the enlistment committee to accompany the regular visiting teacher when her companion cannot go. This enables the enlistment committee members to visit all parts of the Ward and gives them an opportunity to broaden their acquaintance and interest new members. On regular meeting day, the enlistment officers act as a reception committee and introduce to the presiding officers and other members all new-comers and those not acquainted. Nominations for membership may be made by the enlistment committee members. "On Union Meeting days, the Stake Board member invites a representative from each of the Ward Committees to help receive at the door, so that to each one who attends, a familiar hand is extended and introductions are exchanged enabling all to become Stake conscious as well as Ward conscious. "The Relief Society Handbook is used as a guide in class work at Stake Department meetings; each committee member learns what Relief Society really stands for and can therefore talk intelligently on the subject. "When Bonneville Stake was organized in 1935, we had an enrollment in our Relief Societies of 435. At the close of 1936 our enrollment was 480. During the year two new Wards were organized from Yale and LeGrand Wards, creating Yalecrest and Gilmer Park; as a result, Gilmer Park enrolled 19 new members and Yalecrest 24 new members. "For January, February, March, 1937, due to enlistment work, Thirty-third Ward has 6 new members, Yale Ward 6, Yalecrest 7, Emigration 3, LeGrand 11, and Gilmer Park 2. "We will ever owe a debt of gratitude to Myrtle B. Shurtliff, who was instrumental in starting this work in 1922, when she was President of Liberty Stake, our Mother Stake." LESSONS FOR 1937-38 The Ministry of the Savior. In the Theology Department the following lessons will be studied: 1. Some Mormon Contributions To An Understanding Of The Life And Teachings Of Christ. 2. Some Mormon Contributions To An Understanding Of The Life And Teachings Of Christ. (Cont'd.) 3. A Supreme Rule of Life—The Law Of Brotherhood. 4. The Use Of Parables In Christ's Teaching. 5. Some Thoughts On, Prayer And The Reign Of Law In The Master's Teaching. 6. Christ And The Doctrine Of The Resurrection. 7. Christ And The Atonement. 8. The Second Advent Of The Messiah. 9. The Influence Of The Christ On Civilization. The main references for this course are: Bible. Book of Mormon Doctrine and Covenants. Pearl of Great Price. Gospel Doctrine—Smith. The Way to Perfection—Smith. Jesus The Christ—Talmage. The Articles of Faith—Talmage. An additional list of reference books found in the different lessons which will be very helpful for comparison for those who can get access to them follows. Some are not available even to those who have money to purchase them, but some of them will doubtless be found in the seminary libraries. Critical Introduction to the Old Testament—Gray. Introduction To The Old Testament—McFadyen. Literature Of The New Testament —Scott. New Testament Criticism—Dana. Jesus of Nazareth—Klausner. Experience With The Supernatural In Early Christian Times—Case. The Teachings of Jesus—Rall. Notes on the Parables of our Lord —Trench. The Parables of Jesus—Goebel. The Parabolic Teaching of Christ —Bruce. The Parables of Jesus—Buttrick. Why I Believe in Religion— Brown. Religion and The Mind of Today —Leighton. The Mediation and Atonement— Taylor. The Art of Florence—H. H. Powers. Great Books—F. W. Farrar. TEACHERS' TOPIC In the Teachers' Topic certain traits and dispositions of the Master will be given. The following are the topics: 1. The Strength Of Jesus. 2. The Firmness Of Jesus. 3. The Optimism Of Jesus. 4. The Courage Of Jesus. 5. The Reasonableness Of Jesus. 6. The Humility Of Jesus. 7. The Patience Of Jesus. 8. The Poise Of Jesus. 9. The Friendship Of Jesus. 395 LITERATURE In the Literature Department Biography will be continued with the following lessons: 1, 2, and 3—Sacagawea. 4 and 5—Log Cabin Lady. 6, 7, 8, and 9—The Romance Of An Old Playhouse. These volumes may be secured at the Deseret Book Store at the following prices: Star Of The West, Sacagawea $1.00 postpaid Log Cabin Lady $1.25 postpaid The Romance Of An Old Playhouse $2.00 postpaid If the entire course is purchased at one time the price to Relief Society is $4, postpaid. MISSION LESSONS The Mission Lessons in Biography are as follows: 1. Margaret Bach Huefner. 2. Jennette Evans McKay. 3. Magdalena Straubhaar Schwendiman. 4. Melissa Jane Lambson Davis. 5. Margaret Stalle Barker. 6. Review And Discussion Of Lessons 1-5. 7, 8, and 9. Sacagawea. Mission Lessons in Child Guidance: 1. Social Behavior. 2. Work and Play. 3. Children's Lies. 4. Sex Education. 5. Adolescence. 6. Personality Adjustments. 7. Success And Failure. 8. Mental Hygiene Of Childhood. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN KATE M. BARKER JULIA A. F, LUND THE GENERAL BOARD President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Elise B. Alder Inez K. Allen Jennie B, Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Editor Manager Assistant Manager RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vol. XXIV JUNE, 1937 No. 6 Editorial Wonderful Loyalty THIS month brings the end of our regular weekly meetings in many stakes. We feel proud and grateful for the wonderful loyalty of the membership of Relief Society in all the wards and missions of the Church. Some who live within a very short distance of the meeting house hardly realize the struggle that some women have had to attend their meetings. Recently a Sister came in the office from the Portola Branch, Nevada District, of the California Mission. This branch has only 16 members enrolled. They live in widely-scattered districts. Sister Inez Roberts, one of the members, makes a total of 53 miles to attend the meetings. On her way she does a good deed by calling for one of the class leaders who lives 20 miles away from the meeting house. Some of our Visiting Teachers have walked many, many miles in going around their districts, One woman who lived in Canada told me that she had to go around her district on horseback, and several times she would have to get off the horse, unfasten a big gate, lead the horse through, fasten the gate, and mount and go on her way. We find that it doesn't matter how difficult it is to get to the meeting places nor how far our Visiting Teachers have to go in making their rounds, the members get to the association, the districts are visited. Surely the blessings of our Heavenly Father must attend these women who show their loyalty to His work and their appreciation for the organization effected by the Prophet Joseph Smith which has done and is doing such a marvelous work for women. EDITORIAL 397 Amazing AS we visit the literary classes from time to time we find the teachers wishing there were more time to tell the lovely things that are in the section of the book under discussion, so imagine our surprise the other day to hear a woman who had recently returned from a near-by State, say that she visited a literary lesson and the teacher said, "I will have to repeat, because last month the teacher gave everything in the book. Next time we'll have a party so as not to repeat again." We wonder how it is possible for anybody to read the life of Abraham Lincoln by Carl Sandburg and not feel that there was enough in it not only for three but for many, many lessons. Teachers show their background and standing by their appreciation of that which is fine. We hope all our teachers in the future will so appreciate the fine things in the books studied that there will not be one who will feel that it is necessary to cover three lessons in one because there isn't enough material. Changes in Officials in Salt Lake Temple ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS and his wife have for years presided over the work in the Salt Lake Temple, showing marked efficiency and characteristics that have endeared them to all who have entered its sacred precincts. Now they have been asked to superintend the work of all the Temples, and their experience will fit them to eminently perform this task. President Richards will also serve as acting Patriarch. Elder Stephen L. Chipman will now take Brother Richard's place, and he will be assisted by George F. Richards, Jr., and Nicholas G. Smith. All three have characteristics that fit them for this exalted position. Kindly, gentle, understanding, devoted to the work, they too, will be loved and will carry on the work most successfully. Superintendency of Y. M. M. I. A. THE Church through its great educational system has the biggest percentage of men and women ready to fill posts of responsibility and distinction of any body in the world. And so when a vacancy occurs, there are many possible choices to fill it well. When Albert E. Bowen was chosen as an Apostle, it became necessary to reorganize the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. Three outstanding men now head it —George Q. Morris, Joseph J. Cannon, and Burton K. Farnsworth. All three are graduates of the University of Utah and for many years have held leading positions in the Church. They all know the Mutual Improvement work through years of service in its interest. They are full of faith in the Gospel, progressive in their thought, and deeply interested in the youth of Zion. We are sure their superintendency will be marked by efficiency and progress in the great work they are heading. 398 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE To Our Contributors IT is well known that stamped addressed envelopes should accompany all manuscripts submitted to a Magazine. In the past we have returned the manuscripts of many who have omitted this obligation, but hereafter we shall not return manuscripts unless the writer sends postage, neither can we keep them for future call. Lessons for 1937-38 WE call our readers' attention to the fact that we shall begin publishing the lessons for 1937-38 in the July issue of the Magazine. We hope all whose subscriptions expire with the June issue will renew now so that they will have the material for next fall. Not only should they subscribe but they should put their Magazines away carefully so they will know where they are when needed for next season's work. Magazine Agents would do well to interview those whose subscriptions expire during the summer months and get renewals. Erratum WE regret that an error was made in our March issue in the date of the first organization of the Palestine-Syrian Mission Relief Society. The first Relief Society was organized in 1906 at Aleppo and another organization was effected at Aintab in the same year, while Sister Mary R. Moyle Booth, wife of President Joseph Booth, was laboring in that mission. This was then known as the Turkish Mission. To Stake Presidents ABOUT the time that this Magazine reaches you, you should receive a package containing enough "Instructions to Magazine Agents," receipt books and order blanks for each Ward in your Stake. Will you kindly send these to the Ward Magazine Agents at once, urging them to secure as many subscriptions as possible now? Call their attention to the fact that the lessons for next season will begin in the July issue, and that all those whose subscriptions expire before that date should renew at once in order that they may have their lessons ready for next fall. To Our Magazine Agents You will soon receive from your Stake President a pamphlet, "Instructions To Magazine Agents," your order blanks and receipt books. Since the lessons for next season will begin in the July issue, we urge that the Magazine Agents get as many subscriptions as possible now, so that none of our members will be without the first lessons next fall. For a long time we have urged that the securing of Magazine subscriptions be an all-year campaign, rather than leaving all the work until the month specified for our Drive. If this advice is followed, the period from September 15 to October 15 will then be a time of gleaning, of making and sending reports; the work will not be strenuous, and much greater success can be attained in this way. Let us make 1937 far exceed 1936, wonderful as that record was. A Generous Gift BROTHER JACOB MAGLEBY of Thornton, Idaho, has done a gracious thing that we believe has never been equalled before in our history in sending 18 yearly subscriptions to women residing in his Ward. He asked Mrs. Martha Briggs, secretary of Archer Ward Relief Society, to give him the names of all the mothers in the Ward over 50 years of age, also all the widows who did not have the Magazine in their home, whether they were members of the Church or not. The list was sent to him. He returned it with a check, asking that a year's subscription to the Magazine be sent to each one. We thank Brother Magleby for his generosity and for the kindly thought that prompted it. FATHER By Linnie Fisher Robinson 'Tis fathers' day and so I thought To send you this bouquet; Inadequate to speak my love Or half my heart would say. My gratitude is for the faith You manifested clear; And kept at any sacrifice, Tis that I hold most dear. Obedience I early loved Because you walked aright; My reverence was half for you When taught the gospel's light. For thrift, I thank your honest heart Your fine scholarly mind; This is a mighty tool to have As I have come to find. I thank you for your charity, For all the help you gave— By hearing every call that came And going forth to save. Now, though the years have taken toll, Nobility still flings Its gracious halo 'round your head,. And ranks you with the kings. HOME By Lydia Hall Adventurers, who sail through skies of blue On eagle wings beyond the horizon, Your clear eyes seeking unknown lands where you May view strange wonders 'neath a foreign sun; O, brothers of the restless heart who hear And list to the call of the seven seas It must be fine to rove year after year Discovering all of earth's mysteries, But O, the strongest call to me today, The one that fills my fondest dreams is home, Beneath the old roof. Tree I want to stay, I love the fireside too much to roam, I am content to be where joy is still, A small, brown wren beside the window sill. COMPENSATION By Ella J, Coulam If the sun were always shining And the skies forever blue, We would never see the starlight Or flowers filled with dew. If our paths were strewn with roses With no thorns to hurt our feet, We would never know the value Of true friends that we meet. If the winter snows kept falling With no summer for relief, We would never know the peace That follows after grief. — er I WISH - By Julina B. Green I wish my past misdeeds could be Completely cast aside like garments old, Nor leave a stain, nor spot on me, Nor on my future life still keep a hold. I wish my selfish heart could yield To others all that's rightly theirs, And not uphold its own ungodly ways, But lose them in unselfish prayers. I wish my loved ones and my friends Could cover all my wrongs with charity And only see in me my better self And understand me as I try to be. I wish that I could live a life so sweet, So truly lovely and so undefiled That every act or thought might safely be Exposed unguarded to a little child. I hope in that fair future life My puny virtues might expand To such dimensions that by each loved one I can be Truly understood; and understand. This Year's High School Graduates— Where Will They Find Work? Give them the advantage of sharp tools and trained hands. The coupon below will bring full information about the opportunities here for intensive training. Summer classes begin June 1 and 7 L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City Please send me information about the L. D. S. Business College. Name Address To Every Bride— All the details of apparel, stationery, etc., in her great adventure are of the utmost importance. Correctness and smartness are our watchwords in Wedding Stationery. See our smart new line. Prices $7.00 And up for 100 Wedding Invitations or Announcements. The Deseret News Press 29 Richards St. Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine COMMENCEMENT—A Milestone COMMENCEMENT is a milestone in the life of the graduate. It means that the first lap has been run. It will soon be time. With the graduate's entry into business, profession, or other occupation, to take the race of life seriously. To every graduate we wish success. Another milestone in the life of every young man or woman is the time when he or she first takes out a life insurance policy. This first policy is an auspicious start along the road to economic security—and it removes much of the worry along the way. Insure with the Beneficial—this strong company will go all the way with you. Call on your local Beneficial agent: or, if you do not know him. Drop a postcard to the home office. HOME OFFICE——BENEFICIAL LIFE BLDG., SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE XXIV JULY, 1937 Today There's Another Meeting "What will the family have to eat,' you ask. SMALL ELECTRIC TABLE APPLIANCES Prepare food quickly, cheaply Buy today a handy roaster, grill and toaster. You'll find food tasty these warm summer days, and so easy to prepare UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. SAFETY of your investment in this Association SEMI-ANNUAL DIVIDEND FOR JUNE 30, 1937, JUST PAID PLENTY OF MONEY TO LOAN AT ATTRACTIVE RATES AND LONG TERMS Deseret Federal Savings & Loan Ass'n 44 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Free Booklet on Request Explaining Insured Shares When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine NEPHI L. MORRIS, President J. E. KJAR, Secretary Send The Children. When you are busy, when unexpected guests arrive or whenever more convenient—just send the children to our stores. They will receive special attention from an O. P. Skaggs System operator. There will always be a cash register ticket in the bag for your convenience in checking. O. P. SKAGGS SYSTEM "A Surety of Purity" CRYSTAL PALACE Markets 1222 1st South at 3rd East—17th South at 5th East South Temple at 2nd East Home of... "Famous Laddie Boy Bread and Danish Pastry" "We Feature" Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XXIV JULY, 1937 No. 7 CONTENTS Pioneer.............................................Conrey Bryson 401 Frontispiece—Inez Knight Allen............................ 402 Inez Knight Allen.......................Alice Louise Reynolds 403 A Tribute To Inez Knight Allen.................. Sibrina Cropper Reynolds 405 The Grandmother.........................Marguerite Johnson Griffin 406 Home........................................Susan T. Jennings 411 What Should Mothers Do?...........................Jean Cox 412 Growing Old Gracefully.........................Beatrice E. Linford 417 Growing Old.................................Filindia S. Huff 419 The Lotus Eater............................Mabel S. Harmer 420 A Day For the Old Folks........................Marie J. Maher 424 Happenings.................................Annie Wells Cannon 427 Recollections of the Lion House..................Edith Young Booth 428 Little Moments of Eternity...................Lella Marler Hoggan 430 Word Study................................Alice Lee Eddy 432 The Great White Throne..........................H. R. Merrill 433 Young Mother's Department......................Tone Mohler 435 We the Audience......................................................... 436 Through the Years...........................Elfa J. Coulam 439 To the Pioneers of 1887.......................C. Frank Steele 440 Address...................................Elbert D. Thomas 441 Music Department..........................Prof. Frank W. Asper 443 The Great Divide..........................Bertha A. Kleinman 444 Appraisal...............................Alberta H. Christensen 445 Notes to the Field................................................... 446 Notes From the Field........................Julia A. F. Lund 448 My Problem.............................Terrance Sylvester Glennamaddy 451 Editorials— Home................................. 452 Magazine To Be Larger........................ 453 Lesson Department............................ 454 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 980 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address, Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. "Everything to Furnish the Home" GRANITE FURNITURE CO. We own our own building and warehouse out of the high rent district. Buy in carload lots take advantage of all cash discounts and pass the savings onto you. Quality and service come first. Murray SUGAR HOUSE Park City PEERLESS LAUNDRY For Health and Convenience Snow White Clothes Development in Spiritual Leadership High in the mountains Brigham Young University holds the second or Alpine Term of the Summer Session. In the rare, clean atmosphere of the peaks. Among inspiring scenes, the delight of making spiritual and mental progress is increased. With 35 courses offered in 15 departments, class leaders and other educators ALPINE SUMMER TERM July 26—August 27 Courses in Art, Botany, Economics, Education, English, Finance and Banking, Geology, Geography, History, Journalism, Modern Language (French), Music (Vocal), Physics, Speech, Zoology and Entomology. (The 26th Annual Timpanogos Hike Will be held July 16 and 17, a week earlier than usual. Thousands take this opportunity to spend hours of exhilaration above the clouds on 12,000-foot Mount Timpanogos.) For a Schedule Address Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH "Scholarship—Spirituality—Character" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 1184 East 21st South will have many opportunities to strengthen themselves for leadership To Your Family's HEALTH! Radiant health demands. Among other things. Sufficient energy food. Make FISHER'S Vitamin D Bread YOUR CHIEF ENERGY FOOD A Product of the AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY The Big Home-Owned Bakery Hyland 2182 Deafened? A person who permits a hard-of-hearing condition to progress to the point of actual deafness BEFORE correcting the condition takes the risk of serious consequences, particularly in social relationships. For 34 years the genuine Acousticon has been giving the thrill of immediate hearing to thousands who have suffered hearing losses. Any hard-of-hearing person can consult the Institute without obligation. Call or write. At once! ACOUSTICON INSTITUTE OF SALT LAKE 202 Brooks Arcade at 268 So. State St. GET THE GENUINE ACOUSTICON... And HEAR Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah ANNOUNCEMENT! The Relief Society study books for next season have been selected. We give you their titles and their special prices to members. ROMANCE OF AN OLD PLAYHOUSE, by George D. Pyper (regular price $2.50)..................................$2.00 LOG CABIN LADY (Anonymous) in a special Relief Society edition $1.25 STAR OF THE WEST. By Ethel Houston, in a special edition at....$1.00 If you order all three together and send cash with your order, you may get the three books, postpaid for only $4. (Plus State Sales Tax) Send in your order now to the DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine PIONEER By Conrey Bryson He pauses a moment, alone, at the top of the hill, And looks at the desert, now heaving its thorn-cluttered breast; The land that his bruised, aching fingers must conquer and till, The land of his promise, the spot where his children may rest. He raises his face to the parching and pitiless sky, Then hopefully kneels for a while on the blistering sod. Arising, the dreams of his youth are aflame in his eye. This powerful man of the plains has communed with his God. A vision is spreading before him. The pastures are green, And cities are buzzing in riotous tumult and flare, Men fighting for gold in the maze of the whirling machine. The pioneer listens, and knows that his children are there. His heart stops a moment, alone at the top of the hill. He walks to the desert. His head now is weary with care. Does he hear the voice of the desolate farm and the mill? The "Give us a job" that is rending the hot dusty air? INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXIV JULY, 1937 No. 7 Inez Knight Allen By Alice Louise Reynolds INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN, distinguished daughter of distinguished parents, has gone to her reward—the reward of the just in Christ Jesus our Lord. Her deft hand and full heart touched many phases of community life, and all for good. She wove into the pattern of her life beauty and ideality, and as the pattern unfolded it revealed a woman of skill in many things—a woman of tact in all things —a woman who was a pioneer in three lines of service. INEZ was born in Payson, September 8, 1876. Her parents were Jesse and Amanda McEwan Knight. She loved and honored them throughout her life. Her deep affection for them was reciprocated by their deep affection for her. It is to be hoped that she has talked over her father's life and character with some one who will in the future be his biographer, else there will be great loss; for no one understood "Uncle Jesse" better than did his daughter Inez. Mrs. Allen received her early schooling in Payson, but so deeply imbued was her father with the spirit of Dr. Karl G. Maeser that he moved to Provo in 1898 that his children might have the advantage of attending Brigham Young Academy. THEN came her mission, which will always be historic; for she and Mrs. Jennie Brimhall Knight were the first women to be called on missions in the same manner as most women are called on missions today, and not in connection with their husbands. ON HER return she acted in the capacity of dean of women at Brigham Young Academy, although it was not known by that name at that time. At the same time she served as secretary to her father whose volume of business was daily increasing. SHE has been an interested and ardent Church worker throughout her life. She began in the Sunday School as a teacher, but was soon taken on to the stake board of the Relief Society where she served as secretary and afterward as counselor to Martha A. F. Keeler, wife of Joseph B. Keeler. In 1918, on Sister Keeler's retirement, she became Stake President which office she held until 1924. She was the first President to employ a trained social worker, and was the leading spirit in the organization of the Community Welfare office still functioning in Utah County. Her administration was of a very high order and unusually efficient. It was characterized by a number of innovations, by intelligence and vision. DURING the war she served as chairman of the Utah County Council of Defense and Liberty Loan Committee. She was Vice-Chairman of the Utah County Red Cross, and in recent years has served on the Utah County Relief Committee. SHE WAS active in politics. She was the only woman in Utah County ever placed on a ticket for the state senate. She believed that woman should take a part in bettering government whether national or local. Some of us recall the picture of William Jennings Bryan, standing on her mother's porch, urging those who came within the range of his voice to support her for the Senate. They also remember that when he was through, President Heber J. Grant told the throng gathered that were he a resident of Utah County, irrespective of party affiliation, he would support Mrs. Allen. She never went to the legislature, but she did make it possible for others to go and rejoiced at their success; for she lived to see women from both major political parties serve the legislature from Utah County. She served her party nationally as a presidential elector. She was a delegate to the National Convention held in New York in 1924, and served the state as National Committee woman four years. It was in this capacity that she attended the National Convention at Houston, Texas, in 1928, and at this time her public work became sufficiently significant to give her a place in "Who's Who." On June 11, 1902, she was married to Robert Eugene Allen. Mrs. Allen was as outstanding in her domestic life as she was in her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE public work. She with her husband builded a home from whence five stalwart sons have gone forth, equipped to serve the modern world. Four of those five young men have done service in the mission field. She used to say that her daughters were her sons' wives. Like her sons they are a group of useful and cultivated young women, who will miss her greatly as will her two grandchildren. On Friday, preceding her demise, which occurred on Saturday, June 5, she was at a luncheon, where about twenty-two of her friends were gathered. She talked of her grandchildren, of their proud fathers and fond mothers, and the last word from her lips that fell upon my ears concerned her son Robert and wife who are in Paris, France. The Allen home was a home of interest and happiness. Often it has been my privilege to dine with the family. Such times were always occasions for me, as I listened to Brother and Sister Allen and their sons and daughters converse together. Sometimes it was serious conversation, at other times it was full of humor, talk that caused a lot of merriment and fun; it was table talk of a very high order. I HAVE stated earlier in this article that she pioneered in three fields. These fields were missionary work, social work, and the cause of women in social and political life. THE crowning work for her Church has been in the Relief Society. So diligently did she seek for knowledge in this field that she became a social worker of repute, sought for on county boards and on state committees. By every instinct of her being she was eminently fitted for this work. Born of parents of large sympathy, the driving power of her soul was sympathy. She had INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN 'such great understanding' say many who knew her. 'She could go to the most rural community and put at ease the timid,' say others, 'bringing peace where there had been distress.' Always she saw what was lovely in a situation, and drew one's attention from the unlovely to the lovely. She was a sort of alchemist turning base metal into gold in a spiritual sense. Her success as Stake President of the Relief Society was in all probability due much more to the sympathy she aroused for those less fortunate in life than from any technique she made use of, although she sought and used the most progressive methods in her work. IT WAS the intellectual acumen blended with fine feeling and deep concern for others that was basic in her success both as an administrator and as a public speaker. She was effective as a speaker, but when she spoke she always warmed hearts and almost as often drew tears from the eyes of her listeners. MRS. ALLEN was connected with various circles of women: The Brigham Young University 405 Women, the Nelke Reading Club, The Yeasharah Club, which is an organization of lady missionaries, and the Alice Louise Reynolds Club, which she was prominent in bringing into being in 1932. She was four years the Chairman of the Central Committee; she was also a member of Chapter Two, of the Club known as the Alice Louise Reynolds Friendly Circle, all of Provo, and for some time she has been a member of the Friendship Circle of Salt Lake City. INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN, highly respected, deeply beloved, leaves behind a place that others cannot fill. As she moved about in the various circles with which she has been connected, her face glowed with the love her soul radiated, and the memory of her soul's glow will be a part of the wealth of all who ever knew her as long as there are those remaining who felt her handclasp and who knew her smile. Some there are who create art, others there are who make of their lives a work of art—she belonged to the latter group. A TRIBUTE TO INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN By Sebrina Cropper Reynolds Dear heart, the tie that binds us ne'er can sever Though thou the pure, the good art called away Thy memory lingers—we'll forget thee never The Father called—we would not bid thee stay. Go claim the crown of honor and approval That He a loving Father will bestow. Our hearts bow down with grief at thy removal It is so hard dear one to see thee go. But we will hold forever in remembrance Thy kindly word, thy genial pleasant smile Our lives are enriched, inspired because we knew thee Thy soul was pure—thy life unknown to guile; Though rich endowed the humble knew thy favor Thou wert so keen to take the sufferer's part It was of such as thee, that spoke our Savior When Christ said: "Blessed are the Pure in Heart." The Grandmother By Marguerite Johnson Griffin SUSAN ABBEY, old, stooped, and gray, walked slowly and with faltering steps toward her daughter's home. She was just returning from Relief Society and the meeting had cheered her and invigorated her while she had been there, although she was in a city far from her old home and lifetime friends. But now as she approached the rambling white house which sheltered her daughter and her daughter's brood of children, the old despair and emptiness returned to lay its hand upon her heart which had known its varied pains and joys, but never this futility which she was feeling now. It was but a few short months since Ira, her beloved husband, had departed from this world, leaving her, an empty-hearted old woman, to go on breathing, eating, and fitfully sleeping, but never again really living, until her days, too, should be finished. She entered the gate, and weary from her walk, but more weary from the meanderings of her mind, she seated herself on a rustic bench built artistically between two shade trees. There was no need to hurry in. Inside there was nothing for her to do. It was always, 'No, Grandmother, you sit down and rest. We'll soon be through." They meant to be kind. And perhaps it was for the best that she be kept from heavy house-work. For her legs were stiff from rheumatic pains, and her hands were quite unsteady. Before Ira's death, they had lived alone together, the two old people. She had cooked and washed and mended for the two of them quite the same as she had always done, and people had been wont to remark how spry she was. But since Ira had left her, something had happened to her. She felt broken in body and spirit. She wished she might have gone, too. Why must she go on living? She was not needed here. Her children were all self-sufficient, grown, married, some of them with married children of their own. But still she must live on, a burden to herself at least, if not to the children who, she knew, loved her devotedly, and wished to care for her in their homes and make her life as happy as possible. But a mother's joy is not in being served, but in doing for her children, and when she feels she can no longer do for them, then for her at least life has lost its meaning. So it was with Susan Abbey. Since there seemed to be no future for her to think about, she must needs recreate the past. She had been a pretty girl when she was young, slender and graceful. She looked down at her hands, wrinkled and gnarled. It was hard to believe they could ever have been young. What a priceless thing youth is! Much too precious to be bestowed upon the young who take it so for granted, who never stop to think that it will pass one day. She sighed with the weariness of age. At least it was nice to remember she had been pretty. And Ira! So tall, so straight, so upright. They had been ideally happy together to the very end. She thought of her children one by one, the six in their order and the wee one they had laid away in a tiny grave before its life had scarce begun. What glory, that memory of chubby arms about her neck, of baby laughter, of rollicking, pattering THE GRANDMOTHER youthful feet. And then the emptiness as each one had married and they had been left alone, a middle-aged couple growing daily older. But at least they had had each other, and all these things, the sadness and the joy, had welded their hearts into one. And now he was gone. No wonder she felt only half alive. No wonder life seemed empty, aching. For the sake of her children who were good and kind, she had tried to be brave and smile. All her life she had felt that each human being had enough troubles of his own without being made miserable by another's whining. All her life she had hidden the aches her heart had been called upon to suffer. But now it was almost too hard. For a brief moment she gave herself to the cruelest of all things, self-pity. How she longed for a return of the days when her little brood had been around her. When there had been sticky hands to wash, grimy necks and ears to scrub, hungry little mouths to fill, sleepy eyes to lull to rest. But now her children were doing these things for their children and she was no longer needed. She was in the way, and useless. BRISK steps upon the walk caused her to look up and strain her near-sighted eyes for recognition. It was Emily, her granddaughter, who had been married less than a year. She did not live very far from her mother so it was no matter for wonder to see her come lightly through the gate, for her visits were very frequent. Nonetheless, the old lady was surprised that the young girl walked straight to her before going into the house. Not so much by that fact perhaps, for all the grandchildren were affectionate toward her, but because of the girl's flushed cheeks and the worried lines upon her usually smooth brow. 407 "Oh, Grandmother," she said upon a deep-throated sigh, which bespoke more anxiety than words. And after kissing the older woman, she threw herself upon the grass at her feet. "How are you, Emily?" the old lady asked softly, her mind no longer upon her own troubles, but searching vainly to find what might be challenging the composure of this beautiful young girl, whose heart had always been so light, whose eyes so joyous, "Oh, I'm all right," she said tersely, and then abruptly gave way to emotions she had tried to conceal. "No. I'm not. I'm miserable, and I've got to tell someone. Grandmother, I'm going to have a baby." Some happiness leaped up in the old lady's heart. "A baby," she repeated reverently. It would be her first great-grandchild. A baby's coming meant anticipation, new hope, new life. As long as there were children the world could never grow old. "That is wonderful, Emily," she went on with gently subdued elation. "I'm so glad for you." "Why, Grandmother? Why are you glad?" The old woman's bright eyes scanned the young face before her. With keen intuition she said, "In other words, my dear child, you wonder what there is in it to be glad about. In other words you were wishing—" "Yes, Grandmother, I was wishing it didn't have to be. All my fun, my good times, will be over. There will be work, and restless nights, sickness, worry. Oh, you see, I know what it means. I am mother's oldest. I've had my share of baby tending." "Yes, of baby tending, perhaps," came the slow gentle voice, "But not of baby loving." The girl started to protest, but the woman hastened on. "Oh, I know: you loved them, but 408 they were your brothers and sisters. You were a child. Now, you are a woman. You will love the wee one with a mother's love which is quite a different thing and quite a wonderful thing, too." "You're sweet, Grandmother," breathed the girl. "You had your share of babies, didn't you? You'd think you would be tired of them." "No, child. There is eternal joy in babies. The world would be a dreary place without them to refresh its laughter and dim its pain. So, Emily, be happy about the wonderful thing that is coming to you. You are standing upon the threshold of the greatest experience of your life. True, some people give childhood the credit for being the happiest time. To be sure, it is the most care-free time. But nothing can equal the days when your babies are small, even though they bring years fraught with work and responsibility." "You make it sound nice anyway, Grandmother," the girl replied somewhat doubtfully. "Well, you know, dear, the Saviour said, 'Suffer little children to come unto Me'. In spite of the short time He was given on earth in which to fulfill His mission, He was never so busy that he was annoyed by children's eager prattle. Instead He took them in His arms and blessed them, for, said He, 'of such is the kingdom of Heaven.' He came to do a vicarious work for us, And so likewise does every mother of man. She does something for another human soul which he could not do for himself. With the goodness of God, she creates for him a human body, and suffers pain that he might enter this life. It is a holy thing, Emily. An achievement to be proud of." "You're an angel, Grandmother. You make me feel ashamed of myself," she said whole-heartedly. I'll always think of your words whenever I feel wearied by the task. After all, Mother did it for me and for my brothers and sisters. I must be worthy of her. I must be as brave as she." "And after your baby is here, you will feel that your reward outshines everything, everything," the old lady promised musingly. From the doorway of the house, Susan's daughter and Emily's mother called. "What are you two doing out there? You better come on in." "You go in, Emily," suggested the Grandmother. 'I want to sit here a little longer, and think a moment," she added almost under her breath. As the girl skipped lightly away, the woman mused upon the glory of children. What would she do now without her boys and girls, their boys and girls? Then indeed her life might be empty. They were good to her. They loved her. Could they be blamed that their busy lives and flying feet of youth sometimes made them seem unmindful of the ache she bore in her heart? After all, why should they carry her burden? She was a mother and a mother must bear her own problems as well as those of her children. It was human nature. Her back straightened visibly. Yes. She would somehow find the strength to hide her sorrow and not dim the happiness of these younger lives. And then, there was Ira, somewhere, waiting, whom she must make proud of her. LATER in the evening the young grand-children were in bed and the older ones had gone off to Mutual, when her son-in-law had gone back to the office for a little extra work, Susan sat knitting quietly by the side of her daughter, Martha. The room was calm and still, and Susan felt almost that if she raised her eyes she might see Ira, instead of Martha. Sitting by her, poring over the pages of a book. Ira had been THE GRANDMOTHER such a student, and many an evening they had spent enjoying quiet just such as this, with her knitting, mending, or sewing, while he read, sometimes aloud, but more frequently to himself. He could cover more ground when he read silently, he said, and his mind could never rest inactively. Good, dear Ira. She wondered if over there they missed the absent ones as much as they were missed here. Perhaps they were too busy, and perhaps they perceived the Gospel Plan so much more plainly that the time did not seem so long. Activity is the best healer of loneliness. But what could you do when your body was old and gnarled, and handicapped you in things demanding much expenditure of energy? What could you do when you could only sit and knit and think? "Mother—" Her daughter's voice stopped the channel of her thoughts as always that call from her children had done from the earliest time that they could lisp the word. Her mind was washed clear of all memories and ponderings and waited in attention for her daughter's words. "Yes, dear," she said. "Mother," the voice was hesitant and perplexed. "I am in an agony of fear. Emily is to have a baby." "Yes, I know. She told me. But what have you to fear? She is a good girl. She will make a fine mother." "Indeed she will. The best," she answered heartily. "But she is so young. It is such a hard ordeal." "Not as young as you were with your first one. Nor I," she rejoined, apparently without sympathy. "That is true," murmured Martha as if the thought brought no consolation. The Grandmother's voice softened gently. "I know, dear. I know what you are feeling now. I felt it for you, 409 for each one of my girls. You would like to spare her the suffering. But it is a good thing you can't. You would likewise spare her the joys of motherhood." "Mother, you are right. You are always right. You make me see so clearly. But it is so hard to sit back and watch, and be able to do nothing but wait, all the while knowing what suffering it means." "But Emily is young and strong. Doctors can offer more help now than they could in your day, or in my day. It may not be as hard as you think. Usually one suffers more fearing a thing than facing it. More things have been worried about than have actually taken place." "How true! But it takes so much courage," the younger woman pleaded. "I think," said the Grandmother with misty eyes, "that one of the first lessons a mother must learn is patience. And if she holds fast to it and forgets it not, it will lead her straight to the possession of that courage she needs." "You are wonderful, Mother," breathed the other woman. "How do you remember such wonderful philosophies for every occasion?" "I'm afraid, daughter, that I often forget them when I need them most. Patience—It is one of the things I'm afraid I was quite forgetting to hang on to." "Patience," murmured the other woman as if to fasten it well upon her heart-strings. "Patience." "Perhaps you would like to know, Martha, what Emily said to me this afternoon. She said she must be as brave as you have always been." The younger woman's eyes flashed quickly upon the wrinkled face before her, and there was self-reproach burning in them. "I have much to live up to then, haven't I?" she murmured. 410 "No more than any other mother," replied the old lady gently. "Our daughters can have no more patience or courage than we ourselves have to impart to them." "How brave I ought to be, then," breathed Martha, rising abruptly to kiss her mother warmly and affectionately. Then she quickly left the room to conceal the hot tears which were searing her eye-balls. "What a lot I have been forgetting since Ira died," mused the old lady. "Things he would not have me forget." SHE had hardly time to collect her thoughts when John, Martha's oldest boy, dashed impetuously into the house. It was hard to believe that Mutual was already over. The evening had passed so quickly. But here was John, and there was hot anger written all over his face. "Have a nice Mutual, John?" she asked simply. "Naw," he blustered. "Everything went haywire. It's the basket-ball team. I'm captain, you know. And Dan Marks has had some kind of a feud on with Bill Drake. I don't know what it's all about. But he is jealous because Bill Drake got public credit for a play that Dan takes credit for. Of course, Bill could not have made it if it hadn't been for Dan's fine playing, too. But at any rate Dan's sore, and is quitting the team. That's some sportsmanship, if you ask me. Letting personal feelings enter into a game. Dan's our best player, too. You would think he could be a little more generous to Bill whose playing has never even been noticed before. Well, he can just get out, if he's asking to." John's chin was setting into a hard firm line. "Even if he is our best, we'll get along without him. We'll show him." The youthful face was hot and flushed with passion. "Of course you can get along without him, John," said the little old lady with calm assurance. "Your team will carry its good work along. That is one thing that is always true. No individual can drop out and ruin the existence of a good organization. Take the Church, for instance. It will go on, regardless of whether you and I do our part in it or not." "I'll say,' remarked the youth, feeling elated that Grandmother agreed with him. "But even so, son, we must remember that if we don't do our part in the Church, although the Church will still go on, it will not be quite as complete as if we were still within the fold. Now, take your basket-ball team. It will carry on, but will the playing be quite equal to what it was when Dan was on the team?" "I'm afraid not. That's what worries me. But we can't. Let him think he is so important—" "You see, John, the Church needs you and me. Your basket-ball team needs Dan. It's like this. If one of our family, any one, should be taken by death, the rest of us would still go on living, but not quite as before. There would be an emptiness." Her voice trembled faintly at the word. "Our happiness would not be quite as perfect. So it is with the Church and your basket-ball team, when one is missing who should be there." "Why, Grandmother, I had never thought of it like that before," said the boy with a new light in his eyes. "But how can I make Dan stay?" "I think it will be very simple. Instead of being afraid of letting him know how important he is to the team—After all that is but a sign of jealousy upon your part—tell him what his work means to the success of your team. Tell him you can't do without him. That will soften his heart, I'll bet you a dollar, and will make him feel good. Everyone likes to feel appreciated. And perhaps if THE GRANDMOTHER you are very tactful, you can even straighten out the feud, as you call it, between him and Bill, and you will all be better friends. The best of friendships grow out of conditions which are hard to weather, and every leader must have humility to take the lead in settling disputes, must have the generosity to praise ability and effort put forth by one of his subordinates, and he must know that there is no member, even ever so humble, that he can do without." "Gee, Grandmother! You're a whizz! "And he, too, kissed her goodnight with boyish bruskness. SUSAN thought that no compliment had ever been paid her equal to being called a whizz by a boy so young, so full of energy, so full of flashing anger which could mellow as suddenly to impetuous generosity. And as she climbed the stairs to bed that night she was amazed to recall how full her day had been, she who, but a few hours ago, had thought her life hopelessly empty. 411 She saw now that a mother's duties must never end, no matter how old and bent she may get. As long as she lives and breathes there are children to be watched over, grandchildren, and soon a great-grandchild. No. There was no longer dirty faces to wash, but there were gloomy spirits to brighten and angry passions to subdue. There were no longer hungry mouths to feed, but groping souls to nourish with the counsel and wisdom of age. And no matter how old they might be, there would be tears she could dry, not with a hanky as in days past, but with words of consolement and prayers of faith. How busy must a mother be all her days! "It is not only that I need them now as never before, but they still need me," the Grandmother breathed triumphantly. "And sleep, the sleep of peace and a new purpose in life, brought rest to eyes which so shortly before had wept in mourning, but now would be dried henceforth by the calm patience of courage. HOME By Susan T. Jennings Home need not wear a polished mien, Nor bear a studied grace To mark its hospitality And make it choice of place. But all its charms and attitudes, Its welcomings should be As kingly cloak to garb therein A fine sincerity. I care not for its class or cast, Nor for its warp and woof; For home is where the heart throbs true Beneath whatever roof. What Should Mothers Do? By Jean Cox THIS is written from the outside looking in. In a recent article in Scribner's entitled "The Modern Woman Goes Home," by Mrs. Ralph Borsodi, a clever analysis is given of the importance that production still plays in the homes of today. In this she questions the net earning capacity of married women outside the home as compared with the women whose major job is homemaking. She has convinced herself that there is both happiness and economic satisfaction in the home production of food, clothing, and laundry. It is the conclusion of Mr. And Mrs. Borsodi that the average woman who cooks, cans, preserves, bakes, and launders at home for her family produces more wealth than she could produce by earning money. Her own hourly earnings on home work have been so large that she believes that the same sort of cost analysis for nursing, music teaching, and entertainment would prove that the value of her economic contribution within the home would be substantially equal to the value of the man's economic contribution in industry. Far too much recognition has been given to the job of money making. This, unfortunately, in Mrs. Borsodi's opinion, has overshadowed many of the human values to which homes contribute and unfortunately this great movement of women into industry competing in many cases with men during the working day has not been an unmixed blessing. Some thinkers contend it was a costly mistake and as a result home life has been cheapened. Birth of children has been deferred for years, if not indefinitely. Respect for woman's work in the home has been minimized. Some of the very foundations of living have been belittled. In many cases, home standards of living have been cheapened and, unfortunately, made ugly. Mrs. Borsodi claims that the largest part of the food, clothing, utilities and services needed to live in accordance with the high standards prevailing today can be produced in the home, quality for quality, at a lower cost than they can be procured from the factory system. Her records, covering several years, show that an intelligent woman can easily earn 20 cents to 50 cents per hour year in and year out with no losses for unemployment. The amount earned depends somewhat on the size of the family, standard of living and the amount of work accomplished. In some kinds of production where equipment is satisfactory the earnings per hour range higher than the above figure. From careful study of canned versus homemade foods Mrs. Borsodi showed that the total earnings in one month in home prepared food over canned was $10.36. Of course, there are some splendid reasons for using canned fruits, vegetables, and meats. By using some prepared foods and preparing others and then comparing the finished meal with down-town meals the average woman, who organizes well and works efficiently, will find that her earning power may range from $1.00 to $1.50 an hour in meal preparation. In one or two cases her figuring is a bit spectacular; however, the WHAT SHOULD article on the whole is challenging and well worth reading. It is the opinion of the author that where women work long hours in shops or industries, personal and home costs are apt to mount. Lunches and very often dinners are eaten down town. Frequently the family decide that as they are near a theatre a show is advisable. When this becomes a tri-weekly habit the profit from work outside the home dwindles to an uncomfortable percentage. Because home time is limited when the woman works it is frequently decided that entertainment of guests should also be done down town. It takes time and energy to keep up the establishment in first-class shape even with help. It is so easy to forget to put oil in some of the various and sundry lamps which contribute to a smoothly running comfortable home. There is danger of last minute annoyances from finding empty cans of staple supplies, linens that have been folded too long, dishes grimed with smoke or dust, or silver tarnished from lack of use. Hospitality means pleasure in sharing and company planning is not happily done if one is anxiously waiting for the moment to leave for work or for home. HOWEVER, far more important for consideration than monetary costs and values is the family building or the human element in homemaking. Traditions which have come down from one generation to the next must be of some value. If the man is to be really the head of the house it is necessary for his ego that he be respected as such. Among the most treasured ideals of family life the man's job has been that of providing. Perhaps it is better after all to give encouragement and confidence that he is still equal to that responsibility for the family. WHAT SHOULD MOTHERS DO? 413While children are small this is especially important. After all, accepted traditions represent the best from previous generations. Family economic and social havoc may result from throwing overboard too many established principles of successful family life. In cases of emergency or dire need women have gone into different kinds of industry and carried the working day load in addition to extra responsibilities before and after hours. Unfortunately, however, the lure of associations in stores and offices more often than not keeps the woman on the outside job after the immediate need is passed. During the present depression when the husband remained unemployed many mothers have kept their families off the relief rolls. Contact with many of these fine women brings admiration for sportsmanship and willing sacrifice, as well as administrative ability. The exceptional childless woman who manages well, who desires a career, and whose husband is more or less married to his job, may be guilty of grave injustice to herself if she does not find some outside means to use up her pent-up energy. However, if this desire for money making and resultant independence carries on for 10-20-30 years let us hope that the sacred bonds of matrimony will not be stretched to the breaking point. In some cases it is true that an extra job in the family adds interest and stimulates giveand-take relationships. There are cases on record, however, where the official head of the family becomes tired of this business partnership and desires a more rested companion to share his interests and approve his ambitions. There is also grave danger in the home that the over-ambitious, nervous woman may work far beyond 414 her strength. 'There are certain eliminations that are good form and failure to see true values is sheer folly. Saving a few cents in payment for labor may result in otherwise unwise expenditure of many dollars for hospital and doctor bills. More important, however, than money waste is the devastating effect on children and husband of living with frayed nerves and almost constant resulting irritability. Recently a friend made the statement that she did not feel very democratic after she had been around some children raised in private schools as they were so charming and proper. Another woman commenting on children who had been raised in schools abroad expressed her feeling by saying, "Those children have lovely manners and speak several languages beautifully but their emotions seem all bottled up, to me, they are stilted and unnatural." "Half of Bob's pleasure," she continued, "in spelling the words correctly or working his arithmetic problem is running up to me with a man hug and whispering, 'I got all my problems today.' This exuberance means more to me than correct suppression." "Even in private schools," she continued, "there are too few instructors or house mothers to really share successes or sorrows with youngsters." "And then," she asked, "what are mothers for?" RECENTLY there was a discussion of a financially successful family. The children had attended boarding schools most of their lives. During these youngsters' late adolescence the emotional life of the family landed on the rocks. There was the usual triangle and subsequent divorce. Not to be outdone, the mother remarried. With so little respect for marriage as a holy institution it was not at all remarkable RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that one of the daughters participated in a runaway marriage. Neither will it surpass understanding if this hasty marital experience climaxes in a spectacular divorce. The mother had been very proud of a business career which had been unusually successful. During the discussion the question was raised— need there have been a family smash if the mother had remained satisfied with her wife and motherhood responsibilities and kept the family together as a group? In family life as well as in business dealings it is unethical to "rob Peter to pay Paul." The desire to rob, more often than not, results from over ambition. In questionable big business it is outsmarting the victims. On the sheet it may be petty larceny totaling to only a few cents or a few dollars. In the home it may be gross injustice resulting from shifting personal responsibilities. Can the few extra dollars for a better car, a bigger rug, a desired trip, compensate an inferiority complex in a child caused by being brought up by a disagreeable maid over months or years while mother has a career? Can lack of companionship between husband and wife, mother and children be measured by a few paltry dollars? There are frequently occasions of special needs when extra money seems imperative. If an ambitious child desires training above all things else, it may be wise to break the accepted routine of living. Sometimes a woman whose desire for beauty or for social advancement have been nearly smothered find some outlet or change is necessary. These and other examples, however, are not sufficient argument for the number of married women trying to do two jobs. It is the exceptional woman with almost limitless energy who should expect much satisfaction in WHAT SHOULD MOTHERS DO? Dividing time, interest, and energy between her home and the so-called business which in many cases results in unfairness to the different members of the family. THE mentally, emotionally or physically fagged individual lacks understanding and quick sympathy. Recently a deserted wife who was trying valiantly to earn a living made the comment, “Why do married women want to work and go home too tired to give a decent welcome to husbands or be too weary to more than mumble responses to the recounting of children's various experiences?" "It frightens me," she continued, "for fear my children will think I have lost interest in what they do." "My head throbbed last night after a hard day in the store. Jack's voice broke a bit when he said, 'Mom, you didn't listen, I won't tell you again.'"" Perhaps this particular incident was unimportant, but what will be the cumulative effect of self-repression on Jack's normal development? Susan, age four years, is accepted as one of the difficult children in kindergarten. She has what might be called the pouting habit. At home it works. Mother is the first one to leave in the morning and Father is too hurried to resort to first principles of discipline. The two older brothers and one sister, usually hurrying to school make vague promises to her pouting demands in their desire to get to school before the last bell. The last half hour before Susan is on her way with the neighbors' children is most trying for Nora as she frantically tries to get Susan to eat according to orders and only succeeds in irritating the youngest member of the family to tears. With only half enough breakfast Susan is bound to be troublesome until mid-morning lunch when 415 her behavior approaches that of a better conditioned child. After her return home in the early afternoon she demands first one attention and then another but is definitely unhappy because of lack of personal interest and understanding of herself. She is unfortunately an unloved child. Her social-emotional satisfactions are similar to John's definition of a vacuum—'a hole where there ain't nothing." "THERE are comparatively few cases on record where children have been sufficiently divorced from home atmosphere to talk freely in the office or at the business of either parent. Too often offices are devoid of personal effects as well as happy memories. In comparison, the pre-dinner atmosphere at home is usually marked with anticipation and friendliness. Frequently the usual food aromas stimulate confidence. One mother of three boys maintains that the most opportune time for confidences is in the kitchen when she is too busy to seem curious as to what has happened in the past twenty-four hours. A little extra stirring on her part which successfully hides her anxiety usually overcomes any reticence on the part of the child. The name of the latest girl friend comes naturally into the conversation. Plans for the next party come up for approval. It is commonly understood that when Mother and one member of the family are engaged in conversation that there is a recognized "busy" sign on the opposite side of the door. Perhaps paid employees can obtain similar confidences but the evidence fails to show it. In one home where managing the household was the major responsibility Mrs. A. Found that the back living room if she were resting encouraged understanding discussions 416 and admissions. It must be understood that a feeling of peace and ease are necessary before one person old or young divulges secrets or thoughts that are essentially his. Where a woman works outside the home the time element becomes rather an important one. Just as it takes time to build friendships outside the home it also requires careful attention and interest to maintain rapport among the family group. Lack of courage sometimes results in children: taking a round-about course. The other evening a somewhat bashful four and a half year-old wanted to share candy with neighbors. He filled a box from his bag of candy and began passing to his mother. Not quite understanding his hospitable intent she suggested he save his candy until tomorrow. His objection to this fortunately was not overruled so that after passing to the family he finally reached the guests who accepted the proffered gift and expressed appreciation over his thoughtfulness. Thoroughly satisfied with his success in sharing his sweets he soon went happily to bed. Due to the understanding guidance in his home this child, fortunately, is becoming a social individual who plays and works RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE wholeheartedly. He has the advantage of being both understood and loved more than some less fortunate children of his age. THERE seems to be a growing need for more women to reevaluate the one full time job not listed as an occupation in the United States Census. It is high time that the opportunities thus afforded in the home of working out, satisfactory human relationships be more appreciated. Building healthy bodies, creating wholesome mental attitude, and developing satisfactory habits of work and play requires both leadership and training. Planning and spending the family income affords fine experience in getting money's worth. Satisfactory use of laborsaving devices demand both intelligence and care. Necessary production and utilization of foods, fabrics, and materials demand greater intelligence than many jobs outside the home require. Family building is the biggest responsibility that a woman can have. Success in establishing satisfactory cooperation and harmonious relationships with other members of the family elevates the job of homemaking to a composite one of skilled worker, executive, and teacher. This combination is seldom listed in employment ads. Be sober and temperate, and you will be healthy.—Franklin. Joy, temperance, and repose, slam the door on the doctor's nose.— Longfellow. It is better to be neat and tidy than tight and needy.—"Cobbers." Alcohol is the pick-me-up that lets you down.—''Cobbers." Growing Old Gracefully By Beatrice E. Linford A FEW years ago most people that I saw were older than A myself. Now it is quite different, so many I meet are younger than I am. This can mean only one thing, I am growing older. To me that is about the most tragic statement I could make, because all my life I have had a horror of growing old. I think I have dreaded this more than any other thing with which I am confronted. I do not fear death, although I do not wish to die, now. However, I think I should much prefer death to a tragic, helpless, old-age period. I do not fear famine, war, rebellion or earthquake, but I do fear growing old. The first question that presents itself is, why does one fear old age with such intensity? It is perhaps because in looking around us we see so many elderly people who have lost their loveliness, their vigor, their strength, they have outlived their usefulness, and are now merely a burden upon their loved ones and associates. While no one is blaming them, it is a sad condition. Life is so lovely, so beautiful, and there are so many wonderful things in this world to do that one need never lack for something pleasant and interesting to keep him occupied. Just try to imagine becoming at some time in life so tired and feeble that all this beauty by which we are surrounded would no longer be of interest to us. True, gray hairs and wrinkled cheeks are not necessarily the only signs of old age. There are people I know whose hair is snowy white, yet their spirit is as full of happiness and interest as youth. How everyone admires the person who keeps young in spite of the gray hairs and the added weight of years. On the other hand, we find people who seem to be old when they are born. They seem never to have anything youthful or cheery about them. To be around them is to be ever permeated with a spirit of gloom. There is one woman in particular who has seemingly been just as old as she is now ever since I was a small child. She wears a woolen petticoat in the summer time for fear she will catch her death of cold, and she never ventures out without a fascinator or two to tie-around her head. When the first snowfall appears, she hibernates for the winter and one never sees her except through a tiny crack in the door. She is mortally afraid of fresh air, Never does she forget a sorrow or grief. She never misses a funeral if she can possibly get to it. She never forgets the death of a loved one, nor will she ever let anyone else forget it. All her life she has enjoyed very poor health and each illness is minutely reviewed for the benefit of each unenlightened friend; then she continually bewails the fact that no one ever comes to visit her. Thirty years ago she lost a child with pneumonia, she still weeps every time she recalls it. Her husband died, (happy release for him) and she has been weeping ever since, although he was paralyzed for months, and it was impossible for him to ever recover. To me this woman has always been old. If I had to live with her I myself would be old. 418 Fear old age as I may, I know it is inevitable, and I must face it. So I have tried to build a few rules for myself to prevent such a hasty old age, or at least that I might approach it sensibly. Let us consider together just what we can do about this problem of age. What can we do to keep young or at least to grow old gracefully? Health is one of the first requirements toward perennial youth, and one of the simplest rules toward health is to eat the proper foods. Let us not allow ourselves to become over corpulent, if it can possibly be avoided. If this does happen, watch the diet carefully, and reduce a few pounds. Our own Word of Wisdom is a pretty good rule to follow if one wishes to keep young, because proper living tends toward health and beauty. Famous beauty experts are beginning to recognize the value of keeping the Word of Wisdom as taught by the "Mormons." Exercise, keep active; it is a serious thing to allow one's self to become stiff and inactive. If health permits, long walks should be taken daily in the open air. If you dance, continue to dance; if you skate or ski or swim, play golf, tennis, or like horse-back riding, keep on doing them; do not cease because you are a little older. These things keep the muscles from growing flabby and old. It is a good plan to keep busy, to always have some interesting work to do. Of course, we all have our daily tasks, but we need a change from them or they become monotonous. There are hundreds of interesting things to do outside of our daily routine, so many that space will not permit an enumeration of them all. A flower garden to dig in, with tender plants to care for and nourish into gorgeous blooms is a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE good suggestion. A vegetable garden is even a better suggestion. Raising a garden of any kind is a splendid way to keep young, or to forget trouble. Let us join a cultural club, literary, flower garden, mother's, art, or any club where we will have something interesting to plan for and interesting people to cultivate. Next we must take an interest in community affairs, the school, the church, the government of city, county, state, and nation. We must keep alert to events transpiring in the world. We must try to keep just ahead of our children, but if they succeed in getting ahead of us let's not allow them: to find it out. We should read a few minutes every day, fifteen minutes is what Dr. Elliot prescribed. We must be sure to get this in even if it has to be done. After retiring at night. Reading helps to keep us alert. "As a man thinketh so is he!" Other interesting things that might be done are, taking music lessons, or learning to paint, carve or model in clay. A class in applied art would be interesting, or learning to write, dance, or speak French. Perhaps you think I am insane to make such suggestions as these to ageing people, but I have seen middle-aged women take dancing, and music lessons both, and make a success of them. We know that the old-fashioned idea that people grow too old to learn is all out of date. Whatever we do we must not grow lazy and lose interest in our surroundings. Having something to do worth doing and loving to do it is the greatest joy of life. For our next venture let's doll up a bit, change the style of our hairdress, part it in the middle or cut it. We might get a permanent wave, use a little rouge, lipstick and wear earrings. We should make our clothes GROWING OLD GRACEFULLY in the latest style and set them off with little bunches of gay flowers. Let's get us some nice perfume and manicure our nails, and it will be surprising how the years will suddenly drop away when ong begins to primp up a little. Then after we are all dressed up, let's get our husbands to take us to the opera, to the dance, or to whatever is going on, and make up our minds to enjoy it. Assocation with young people helps to keep one young. Attend Relief Society, Sunday School, or Mutual and be one with the class in their parties. | Partake of their youthful enthusiasm, joy, and spontaneity; laugh as they do, and grow young again as you guide them to beautiful maturity. The next prescription is to be happy. We should not let little things worry us and should learn to laugh away the big troubles. "When the day is gloomy sing some happy song"', are the words of a song which is certainly good advice to all who would keep youny. We should cultivate the habit of smiling at everyone we see. Some modern beauty critics tell us that smiling causes wrinkles, but if it does, the wrinkles obtained through smiling will be turned up rather than down, and on the face rather than in the heart. Whatever we do let's keep the wrinkles out of our heart, because after all is said and done old 419 age like real goodness cometh from within. The poet tells us that age is a quality of mind. AGE "Age is a quality of mind If you have left your dreams behind, If hope is cold, If you no longer look ahead, li your ambition fires are dead, Then you are old. "But if from life you take the best, And if in life you see the jest, If love you hold, No matter how the years roll by, No matter how the birthdays fly, You are not old." Added to this we should strive to do some kind act every day or at least every opportunity that presents itself. We might send a tray of lunch to a sick neighbor or a freshly baked pie or a new loaf of bread to another. We can send a flower to a lonely old lady, call a friend on the telephone, send a birthday greeting to a loved one, or a cheery verse to one who is sad. We can speak kindly to someone who is unfortunate, and all these things will bring a deep content and satisfaction that makes for true happiness, and the truly happy are never old. After all is said and done the only things we really keep in life are those we give away. So let us share our youth and happiness with everyone, ther will they truly be ours. GROWING OLD By Filindia S. Huff Dear Lord; I do not care if I am growing old; For I can take with me down through the years, The beauty of a younger day. Though hair grow white, and footsteps lose their grace, I still may laugh at childhood' s happy face, At morn I pluck a rose; And though its leaves may wither and decay; I still may smell its fragrance down to the End of day. The Lotus Eater By Mabel S. Harmer CHAPTER 11 HELEN was tremendously relieved to have Monday morning arrive so that she could begin her work. It had rained all day Saturday and Sunday and the valley had looked grey, sodden and desolate. Helen found herself desperately fighting a threatened case of homesickness and wondering if spring would ever really come and_take her back to the luxurious golden sunshine of California. The Rileys had been very cordial to her but there was no one in the family anywhere near her own age with whom she might be congenial and after all, it was their business to make her comfortable and not to supply her with mental diversions. She had spent part of Sunday reading the few magazines she had brought with her and had written a letter to Wayne Kent whom she facetiously called "the boy I left behind me" but when she had attempted to write a letter to the folks at home, the state of her feelings began to show in the letter so she stopped for the time being. She was not going to let them know that she was homesick if she could help it. She dressed carefully for school, brushing her fair hair until it shone and putting on a soft blue blouse that matched her eyes. She wanted very much to make a good impression on her students and remembered that when she had been little she had always liked the pretty teachers the best. There were two other teachers at the school, one for the primary grades and a man who acted as principal and taught the upper grades. Helen found herself assigned to the third, fourth and fifth grades with nearly thirty students. She felt bewildered and almost helpless and wished that her training had consisted less of theory and more of practice. She finally struggled through the day, however, and said goodnight to her young charges as pleasantly as if the day had been altogether a happy one. FLORENCE CALL, a local girl who taught the younger children, came in to find Helen seated at her desk trying to rub some of the weariness out of her forehead. "How did it go?" she asked pleasantly, perching herself on one of the student's desks. "Perfectly terrible," said Helen with a doleful look. "Does it ever get any easier and does one ever get used to this job?" "Of course it gets easier. The first day is always confusing but you'll soon get the swing of things. There are always problems like the Morris boy who seems to live only to plague the teacher, and Jeanie Welch whose nose always needs attention, and Ben Roberts who insists upon bringing various live pets to school and—" "Oh, don't tell me any more," interrupted Helen throwing up her hands, "I won't sleep tonight if you do." Florence laughed. "It isn't all disagreeable," she said. "There are lots of pleasant things about the work too." THE LOTUS EATER "I hope so," sighed Helen, "I''ll need a few." "Do you think you are going to like it out here?" continued Florence sociably. "I've got to like it," answered Helen a bit grimly. “I'd die if I had to live nearly a year in a town that I didn't like. Ill be all right though, as long as I can keep busy. I found out long ago that its usually the people with nothing to do who are unhappy." "Oh, we always manage to keep busy out here even if we do live in the country," said Florence. "There are dances on Saturday nights. Later on there'll be sleighing parties and we can see the best movies made by driving five miles over to Riverton. Would you like to go to the dance with us this week?" "I'd love to." answered Helen. "but will it be all right for me to go without an escort?" "Perfectly all right. We don't stand upon ceremony out here. Anyway—you'll soon have an escort." "Really! And to whom will the honor go?" Helen asked highly amused. "Jo Bevers. He always takes out the school teacher." "T think it's funny," chuckled Helen, "the way everything is prearranged for me. Billy Prentiss took me straight to Riley's because that is where the teacher always stays and he assumed that eventually I would marry and settle down here because the teacher always does and now you tell me that I already have a beau. Do all the teachers conform to the pattern?" "Not quite all," admitted Florence with a smile, "but most of them do." "Well I shan't," said Helen with 421 finality, "but anyway I'll be most happy to go to the dance with you." FOR a week Helen left the schoolroom each night to go home and spend the evening reading or writing letters in her tiny room. The Riley's seemed to spend most of their time in the large kitchen and although they urged her to "make herself at home" she always felt like she was intruding when she ventured back there. By the time Saturday evening arrived she was thoroughly tired of her own room and looked forward to going to the dance more so than she could remember having done in years. She felt the eyes of almost everyone in the hall upon her when she walked in with Florence and her friends and knew that they were being more or less critical of her so she made a special effort to appear friendly and unassuming. She was most anxious that she be liked by the people of the little community during her stay there. The hall was crudely finished and the music, without any doubt, the worst that Helen had ever danced to but everyone seemed to be having an especially good time and she was certainly in the mood for one herself. Her dancing partners were plentiful and of all descriptions. The first one announced himself as a cowboy "just turned loose off the range" and most of the rest of them fell into the same category. Usually they danced well, however, and as soon as they found out that "the girl from the city" wasn't going to be "high hat" with them they were cordial and friendly. She was keenly interested early in the evening to notice the young 422 man who had helped her over the fence the week before eyeing her rather solemnly from a distance. He was tall and well built with very dark eyes and hair and a much more sensitive looking face than Helen had expected in a cowboy, which she supposed he was. She rather imagined that she would like to dance with him but he made no effort to seek an introduction nor even to speak to her. The dance was half over when Florence said with proper emphasis, "Miss Burt, may I present Mr. Bevers?" Jo Bevers had been away to school and now worked with his father who owned the general store. He lacked the bronzed complexion of the other boys who spent most of their time out of doors. He was better dressed and carried such an air of superiority that Helen felt an almost uncontrollable desire to slap him. She danced with him instead, however, and made herself fairly agreeable. She also danced a second time with him but when he came up the third time she thought it was about time she nipped the apparently incipient courtship in the bud so glancing around she said, "I believe I am dancing this with someone else." The tall, dark, man had moved a trifle closer and walking a few steps over to him she said, "Isn't this our dance?" "Er—sure," he answered after a moment's hesitation. They danced around the hall in silence once and then he said, "I suppose I had better introduce myself. My name is Dan Marshall." "I know," said Helen frankly, "I asked." He looked at her with a puzzled air for a minute and then RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE asked, "Why did you want to dance with me?" "I didn't especially," was Helen's surprising answer, "although I am very glad to have a chance to thank you for helping me out the other evening. I just didn't want to dance with someone else." "Oh, I see," he said and then added with just a tinge of sarcasm. "I'm glad to be of service at any time when you need help in escaping from wild animals or undesirable dancing partners." "Are you disagreeable to everyone?" Helen asked, looking up at him and wishing that he would guide rather than push her around the hall. ' "No," he answered shortly. "Oh—just to me then." It was more a statement than a question. The floor leader saved him from replying by suddenly calling "grand right and left" and they separated to go around the hall in different directions. Helen was a bit chagrined that they had parted so unsatisfactorily. IN the week that followed she met Dan Marshall often at parties and dances and always he treated her with an aloofness that she found most provoking. All of the young people of the community were most friendly and invariably included her in: their merrymakings with this one exception. Dan seemed to have a positive determination to treat her coolly.; She was not sure whether it was this that formed the basis of his attraction for her or whether she was really interested in him for himself but she had to admit that he held decidedly more attraction for her than did any of the other young people of the town. For that matter, she could never re- THE LOTUS EATER member ever before having had the same feeling for anyone that she had for Dan. Her friendship with Wayne Kent at home had been only a High School boy and girl affair, at least that was the way she had always regarded it, and there had been only a few other casual friendships with boys. Now, however, she frequently found herself daydreaming of Dan Marshall and thinking that it might be very thrilling to fall in love with someone like him. He looked so strong and capable that she could fancy him doing his work in the great out of doors with a minimum of effort. He had a slow smile that seemed to come as much from his dark eyes as from his lips and Helen found herself wishing that he would direct it at her more often. Contrary to Florence's prediction she did not accept the attentions of Jo Bevers and hoped that eventually Dan would show more interest in her, but as the winter wore on he continued to treat her in the same distant manner. HELEN was at once amazed and delighted with the snow that came early in November and eventually grew so deep that it covered the fence tops. She loved nothing better than to get into a large bobsleigh with plenty of warm quilts and go singing down the country roads on crisp frosty evenings. Her struggle to keep warm with the little black heater in her room was another matter and there were mornings when she thought that she would undoubtedly freeze before she was able to get a fire going. There were times when she found it best not to think of California with its sunny skies and roses blooming in midwinter. 423 On the whole, however, she accepted it all in the spirit of adventure and thrilled to each new experience. Next to bobsleighing she loved the times when the crowd went coasting up on the hillside. There was something about skimming down the long white expanse that almost took her very breath away, and the ravenous appetite that such an excursion produced was sure to be delightfully appeased with oyster stew in someone's hospitable kitchen later on. ONE moonlit night when she had joined the young people for a coasting party, Helen had trudged up the hill a dozen times for the joy of whisking down again over its icy whiteness. Dan was in the crowd as usual, and as usual had kept a safe distance away from her. They had decided to go down only once more before going home and when Helen reached the top she saw Dan sitting on his sled about to start out alone. In an impulsive moment she ran and flung herself down in front of him and the sleigh started off. Dan swung away from the course they ordinarily followed and took a path down the side of the hill that was much longer. The force of the swiftly moving sled threw her back against Dan and she felt a surge of emotion go through her that was both exquisite and painful as his arms tightened in her support. As they sped on Helen had a feeling that she was traveling through space. She wished that it might never end and then suddenly saw that it was about to end quickly and perhaps disastrously. A fence loomed in front of them that had been so nearly hidden by the snow that they had 424 failed to see it until it was too late to stop. Dan attempted to slip off the sleigh and pull Helen with him but before he could do so they struck a post and Helen was thrown several feet onto the snow. She was stunned for a few moments and lay quite still. Then she felt Dan lifting her up and crying frantically, "Helen, oh Helen, are you hurt?" She kept her eyes closed for a moment longer fearing to break the spell and when she finally looked up there was such a look of anxiety and love in Dan's eyes that her heart pounded up into her very throat. She smiled faintly at him as she asked, "Would it matter?" "Matter?" he echoed, "Oh my dear!" He held her hungrily for a moment and then released her. "What is it Dan?" asked Helen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE touching his arm ever so lightly. He looked back at her with tightened lips. "I don't dare to love you," he said, "You should know that." "And why don't you dare?" she asked breathlessly. "Our lives have been too different. You are refined and educated. All I could offer you would be a home out here in this wild country. It wouldn't be enough for you." "It would be—with you," she said softly, smiling up at him. "Helen, are you sure? Do you realize what you would be giving up?' Dan's voice was tense as if he were trying to burn the words into her consciousness. "I realize that I love you, that nothing else matters," she answered. (To be Continued) A Day For The Old Folks By Marie J. Maher THE custom of having Old Folks' Day, I am told, started back in '76, or thereabouts. It happened this way: Mr. McCune and Mr. Savage were walking along a street of Salt Lake City, nodding and smiling in a friendly manner to all whom they met. Finally they turned in at the home of one of their old friends to bid him the time of day, only to find none of his family home except the real little ones, who were being cared for by their grandparents. "When do you take your outing?" inquired Mr. Savage of the grandmother. "Oh," she smiled, "Our days for good times are over. If we get enough to eat, a fire in winter to sit by, a cradle to rock, we have our pleasure." The two men walked on down the street to find many other cases where the old folks were taking care of their grand-babies while the parents were away. There were no complaints from these elderly babytenders. They were cheerful and happy about it. "Seems to me," said Mr. McCune, "these old folks should have their day, too." "You are right," said Mr. Savage. "We must see that they have an outing, also!" UNLIKE so many generous ideas that are talked about but never materialize, this one went through, A DAY FOR THE OLD FOLKS for these two men gathered others together, and planned the first Old Folks' Day. All the old people met in a grove that first year, and they have met one day each year ever since in all the towns of Utah, on the most convenient day for the individual communities. ON Thursday, the eighteenth of June, 1936, Ogden honored her old folks, and nearly two thousand of them gathered in Lorin Farr Park. No attention was paid to nationality or religion: the only passport needed was Old Age. The honored guests must have seen at least seventy years. Seventy and eighty years were given a red badge, from eighty to ninety a blue one, and a few proudly wore the white badge, showing that they were ninety years old or more. This was my first Old Folks' party, and my friends and I arrived early. At ten minutes to eleven there were a few workers on the grounds, setting up cookstoves and refrigerators, and arranging the easy chairs and sofas for the infirm. The leaders of the different wards were there, and committee women hurried to and fro. Then it was eleven o'clock and cars began rolling into the grounds, from long shining cars down to little shaky one-ton trucks, all disgorging old people. Some of them were straight and sprightly, some leaned on others for support, a few were carried in on stretchers. Wheel chairs were common, One man came in staring straight ahead of him, looking neither to the right nor left. We thought he might be too aristocratic for the common herd, but found later that he always stared straight ahead of him from necessity. Those between - 425 FORTY tables, each seating about that many people, were laid under the shade trees, and without benefit of place cards one found oneself (miraculously) seated beside some old friend one had loved but had not seen for years. Dinner was served promptly at twelve, and no one who ever sat at one of those tables will ever forget it. Baked ham such as no Kentuckian ever excelled; fried chicken —huge platters heaped with goldenbrown, delectable portions which were pressed upon us until we felt like crying, "Help!" Every variety of vegetable was represented at that dinner. Then the tables were cleared, and dark and white layer cake was passed; and when white layer cake is good it is a family tradition. To top the feast, we were served strawberries and ice cream. HAPPY from plenty of good food and congenial company, the grandmothers and grandfathers, with a liberal sprinkling of great grandmothers and fathers, wandered in clusters of twos and threes from ward to ward assemblage, greeting old friends. ENTERTAINING programs were now put on for the guests; the songs they had loved long ago were sung again. As I passed one group a strong young voice was singing a humerous song and the old people beating time with their feet. Walking on, I found the scene changed. This ward was_ sentimental; the old folks seemed to enjoy themselves immensely being sad. Some were even wiping their eyes as they sang, "In a corner obscure and alone, they have whetted a slab of the granite so gray, and Sweet Alice lies under the stone." 426 At another place "Roll Along, Prairie Wagon, Roll Along," fairly shook the ground. IN some parts of the grounds the guests were just visiting. There was no one here to frown on grandma when she held the center of the stage, telling about her infirmities. Home remedies were freely discussed, and the days recalled when there were no hospitals and the midwife brought into the world the future statesmen, lawyers, and doctors. One pioneer with flowing beard and dimmed eyes recalled the time when he was camping by a road in Idaho, and a young Indian and his squaw came along: "The woman appeared very ill. I invited them to come and eat, and gave them bread, coffee and bacon. Pretty soon the young squaw, without comment, got up and went off alone into the sagebrush. We hitched up our teams and prepared to clear camp, but before we drove on the young Indian woman came back carrying a tiny, new red papoose in her arms. The Indian women are 'heap strong'," he observed. "Another time," this pioneer related, "a band of my mules got away from me, and joined a herd of wild Indian ponies, up in the Reservation north of Pocatello, Idaho. I asked some Indians to try to get my mules back for me, which they did. As a reward, I gave each one of them a red shirt which pleased them mightily, and for a long time afterwards a red shirt was not an uncommon sight on an Indian." "Those were the days of quick shooting," observed another old. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE timer, "Many of the pioneers carried forty-five calibre revolvers. The cost of them was about fortyfive dollars in Salt Lake City. We used to practice shooting, never taking aim, but just shooting by instinct. I could drive a tack at three rods with one of those six-shooters." Next I paused to listen to two old ladies exchanging reminiscences of the early days: "I was sent to a neighbor's to get a candle mold, and delayed to play with the children instead of starting for home at once. At last I noticed the sun had set, and grabbing the mold. I lit out for home. I had to go through some timber, and I heard wolves howling somewhere in it. I was so scared that chills chased each other up and down my spine. I imagined I saw long gray shadows through the trees. The most welcome sight of my life was my brother coming on horseback to meet me, yelling like a Commanche Indian." The other old lady said, "When we need a paper of pins now we order them from the store, but I mind the time when my sister and I picked long thorns off'n the gooseberry bushes. And they made good pins, too. And do you recall how we forked potatoes out from the hills of new potatoes with a table fork? If we didn't have any luck, there was no supper that night." THE busy committee ladies were helping the old folks up to the tables for their second meal that day. They were growing weary from so much talking and excitement. But sound sleep would visit their couches that night as a result of their glad day spent in the open. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon JULY—Rich in her summer loveliness Earth gives a clarion call to her festivals. LADY NANCY ASTOR, American born Viscountess and first woman to sit in the British parliament has had conferred upon her by King George VI the Order of the Companions of Honor, for conspicuous service of national importance. QUEEN ELIZABETH is fond of dancing. Her favorite is the waltz which will be most popular during coronation year. AGNES DAVIS, who won the Atwater Kent Radio audition this year, made her debut as Elsa in "Lohengrin" at the Metropolitan last May. ELEANOR ROOSEVELT showed again her philanthropic spirit in suggesting the purchase of a wheel chair for a crippled girl with the money contemplated for flowers for herself. INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN of the Relief Society general board who died last month was a choice and valiant daughter of the Church and State, dearly loved and deeply mourned. WINIFRED HATHAWAY of New York was awarded the 1937 Leslie Dana gold medal for outstanding achievements in the prevention of blindness. NELLIE TAYLOR ROSS presided at the dedication ceremonies of the U. S. Mint in San Francisco. "Time Marches On" and so does the status of women. LUELLA UDALL, Relief Society president of St. John's stake for 35 years, and first presiding officer over the women in the Arizona Temple died last spring. Her life was full of service and sacrifice. ELEANOR FARJEON'S latest book "Humming Bird" is an imaginative fantasy as quaint as "The Old Curiosity Shop" and as delicate as a Watteau picture.. E. M. DELAFIELD, English novelist in her new book "I Visit the Soviets," maintains her delightful style of story telling in giving the reader a true picture of her Russian travels. She also causes one to feel it is better to read about Russia than live there. WILLIE SNOW ETHRIDGE has published "I Live and Breathe" a charming southern story. Rich with humor and amusing descriptions. OLGA MORRIS' "Windswept," Edith Roberts' "Candle In The Sun," and Queen Marie's "Marks" are some recent books for vacation reading. EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY'S new volume of poems called "Conversations at Midnight" will be a welcome book to the lover of poetry. MARJORIE HILLIS' "An Orchid On Your Budget Or Live Smartly On What You Have" is destined to be as popular as the best seller "Live Alone And Like It" by the same author. Recollections of the Lion House By Edith Young Booth "How dear to my heart are the scenes of my childhood, When fond recollection presents them to view! The orchard, the meadow, the deeptangled wildwood, And every loved spot which my infancy knew." HOW often have these lines struck a responsive chord as I recall my impressions of the dear old Lion House in my childhood. At that time my Grandmother, Harriet Elizabeth Cook Young, occupied six rooms of this historic mansion. Her kitchen and dining room were on the ground floor, on the west side of the second floor she had her parlor and one bedroom, across the hall east was her guest chamber, and a portion of the third story she occupied as a combined library and storeroom. In the latter, popular magazines of that period, Peterson's, Family Herald, Bow Bells, and Perry's, as well. As the local church publications—Woman's Exponent, and the Juvenile Instructor were piled up by years to be read during her leisure time. The door to this room was locked, and only on rare occasions were any of us permitted to enter. Because of frequent searches during the "raid" by United States deputy marshals, my father was invited to bring his family to live in some of Grandmother's and Aunt Twiss's rooms for about a year. I vividly recollect the cellar room in the southeast corner of the ground floor, and the laundry room in the west center of the same floor where were found such conveniences as running water, tubs and a stove with large brass kettles, etc. The green door shutters, the long dark halls, the wide staircase, always filled me with delight, mingled with awe. Once I dared suggest that I slide down the banisters, but Grandmother very sternly told me not to do this, stating that Grandfather Young would never have approved of such an undignified action. Likewise, when I swung on one of the huge doorknobs, she immediately stopped me with the same admonition. I knew very little of the great pioneer's life at that time, but I received the deep impression from her, that whatever he disapproved of, I should refrain from doing. Before Grandfather's death it was the custom of the family on going out at night to take their own lamps and place them on a table in the hall near the front door while they were away. As each one came in, he took his individual lamp to his own room and the last one in locked the door for the night. GRANDMOTHER was aristocratic in appearance and nature, and although she lived by herself, she never once ate a meal without a clean white tablecloth. In fact her table was "laid" with a castor in the center containing salt, black and white pepper bottles, vinegar, mustard and oil, plate, knife, fork and a goblet, with her napkin in a silver ring, ready to be used at the next meal. These she covered with another white cloth. That was always my impression of the table when I visited her alone, after our family had moved back to the farm. Although just a tiny girl, RECOLLECTIONS OF THE LION HOUSE this appealed to me as a very sensible thing to do. I thought, with a sigh, how easy setting the table would be if we at home could just put the dishes back on the table, and avoid the trouble of taking them out of the cupboard again. Then it seemed so nice and quiet for a change to have the two of us eating together instead of our noisy ten. And the things we had to eat! Bakers bread, or "store bread" as it was then called, was practically unknown to us, and to have Grandmother give me a dollar, and send me to Scrace's Bakery (oh that name, how many happy recollections it recalls) and buy bread, cakes and pies indeed gave to an eight year old girl a thrill that has never been equalled. A SORT of religious feeling came over me whenever I sat on one of her Mohair chairs, or the settee in the parlor. They appeared so grand, and the bright parlor carpet, which was of a large red and green pattern, made me even more appreciative of the fact that Grandmother lived in Salt Lake, or as some of the country folk called it then, "The City." My oldest sister, Rose, stayed with her for three months one winter, and I remember very well visiting them for a few days. How I loved to sleep in those beds with the high backs, and how the washstands, yellow like the woodwork, and woodboxes near the fireplace added to the coziness of the bedrooms. IN each of the bedrooms was one of the Lion House parlor chairs, the most comfortable to sit upon I have ever tried. One of these priceless heirlooms is in my possession. THE thrill which my sister Stella and I received by being permitted to sit on the lion in front of the 429 house is one still bright in my recollection. My father, Oscar B. Young, explained the significance of the lion's being placed on this home. In Vermont his father's birthplace, all well-to-do farmers had a symbol on their dwelling, and these were known far and wide. This tradition was perpetuated in both the Lion and Bee-hive Houses. Grandfather had always greatly admired the lion's bravery and majestic appearance, and the industry of the bee. How I loved to go through the high rock wall in front of the Lion House, and the huge wide gate with the heavy iron latch. TRIPS to the tithing office store were another interesting feature. Produce both of the farm and shop, and merchandise were all received as tithing in those days. Eggs, meat, butter, could be obtained at this church institution. The barns at the rear of the Lion House were used by us as playhouses, particularly the hay loft, as there were very few animals kept there in those days. Large lawns were laid out on the west side of the building, on these my brothers and sisters also spent many happy hours in play. There were small porches or tiny balconies on the west of the Lion House upstairs, where I used to love to stand and gaze at the Angel Moroni, and the glorious Salt Lake Temple. No Hotel Utah obscured my view then, and how reverent I felt, and often wondered if I would ever be privileged to enter that wonderful building, and be married for time and eternity, and do work for the dead. Such were the thrills and happiness for the blessing of knowing my Grandmother, and being in the Lion House when it was used as a home! Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? BANNERS Take Time For Loyalty By Lella Marler Hoggan "By the driven snow-white and the living blood-red Of my bars, and their heaven of stars overhead— By the symbol conjoined of them all, skyward cast, As I float from the steeple, or flap at the mast, Or droop o'er the sod where the long grasses nod,— My name is as old as the glory of God.... So I came by the name of Old Glory." Our forefathers pledged their —James Whitcomb Riley.* lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor to the cause of liberty and justice in the new world. It was a. Solemn moment when they entered into that pact and affixed their names to that immortal document. What courage and fortitude and strength of character that test must have demanded. What a great undertaking it was for that little handful of God-fearing patriots to enter into the struggle that would redeem their pledge and would establish for us this glorious nation. Only a soldier who has faced the battle front can realize the physical hardships and mental strain they must have endured. Had not Washington glimpsed the vision of triumphant freedom, in that crucial hour at Valley Forge, the high efforts of that heroic band might have ended in a broken dream. And again, when the fate of the nation was in the balance, Lincoln's spiritual insight restored the tottering structure of State. His message revealed to America the high standard of liberty that was becoming enshrouded in doubt and fear. The heart of democracy was touched by his plea, "that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom; and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth." That call is re-echoing down the years to all true Americans today. Will its clarion notes counteract the spirit of unrest that is abroad in the world? A LAWLESS element sweeps through the land. Unprincipled men would fain overturn the ancient creeds, scrap the basic institutions of society, and tear to bits the sacred documents of law and order. This insidious force is attempting to undermine the very foundation of the temple of liberty. But that holy structure is builded on a groundwork broad and deep. It is made of enduring stones of character and high purpose, cut by the hands of heroic patriots. Whole-souled sacrifice and prayerful humility entered into the construction of that divinely patterned sanctuary. It is built to stand against all of the 432 unholy designs and chaotic schemes of unscrupulous minds, providing that "we, the people," faithfully discharge the solemn obligations with which we, have been entrusted. IT is an essential part of our freedom, a solemn duty that we owe to our illustrious dead, that we shall take time to review their struggles and recall the great price that they paid for the privileges we now enjoy. This grateful heritage has come to us so easily, without effort on our part, that we, perhaps, accept it somewhat thanklessly. We must remember that the American flag is more than a piece of painted linen. It cost long years of pain and sacrifice and sturdy endurance to place those stars and bars on that sacred banner. It is emblematic of the highest American idealism. It has come down to us unsullied. Should we not make it our solemn obligation to revere and guard it, and to hold secure for generations yet unborn RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the spirit of liberty and freedom that it proclaims to the world? Representative America still clings to the faith of its fathers. Our medium of exchange still bears the inscription, "In God We Trust." A bulwark of strength continues to surround the sacred rights and institutions that the nation has so dearly purchased. These ideals and traditions are patterns that must not be lost but be cherished and wrought into the lives of each succeeding generation. "O blessed land of labor and reward! O gracious Ruler, let Thy reign endure In orig hook and plow-share beat the sword,: And reap the harvest sure!" —James Whitcomb Riley.** *Name Of Old Glory: From Home Folks, by James Whitcomb Riley, Copyright 1900, 1928. Used by special permission of the Publishers, The BobbsMerrill Company. **Soldiers Here Today: From Fugitive Pieces, By James Whitcomb Riley. Copyright 1914. Used by special permission of the Publishers, The Bobbs-Merrill Company. SONNET By Alice Lee Eddy "Earth turns no beaten wanderer from her breast But heals him with her sunshine and her rain." She comforts him with hills and fields of grain, Refreshes him with lake and mountain crest, Soothes him with snows, and perfumed winds Spring-blest. No bleeding prodigal has sought in vain The solace of her silences, or lain Upon her verdant bosom without rest. She strengthens him with discipline of toil, Renews his courage with the marching years. Some primal alchemy in warm black soil Blots out the bitterness of dismal tears. No one so vile but night can hide his scars, And none so low he cannot know the stars. The Great White Throne By H. R. Merrill AMONG the wonders of Utah two that are widely known are the Mormon Tabernacle Choir and the Great White Throne. The one is in Salt Lake City, the other in Zion National Park, more than 300 miles away. Many interested people have dreamed of getting the two together. Obviously, the Throne could not be moved; therefore, it became necessary, if the miracle was to be worked, to transport the great choir to the Throne. Many agencies cooperated and on May 30—Memorial Day—the great choir with its officers, conductor, and accompanist went to Zion to broadcast from the foot of the Great White Throne. Though it scarcely ever rains in Zion National Park, it did on Decoration Day, adding to the difficulties to be overcome. It was a lovely day, however, for the artist, the musician, and the poet. Zion was in one of her lovely moods. Long before time for the services to begin the automobiles rolled into Zion to be on the spot when the great choir should get into action. Thousands wanted to hear the melodies of Zion fill the City of Zion. They wanted to hear the melodies roll up Angel's Landing and reverberate back against the mighty walls of the Great White Throne. WE HAD spent our night at Bryce, going over to Zion in the early morning. It was raining when we entered Long Valley and continued to rain as we approached the portals of Zion. It was lovely, however. The rain made the green greener and washed the world clean, leaving only sweet fragrances of joyful growing things. The pines and the cedars filled the air with incense. As we drove down toward the tunnels our joy increased. Rain had washed the cliffs absolutely clean until every seam and fissure and crack could be seen. Those great stone mountains were transformed into beautifully sculptured and ornamented pieces of architecture. Flowers— great white and pink penstemons— were everywhere clinging to the crevices where there was a spoonful of soil. All were in bloom making the place a lovely fairy garden whose massive walls disappeared into the over-hanging mists. Out of this fairy land we slipped into the matchless tunnels through whose wide portals we could catch glimpses of the great stone city towards which we were making our way. From the tunnels we glided out onto the bean-stalk roadway that "hitchety - hatchetied" down the mountain side. AS WE entered Zion we found ourselves a part of a great parade of cars. It was now raining rather hard and CCC boys stood beside the road in their nor'westers and slickers and looked a bit bedraggled and chilly—but cheerful. Rows of cars were parked about the lodge. We were urged to go on up the canyon and did so. At that time everybody expected the rain to stop in time for the broadcast. At the public campground, the main highway was blocked and we were directed into a parking area where gobs of mud like gobs of hasty 434 pudding stuck above the red water that was as thick as milk. Having had little breakfast, while it rained and the cars assembled, we sat in ours and ate some things we had provided. As 9:30 a. M. Approached, we noted a truck pass with the loud-speaking equipment in it and the word got around that the first site selected for the broadcast, on account of the rain had been abandoned. We followed the cars that immediately began rolling out of the parking places and soon found ourselves on the highway some distance from the lodge where the choir had assembled and our way blocked. Not liking our position, we decided to go up to the Temple of Sinawava and there, while we enjoyed the temple and the Great White Throne, listen to the choir by means of the radio in our car. Since the road had been blocked RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and we were able to get by only by means of an important piece of paper we carried, we were practically alone in the great Temple. Mists rose partially obscuring the Great White Throne and from every cliff cascaded waterfalls, many of them nearly 2,000 feet in height. It was lovely, but we soon discovered that what we had heard is true—radio reception down in the deep streets of Zion, is nil.. AFTER enjoying the cliffs and waterfalls for some time, we returned to the lodge where we sat and listened to the choir and to President Heber J. Grant's fine Memorial Day message. The loud speakers picked up the choir voices and sprayed them upon the canyon air. It was thrilling despite the rain to stand there in the awful presence of the Spirit of Zion canyon at THE GREAT WHITE THRONE ON MEMORIAL DAY, 1937 THE GREAT WHITE THRONE the foot of the Great White Throne and hear the great choir sing. The miracle had been worked. Four hundred choir members, their officers, conductors, and accompanists, had been picked up in Salt Lake City and transported to the foot of the Great Throne from which their music was broadcast to all the world. It sounds easy, but it was not easy. Imagine 400 people arriving at a railroad terminal in the early morning nearly one hundred miles from the spot from which they were to broadcast. Of course, they could not have reached that broadcasting station had not careful plans been laid. One hundred cars from Cedar City and the two Dixie stakes were awaiting the train. These cars had been gathered by hard-working committees whose love for Zion and the choir was so great that nothing could daunt them. Dr. D. Eldon Beck, chairman of the St. George committee, said the job was a big one, but after it was all done and the men were back home again there was a general feeling of satisfaction because all felt that they had done a big thing for art as well as for the state of Utah and the Church. AFTER the broadcast in Zion, the choir was taken to St. George where a sacred concert was sung. 435 Many visited the temple and made the day one long to be cherished. We listened to the choir and to President Grant and then while the rain still fell and the mists still hid the towers of Zion, we rolled out of the silent city on our way home. We felt that we had been in a holy place and could easily imagine we had heard angels sing, their voices like silver bells among the cliffs. President Grant was at his best. His magnificent voice was filling the canyon until all who were there could hear his message. The rain hampered but did not spoil the undertaking. Some day it will be repeated, for a thing as fine as that should not be allowed to become only a memory. We went to Zion poorly prepared for rain. Not content with sitting in the car, I tied a tablecloth around my head, wrapped myself in a blanket, and strolled about taking pictures. As I passed close to an auto I heard a man say to a lady in his car: "It isn't an Indian; it is only H. R. Merrill." Despite the cold, despite the rain, despite the disappointment at not being able to use our radio, it was a grand occasion for those who actually went to the canyon to worship among the cliffs. A QUILT By Ione Mohler I used to think a quilt Was just a bunch of scraps, Patterned in a casual sort of way, Padded and quilted leisurely, And spread upon a bed. Day after day. I little knew the patience It took to match the blocks, That love and faith and hope Were all required. That perseverance is a part of art And courage keeps your hands From getting tired. I used to think a quilt Was just a bunch of scraps, And Life is patterned Much the same, Perhaps. We The Audience In practically every group of Relief Society women, there is: the woman who was converted in a far away country, the woman born under the covenant, and the woman who has strayed from the fold and who has returned. 1—I AM A CONVERT AS I sit in the midst of my own Ward's Relief Society members, I suddenly become conscious that I have been added to them, like a plant that has been brought into a garden that has already been designed. I am quiet, I drink in all that is said and try to find the right place in my mind for each idea. It is like trying to put the pieces of a stained glass window together. There are many beautiful thoughts, and I know that somehow they all belong to the Gospel; but I have been learning this great, new plan of salvation for a short time only, so I am at times confused. Quietly I sit, humble because I am unable to contribute anything to the group. Then as a lesson is given my heart yearns to know a point on the subject of salvation. If I am saved no faster than I gain knowledge, I must know more. The Gospel came to me so late in my life. Many years have I lost. I must eagerly gain all I can each day. So before I stop to realize how afraid I am, I raise my hand and ask a question. Suddenly I am overwhelmed with my own daring. I am taking the time of many women who already know the answer. When the teacher calls on me I am trembling. My words tumble over themselves and don't come out in the English order. There is a puzzled look on the face of the teacher, but soon a light comes into her eyes and she says, "Do you mean this—?" and she puts my question in straight running words. My face is not hot any more and I say "Yes, yes!" eagerly, and she answers my question with kindness. I am grateful but I still feel embarrassed that I have taken the time of the class. Then a glorious thing happens! Another member adds a thought that seems to have blossomed from mine, and everyone is lifted. I am then glad that I asked my question. It maybe was The Master Gardener pruning about the roots of my soul, and the soil was cultivated for those near me as well. I am no longer lost. I belong to the class. But yet another day comes and I find myself surrounded by women who have studied the Gospel and lived it all their lives. They are telling what their religion means to them. One after another they arise and speak. Back into my own life I drift on their words, and ask myself the question "What does the Gospel mean to me?" Indeed it means so much, there are no words strong enough to tell it. I recall the day of the coming of a missionary to my home, of reading tracts, of praying for the light, and then of the coming of my testimony. The sacredness of it comes over me and burns within me. I want to share it with these women around me, but perhaps they would think me too excited over my possession of the precious truth. They are so used to it and it glows so calmly in their eyes. So I sit still, lost to my present self. My mind journeys back to the old country, and I live again all that happened after my conversion: the giv- WE THE AUDIENCE ing up of my comfortable home, being disowned by my father, and worst of all the disloyalty of my dearest friend. Why should I tell these women, who have known such peaceful lives, of my sacrifices and suffering? Then I am startled to find that someone else who was converted to the church is telling her story. I feel her exaltation, and before I realize it I am on my feet telling of the great truth I have found in this world for my salvation, As the meeting is dismissed someone presses my hand, another speaks to me and I go home with a song in my heart. Now I feel I have become a part of the Women of Zion! But there is always a space between me and the women who were born in the Gospel. They seem to have the ease of women who have always had wealth, the greatest of all wealth, the wealth of the Gospel. I am excited because I have so suddenly come into my heritage. Perhaps they are calm because their stained glass window has all been put together for them, while I am piecing mine slowly, day by day. 2—I WAS BORN UNDER THE COVENANT THERE is a certain steadiness of soul that comes to a person who is sure of his path in life. As a descendant of Utah pioneers I have a conviction of the truth of the Gospel. My parents were intelligent people, my grandparents were brave through the trials of the early days. I have absolute faith in them. I am sure they selected their religion wisely and well. A goodly heritage is the greatest boon a person can have. But I am not altogether proud. I know that in humility I must perform my 437 duties and live up to the ideal my ancestors set for me. I do not expect to live without trials; I welcome them. I know the test will come to me as it came to the pioneers but it will be a different test. I am facing a new frontier that has new terrors. I believe there are problems today as great as the Indian problem of the pioneers. There are pride and prejudice stalking about, waiting to torment me. Pride carries his tomahawk and has already threatened to mar my personality. I tell myself that pride is human, that a heart is behind his painted face. But intuitively I know that he is a savage who is restless. And he will try again and again to assault my spiritual self. How often he comes. Into my home and tries to bully me out of my faith. Prejudice is another uncivilized tempter which haunts me. He has tried to wrench from me my spiritual heritage by offering me a tempting dish of pottage—more money if I will but drop my religious scruples, more pleasure if I will but give up my church work, more honor if I will but play the game of favor. Sometimes it is difficult to resist these temptations. Sometimes when I think I am free from pride and prejudice, I turn to see their shadows upon me, as my grandmother may have seen the shadows of the Indians upon her door. I do not hear the howl of wolves as my grandmother did, but hardly a day passes without the echoes of war and crime on my horizon. At times it comes very close to me, and I too hold my baby tight. Famine is one of the terrors the pioneers faced and I know how they suffered, but I, too, have passed through a depression that forced me to go without food, to work overtime and to keep smiling. I have indeed then 438 sought the comfort of my church in greater humility. I have pressed my only whole dress, knitted a gay flower for my coat and lifted my chin a little, trying to hold the thought of pioneer courage in my heart. At Relief Society meeting I have looked around at the other women who appeared well-dressed. I have known that some of them were struggling as hard as I to keep their children from feeling the brunt of hard times. And they too were wearing the shining armor of bravery. The songs we sang gave us new strength, and we felt that if we helped each other just a little and didn't let our own feet stumble, all would be well. And ever and ever we must repeat to ourselves, "We have the Gospel, we have the Gospel!' Surely we can never let the pioneers down. They expected great things from the children they gave to the west. Not only must we keep the prairie yielding its abundance to us, but when stretches of desert appear in our lives, we must let the seeds of our faith blossom as the rose. 3—I WON MY RIGHT TO THE GOSPEL WHEN I look back upon my life, I find that two forces have ever struggled within me: the faith of my father and the doubt of my mother. As a child, at the end of each Sunday School, I would walk home alone wondering about the Bible story or the vision of Joseph Smith. One day I talked to our hired girl who was a convert from England, and I was so, overwhelmed with the power of the Gospel that I bore my testimony the following Sunday. The class laughed at me, I don't know why; perhaps my words were queer, but I thought it was because I was so serious. That laugh killed something within me RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and I decided not to believe again. At college, I was glad when the Bible was called a book of myths. I told myself I knew it all the time. I listened to friends who made fun of Joseph Smith. But in my bookcase was a Book of Mormon that no one could explain away. I believed that I could live adequately without religion. I was too busy for such concerns anyway. But my heart went back again and again to the lost comfort of it. After I finished college I began to adventure into the great religions, and found they bent toward the light I knew. I turned to the philosophers and found that from Socrates on they too were humble before the Great Directing Mind. Kant, the German idealist, suggested "All the planets have been or will be inhabited." That sounded like our own religion. Bergsen, the Frenchman, sought "an energizing principle which might make more intelligible the miracles and subtleties of life." And our own William James said "I firmly disbelieve, myself, that our human experience is the highest form of experience extant in the universe." Such findings made me eager to go back to my church and to study its principles from an adult point of view. The Relief Society was the most appealing and comfortable auxiliary so I became a member. I was extremely interested, comparing every idea advanced there with the theories I found outside. One day while looking for some material for the literary lesson I happened upon a dialogue written by Poe. It took place between a spirit that had been In heaven a long time and a new spirit that had just come from earth. The explanation of the universe given to the new spirit was identical with Brigham Young's explanation. WE THE AUDIENCE The joy of discovery made my quest for truth intriguing. Then followed other books substantiating the details of the Gospel. The great Swedish philosopher Swedenborg gave the picture of the three glories and the celestial world with the nature of angels and spirits even as Joseph Smith had done. I found that others had knocked and had truth revealed to them, the same truth that our own prophet had received. I became eager to share my findings. I was stirred by the ardor and the devotion of the members of my Relief Society, and caught in the spirit of truth, I bore my second testimony. My quest has not ended. With every new adventure into inspired books, whether they are books of literature, of philosophy or science, 439 I find a part of the Gospel of the Latter-day Saints. Only recently the great scientist Eddington said "God may be a person" and "We cannot answer in leaping electrons, tensors or mathematical equations" for the meaning of the universe, "So when we seek the meaning in consciousness we find that it is about a spirit, within which truth has its shrine." Someone has said "A religion is not yours until you have arduously won the right to it." I am thankful I doubted, otherwise I might never have found substantiating truth in far places. There is no placidity in my belief. I do not take it for granted. Day by day with further proof I shall earn the right to it. I am dedicated to the quest of truth that its rays may make the gem of my religion shine more gloriously with eternal Light. THROUGH THE YEARS By Ella J. Coulam She was so gallant in declining years— Most valiantly she walked to meet old age. Her smile stood out to halt the gathering tears That seemed to threaten her determined wage Of war, on fear and doubt and discontent. She stood upon life's hill-top looking back On dreams of service and a life well spent, With head held high, she faced the unknown track. Why should we fear, in going down the years To walk thus, as courageously as she? As slowly the glory of sun-set nears, Keep an open mind to face eternity, A sense of humor for this strange new role With a prayerful mind and a reverent soul. To the Pioneers of 1847 By C. Frank Steele (Dedicated to the late President Charles Ora Card and his Company of Utah Pioneers who Founded the first Mormon Settlement in Canada in the Summer of 1887) Behind them the pleasant valleys, Canyon torrents, and rills; Homes, joyous and flower-scented, The rhythm of shops and mills; Mild skies and the lilac mountains With a silver sea at their feet; Their friends, their kin, their prophets, Their Zion, beloved retreat! Before them the vague Tomorrow On a new and an alien soil; Northward and ever northward They press as they sing and toil. Before them a new isolation, A strange and uncharted land— Scarce a fire or a friendly furrow Greets their weary, plodding band. Yet over the trail roll their wagons As their fathers had rolled before, Strong men who loved their homeland Yet loved they duty more. North to the Land of the Blackfeet, This their appointed goal— A Camp of Israel guided By a great and Godlike soul. And the wheels of their wagons bear them To the heights of the Great Divide: On the east the rippling prairie, Hills to the westward side; And beyond the hills the mountains, Old Chief and the snow-crowned peaks Where rise the lordly rivers And the gentle, willowed creeks. They halt on the soil of Canada, Break the fruitful, virgin sod, And caught in the spell of the silences; They find the peace of God; And above them arch the heavens With their banners wide unfurled, And their eyes are bathed in the sunlight And fanned by the Winds of the World. And the promise of things to follow, Of the world that is to be, Homes, cities, a Temple holy With its gifts of eternity Gladdens the hearts of the pilgrims, And their courage never wanes As God gives a wondrous increase To their Zion of the Plains. Thus they build, they sow and harvest, And strength for each new day springs Fresh in the hearts of the exiles And their songs of praise take wings. And beyond the seas of bunch grass And the trails of the buffalo The West of the Future is calling And its destiny they know. And Peace shall abide, and plenty, No more shall their children roam; Here they shall build for Tomorrow And in love they shall make it Home. Address ADDRESS BY HON. ELBERT D. THOMAS, OF UTAH, AT THE THIRTY-SECOND INTERPARLIAMENTARY CONFERENCE IN BUDAPEST ON JULY 4, 1936 I AM asked to speak for America. This I cannot do, for under our Constitution the American people speak for themselves, and they alone can speak for America. Nor can I speak for my colleagues in the Senate of the United States, because under the rules of the Senate there is unlimited debate which implies that each Senator will speak for himself. Those rules are obeyed—quite differently from the way in which the limited debate here has been obeyed. You see, we get obedience by having no limit. We tell a Senator he may speak on to the end of the session, and in that way we get obedience! (Laughter.) I have noted in the speeches and also in the report of our secretary a spirit of discouragement concerning the affairs of the world. As students of history, if we remember the past, there is nothing in the present to be particularly discouraged about, for throughout history conditions in the world have been always, as it were, in a state of flux, and never has the ideal been found. I know of no time and of no place when and where men have lived in a state of bliss and conditions have been such that there has not been concern. Discouraged as we may be, I know of no time in the whole history of the world when so many men, women, and children were living quite so well as they are living today. That, gentlemen, is something. We have talked about the League failure. We should not talk about the League's failure or the League's success. Those are words which have no place in the growth and development of institutions. It is the League's development or the League's retrogression that we should think about. I am sure that I cannot contribute much to the great deliberations here, but I may suggest a thought, and I give it to you from my heart: The idea that nations shall meet and discuss their problems before the whole world is greater than any organization established for that purpose; the idea behind the Inter-Parliamentary Union is much greater than the union itself; the idea of the League is very much greater than the League itself; the idea behind the great American Constitution is much greater than the Constitution itself. For an American to lose faith in international cooperation would be for him to lose faith in the greatest fact of the American governmental history, for in the United States of America there are 53 separate and distinct parliamentary organizations, and 49 of them represent sovereign entities, absolute, except for powers reserved in the people, in their own spheres. It is out of these experiments, it is from these experiences that we have become what we are. We know how far the Federal idea can go. We know the bounds in which the whole may speak and the curbs it may place on any one of its parts. The theory behind that which international organization now calls a sanction we placed in our Federal Constitution. We know both its strength and its weakness. From our experience we know how far to go and when to stop. The American Federal Govern- 442 ment guaranteed in our Constitution a republican form of government in every one of the various States, but never once has the Federal Government attempted to do anything about it. Why? Because we knew, from the very experiences which we underwent when we organized and wrote our Constitution, that once an attempt were made to coerce a State, the Union itself might be destroyed. I BELIEVE I have caught the spirit of the delegates here; I do not know whether I can reflect it, but if so I should like to in what I shall now say. Mr. Rockefeller has restored great monuments at Versailles. Are the French people whom the present French Republic today comprises resentful that a monument which represented a theory of government no longer prevailing and contrary to present theory is to be made to live in stone? No; because they see something more vital than the theory, something finer than the past it represents. France does not wish to return to that past, but she may cherish the beauty it produced. There is no compromise there. That which is good she preserves. That which is bad had no place in the restoration. Her pride is not touched that an American contributes to a perpetuation of the beauty of her past. France does not resent that the world rejoices with her in this monument to her culture. If the world can unite in appreciation of beauty, it may unite in appreciation of other accomplishments. That desire of nations is with us today, for as I turn from one delegation to another I am reminded of the spirits of their pasts. First, as I face the Greek delegation, my thoughts turn to ancient Greece and I remember what RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Sophocles caused his Antigone to say, "It is easy to join for hate and for evil-doing, but it is hard to join for love and for peace." Is that not our struggle today? Inspired by the presence of our Japanese friends I select a Hokku poem which, it seems to me, reflects the idea and the spirit of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. The poem gives us this picture: There are many roads that lead to the top of the mountain, But when once the summit is gained the same moon is seen. Speech after speech from far-off corners of countries represented here reflect the Japanese poet's dream, no dream to us who have climbed the mountain! The moon and the ideal it represents are ours! I fancy a picture of the striving of nations, I can feel the spirit of those nations, and I note that there has been expressed here, time and time again, in very deed, the long-prayed-for "desire of nations." Whether that desire will be fulfilled or not depends upon the way in which the people of the world accept the responsibilities of the present day. Shall we act like the ancient Hebrews who patted themselves on the chest and were proud, and claimed they were the chosen people of the Lord, or shall we be like the thoughtful of those ancients who realized that only those were entitled to be called God's chosen people who first of all chose to be God's chosen ones? We can behold the moon of world unity only if we climb the road that leads to the summit. We can be that which we seek to be only by striving in harmony with the fulfilled purposes of our hoped-for ends. If good will is to come to us, we must reflect good will. If the world is to be made a place of peace, we must learn and must live the way of peace. Music Department By Professor Frank W. Asper IN ORDER to make something of our music, the most necessary requirement is that the instruments have the best of care and are kept in good condition. With our pianos the following points should be observed: Extreme care should be used to keep them covered as much as possible so that the dirt will not get inside the case. Moths always congregate where there is dirt and it is possible for the moth to completely destroy the felt and hammers used on pianos, They should also be made inaccessible to mice. A piano should never be placed against an outside wall but should be inside the room in order to guard against extreme changes in temperature—the ideal way would be to keep the room at a constant temperature. Then too, it will be found that there will not be so much dampness against the inside wall as against the outside. Our houses and auditoriums are all very dry, and this is especially true during the winter when there is very little humidity in the air, and makes the likelihood of the wood cracking very great, and for this reason it is very often advisable to keep one or two plants very close to the piano. The evaporation from the leaves of the plants will keep the air sufficiently moist to avoid any trouble in this way. To keep them in a damp basement is also bad for them. Avoid drafts as this will tend to check the wood and will cause undue expansion and contraction in the piano wires. The piano wires are very delicately strung. Until the last few years the wires were attached to pins which were cylindrical in shape and driven in the pin-block and if the wood was not of the proper kind or grain or seasoning, they would slip. There are many of these old pianos now and it is almost impossible to keep them in tune as there is nothing to stop the tuning pin from turning. In our more modern pianos, however, the tuning pins are tapered, thus enabling the one who takes care of the instrument to drive them further into the wood and in this way hold the piano up to pitch. A PIANO should be tuned twice a year, if possible in the spring and fall and usually at the same pitch as the building is heated, generally about seventy-two degrees. If you are particular about your instrument you will insist that they are always tuned to A-440 or C-523.25. During the course of the year, due to the terrific strain on the wires, a piano will drop one or two vibrations. If they are not pulled up to pitch at least once a year, it is only a matter of a short time until they will be so low that it will be impossible for any other instrument to play in tune with them, and any attempt a tuner might make to bring it back to pitch will result in broken wires, sheared tuning pins and possibly a split pin-block. NOTHING is so repulsive as playing on a piano if sweaty or dirty fingers have been over it. The keys should be wiped off with wood alcohol, but always use the utmost care not to allow any of it to get on the finish or it will turn it white. In polishing the case, the best method is to use castile or Ivory soap in warm water. Dip a piece of soft 444 cheese cloth in warm suds and wring it out, then wipe with a moistened cloth. After this wipe with a dry piece of cheese cloth. The many kinds of polish are also quite satisfactory, as well as the better brands of furniture wax, providing they are rubbed off as much as possible. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE All of these suggestions as to temperature, etc., are applicable to the reed organ as well. In addition the performer should always take care that the stops are pushed in when not in use. This will avoid any difficulty that might be encountered with dust entering the wind chest. ELIZA L. S. UDALL THE GREAT DIVIDE By Bertha A. Kleinman In Memoriam for Sister Eliza L. S. Udall Sister Eliza L. S. Udall was noted for her pioneering activities in Arizona, for her kindness to the Mexicans and for her hospitality. Most of the Church leaders have been entertained by her and her husband who for so many. Years presided over the St. John's Stake. She served for thirty-five years as Relief Society President of that Stake. She was the first matron of the Mesa Temple.—Editor. The day is done and through the Sunset Gates Another bark glides swiftly out to sea, In prime and loveliness the flower fades And darkness shuts the brave eyes tenderly. ELIZA L. S, UDALL 445 But yesterday so gladsome and alive, With kindly word and smile and cheer for all— Her day replete—why need she linger on? The day is done, she heeds the Master's Call. We cannot know the meaning of it all, Why some must go and some of us remain, Except that she so treasured and beloved Is needed, too, and loved in God's Domain. We cannot know the meaning of the storm Why bough and branch must bow before the blast, But this we know—the rugged cliffs take form And stand serene when every storm is past. And this we know and this we cannot doubt That, somewhere in the glory of His scheme, No pang is wasted and no heartache lost, Nor tears unheeded in His blest regime. Beyond the mystic "Parting of the ways" Her lovely soul has taken wings and gone, And unto us is left the lonely days, The span of waiting and the carry-on. Somewhere God yearns for spotless souls like hers To grace the beauty of His Gardens there, Where none of all the millions of the earth Can fill the place He calls for her to share. A little ways, a little time to wait, Then in the dawn beyond the Great Divide Her loved ones too shall follow where she leads And all within His Love be satisfied. APPRAISAL By Alberta H. Christensen I shall not care what they at last may say Who caught my voice, in passing touched my hand. They merely glimpsed an hour of the way Of years; how could they ever understand The integer, who only chanced upon The fraction imprint in the leeward snow? And they who saw my lip in smile attired,— How could they know 'twas not a guise I wore, Shielding with pride some cankerous hurt I bore? What could they know—who saw me stumbling, fall— Of granite heights to which my step aspired? But you—who long have known my every mood— Your weighing flawless, and your verdict true—, Oh I shall never care what they may say; Only beloved, what can be said by you. Notes To The Field Theology Department "Theology is ordered knowledge, representing in the intellect what religion represents in the heart and life of man." THE ministry of the Savior will be the continued subject for 1937-38. The truths embraced therein will undoubtedly be studied with interest and zeal, for in the past year an increase in attendance, and satisfactory progress in the study of the scriptures has been noted. The attention of the class leaders is called to the paragraph preceding lesson 1 in regard to listed references. The Latter-day Saint scriptures (those starred,) together with the lessons themselves afford sufficient material and proof of all statements made, and unless the other books are not easily available, as stated, it is not necessary to acquire them. As believers in the divinity of the mission of the prophet Joseph Smith, it is a satisfaction to have the light of knowledge through revelation of the word of the Lord on these subjects—the time of the Savior's birth, The miracle of His birth, The place of His baptism and His divine power; questions so much discussed and pondered over by the learned theologians of the world without agreement or positive answer. The Doctrine and Covenants, which is direct revelation and the Book of Mormon, translated through the power of God, give definite and clear statements on these matters and will certainly tend to strengthen the testimonies which will follow the discussion of the lesson. There is no reading in all literature that so enriches the mind and understanding and at the same time yields such a field for thought and conjecture as the scriptures; almost every verse is a poem, every episode a drama and all combined an inspiration for the higher and truer attainments of life. May this year's work be a joy and development to the souls of all our members, and a strengthening of their faith and testimonies. Literary Department IT has been suggested that Pale Moon and The Indian Love Call would be very delightful musical numbers to be used during the study of The Star of the West. The following is a quotation from a letter of Mrs. Ethel Hueston, the author of The Star of the West. It is an interesting side light on the book, which gives one the feeling of reading real history in the delightful narrative. "The Library of Congress loaned me copies of the Original Journals of Lewis and Clark, and I carried them with me on a motor trip following their trail from St. Louis, up the Missouri River and across the mountains to the Pacific, visiting as many of their points of interest as could be located. I can assure you that my account is entirely authentic, using their daily diaries as a base. When the weather is mentioned, the weather is as they recorded it. My account was really a novelized version of their journals, instead of an historical romance. I introduced not one fictional character. I only supplied detail and conversation, but every incident recorded was included in their journals; in brief, terse form of course. "One thing that was clearly indi- NOTES TO THE FIELD cated in their Journals seems to me should be particularly stressed to young students; the effect of discipline. You will observe that all the infractions of rules and orders occurred in that first year, between St. Louis and Mandan. There was disobedience, absence without leave, desertion, theft, incipient rebellions. Every case was dealt with, by a committee of the men; sentences were agreed upon, and justice administered. And the discipline proved its point; after Mandan there was not one other case of trouble with the men. Rules were established, and they were obeyed. The men were loyal, obedient, and zealous; the leaders were careful, considerate and just." SOCIAL SERVICE DEPT. A CALL to arms is heralded to the members of the Church. "Church-wide Beautification of our Places of Worship." Here is another opportunity for the application of our social service Lessons in Civic Sociology. The keynote of success in this project is loyal cooperation of every member of the family. That the Relief Societies have long since been standard bearers and pace setters in the beautification program is evidenced by the lovely rooms you have furnished in your various wards. Many Relief Society rooms are covered with carpet, the walls and woodwork decorated in appropriate colors, harmonious 447 drapes and suitable furniture give an atmosphere of peace and rest to all who enter your rooms. The hours of unselfish though weary toil are forgotten in the pride and heartfelt satisfaction you feel when you see what you have accomplished. That you will not fail to cooperate in every way possible to extend your improvement program to every nook and corner of your Church inside and to the grounds surrounding it is self evident, because you have never failed in loyally supporting any movement for the beautification of our Church. Among the many needs of the Church is efficient janitorial service, care of sacrament service, improved sanitation, screened windows, comfortable seating, carpeted isles or entire floors, pride in class rooms, more trees, shrubs and flowers, walks, and fences. When the bishop calls for your suggestions concerning these problems we hope this little message will have given you an opportunity to have been thinking about the matter and find you well prepared to help where you are most needed. ERRATUM IN publishing the prices of the books for our Literary course next year on page 395 of the June issue a line was dropped. By turning to the advertising section in the front of the book the Deseret Book Company gives the correct price list. Notes From The Field Julia A, F, Lund—General Secretary Malad Stake. FROM the Malad Stake comes the following comprehensive report of the activities of 1936-37. We certainly congratulate Sister Nellie K. Dredge, the President. It is difficult to see a phase of activity which this enterprising Stake has not conducted. In August of 1936 the Stake Board sponsored a pre-school clinic. The cooperation of the doctors and dentists with Relief Society was most complete. The mothers of the community had been brought to realize the importance of having the children examined and the corrective work done. The class leaders' and visiting teachers' convention held in September was a most successful event. The following is a copy of the material on the card which was given to each visiting teacher: "To be dependable. To make prayerful preparation of my work. To deliver my message. To speak no ill.. To be a mother in my district. To live worthy of my calling. To attend all my Relief Society and Visiting Teachers' meetings. To take sunshine into the homes I visit. To look for something beautiful in every home. To have tact and kindliness above all else. Seek self-development daily, through the spirit of God, in exercising all spiritual and material resources." In September also the Relief Society joined with the Y. W. M. I. A. In conducting a county fair and a most beautiful flower show. The sisters from the entire Stake brought flowers of different kinds. The event was most successful. In December the Stake Board prepared lunch and program and went to the Washakie Ward, where a very fine social was held with the Lamanite sisters. These sisters took part in the program of songs and games and in every way indicated their ability to cooperate in Relief Society work. The theme "Why we have a Work and Business meeting" was the subject for the Relief Society Conference. The Lamanite sisters made three beautiful quilts, the patterns and quilting and every phase of the work was done as beautifully as could be. There were also embroidered pillow cases, luncheon sets, and real buckskin gloves beautifully beaded. There were also many other lovely articles of a similar nature. The canned fruit made by the Washakie sisters was just as beautifully done as any in the Stake. So much of the credit for the fine work accomplished by the Lamanite sisters belongs to their President, Sister Margaret Parry, whose patience and persistence have produced beautiful results. The Stake Board and the local Relief Societies assisted the Old Folks Committee in their entertainment in February. A hot dinner was served to about four hundred by the Relief Society sisters. This was followed by a lovely program. On March 17 the Stake Board outlined a uniform program for the celebration of Anniversary Day, and the event was carried out in exquisite detail in all the wards. To stimulate enrollment and average attendance the Daughters Day program was observed. The majority of Relief Society membership attended the Temple NOTES FROM THE FIELD Mission which was sponsored in the Logan Temple in May of this year. A ladies' chorus of Relief Society members sang the selections and the Relief Society Stake President spoke during the meeting. The Scriptural Project has been taken up with great enthusiasm and many of the members have completed the reading of the Bible and memorized the names of the books. In concluding her report Sister Cecelia D. Rutter, the Secretary, writes, "Each year we aim to make a change in reference to our program for Relief Society Conference. One year we took Theology as the subject, then Literature. This year we took Work and Business, and asked each ward to bring in the quilts SAN BERNARDINO WARD RELIEF or other articles that had been made, so that at the Stake Conference, held on Sunday evening, there was a beautiful display. The Conferences have been held and successfully carried out. The songs and talks all coincided with the theme, and the spirit of each Conference was beautiful. 449 "It is marvelous how well and how beautifully the sisters have cooperated in contributing toward the Church Security Program. Shelves and shelves of lovely fruit of every variety have been conserved, and twenty-six serviceable quilts made, men's and women's clothing of various kinds, and dozens of pairs of wearable shoes and household articles have been contributed through the Relief Society to the Security work, "Our chief aim has been as a Stake Board to cooperate with the Priesthood, and to the very best of our ability carry out the details and advice and timely instructions which the General Board have sent to us." SOCIETY: San Bernardino Stake FROM one of our younger Stakes the above picture is sent. We were very happy to have this from San Bernardino. This picture was taken at the recent celebration of the anniversary of the founding of Relief Society. The script was written by Sister Roxana F. Hase in honor 450 of the seven General Presidents of the Relief Society. Those who impersonated the General Presidents were all either active or past presidents in Relief Society work. While some of our Stakes may. Be young in point of organization, they all have the spirit of Relief Society work, and we are most happy to hear from them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mission, and others write, 'We all feel that the Relief Society Magazine is indispensable to us. The wonderful material which it contains is of great help to us, and we want to tell you how much we appreciate it." Tongan Mission FROM far-away Tonga a very delightful letter came from Sister HAMILTON, MONTANA, RELIEF SOCIETY Northwestern States Mission THE office was very happy to receive the above picture from Sister Helen Jorgensen, Supervisor of the Mission Relief Societies. It is of the Hamilton Relief Society in the Montana District. According to reports from the Mission's office, this is one of the most enthusiastic organizations among the members. It is well organized and demonstrates upon all occasions a very fine spirit of cooperation. The activities and lesson program are successfully conducted. The picture was taken upon the occasion of their annual celebration for the Anniversary Day. This Evelyn H. Dunn. The picture on the opposite page is of the Haapai District. Sister Dunn has this to say of her organization: "The sisters are faithful in doing all that is asked of them, and I am sure they enjoy the work. We have just finished a very successful conference in each of the districts and the Relief Society sessions were enjoyed by all the Saints. "We experienced a bad hurricane in the Togatabu district in February, but no one was injured, The Saints seem to be able to have plenty of food, even though their crops were badly damaged. The work of the Relief Society, in helping the NOTES FROM THE FIELD 451 TONGAN MISSION poor and unfortunate is just a continuation of the old native customs, and I am sure there will be no one in want of food and clothing as long as others of the Saints have any. They are very wonderful to help one another and scarcely ever ask for money from the Relief Society to do it with. I am sure they are blessed for their goodness." TO UTAH By Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy For you, O Sunshine State, the hardy pioneers Poured precious blood and strewed along the trail, white bones To mingle with those of buffalo! And hot tears Of lonely wife oft wet a pile of cold grey stones; But when the wagon train moved on, with lifted head, And confidence in God, she turned toward setting sun, Determined fertile vales to till. Though he was dead— She went ever on, and by her side their son. Now golden wheat fields wave where once was only sage; No more does blood of hero saint stain red the trail: No savage demons over peaceful prairies rage; Nor Renegades burn wagon trains and rob the mail. God give to Utah and her faithful children, peace And courage to continue building, down the years; From everything that binds our faith give just release, Oh Blessed Father of the sons of pioneers. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON President AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor KATE M. BARKER Second Counselor JULIA A, F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Jennie B. Knight Elise B. Alder Belle S. Spafford Emma A. Empey Inez K. Allen Donna Durrant Sorensen Annie Wells Cannon Ida P. Beal Vivian R. McConkie Lalene H. Hart Marcia K. Howells Leda T. Jensen Cora L. Bennion Emeline Y. Nebeker Beatrice F. Stevens Amy Whipple Evans Mary Connelly Kimball Rae B. Barker Rosannah C, Irvine' Janet M. Thompson Nellie O. Parker Nettie D. Bradford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Mary Connelly Kimball Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Vol. XXIV JULY, 1937. No. 7 Editorials Difficulties With the coming of July 24 we think of that sturdy band who pioneered the West and of the hardships they endured. We pity them that they went through such trying experiences, but hardships are not wholly undesirable. Through overcoming difficulties there comes a courage and fortitude that makes for the strongest character. Facing difficulties brings strength that an easy life never develops. Pioneering brings out latent resourcefulness. It makes for brotherhood. Each feels the other's difficulties and tries to lighten the burden. All share in the joy that comes. Many people have been dwarfed, the best in them never developed because they have been shielded from every hard thing. Hendrix Willem Van Loon, noted historian, said at the National Education Association convention in New Orleans: "During the last three generations we have done nothing but give in to our children. We gave them schools that were far too good for them. We deprived them of all trouble and made learning as easy and pleasant and painless as going fishing. "We told them there were nice little jobs awaiting them just around the corner with a nice wife and a mink coat and a nice house and a nice mortgage, nicely handled by a nice bank. "As long as America had stood for hardships, for pioneering, for fighting one's way through the wilderness —as long as there had been adventure and uncertainty in the American scheme of things—we had a definite and concrete American philosophy of life and nobody dreamed of importing from abroad what we could so infinitely better right here at home." Isn't there a great deal in this arraignment? Are we not all shielding children too much from difficulty and trying to make everything so easy that they do not develop the strength, sturdiness, fortitude, that meeting EDITORIALS hard tasks gave to their parents? Much as mothers realize the strength that comes from battle, the fortitude that results from overcoming difficulties, yet they ever seek to shield their children and make life as easy as possible for them. Fortunately they are not able to wholly do this, otherwise their children would be very much weaker than they now are. Psychologists are telling us that we should all do something we don't want to do every day, that we should attempt difficult tasks for the strength that will result. It is well known that the furnace fires free the metal from the dross, and so it is no wonder that the Pioneers developed such strong characters. They had to face difficulties! They had to develop their ingenuity; they had to stand together, helping each other to overcome difficulties and to bring victory out of seeming defeat. Art Of all the notifications that our Magazines have failed to reach their destination we think the loveliest message we have received was written by Rose M. Hardy. She said: "Dear Relief Society Magazine. For some reason you have failed to greet me with your messages of love 453 and cheer this month. Needless to tell you how lost I am without you, especially when I have to present the lesson in the Theology Department. You know how much I need you, so please get here as soon as you can. Affectionately." It's an art to be able to do things in such a sweet way as this. Magazine To Be Larger WE are glad to announce that henceforth our Magazine will be increased four pages in each issue. This will give us seventy or more pages of reading matter, according to the number of ads carried in each number. This is quite a growth from the size of the first issue, which had forty-four pages of reading matter. SAGE SONG By Martha Ball I love to stand on yonder hill And gaze out o'er the great expanse Of purple, tufted, scented, sage, After the storm, after the dance— After the dance of the sparkling rain, Whose tiny feet spread sweet perfume On every tuft of silver sage, On every quivering virgin plume. I stand alone on yonder hill, A soul bereft of a home-spun age. Seeking sweet peace in the solitude, Finding release in the primitive sage. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Lesson I Some Mormon Contributions To An Understanding Of The Life And Teachings Of Christ IN this and the following lessons there are pointed out a number of distinctive Mormon contributions to Christ's life and work. In many respects the point of view of the Latter-day Saints is entirely different from that of the world. Those who desire to further pursue their studies as here indicated, and who have library facilities, may do so by comparing points of view expressed in the following list of books. The starred books are Mormon publications. Smith—*Gospel Doctrine. Smith—*The Way To Perfection. Talmage—*Jesus The Christ. Talmage—*The Articles of Faith. Gray—Critical Introduction to the Old Testament. McFadyen—Introduction To The Old Testament. Scott—Literature of The New Testament. Dana—New Testament Criticism. Klausner—Jesus of Nazareth. Case—Experience With The Supernatural In Early Christian Times. 1. The Time of Christ's Birth — Many scholars have attempted to determine precisely the date of Christ's birth. However, we shall not here presume to point out the various lines of reasoning and methods used by those who have sought to fix this important mile post in world history. Suffice it to say that very able scholars disagree upon the year of our Savior's birth. The results range all the way from B. C. 1 to B. C. 9 with B. C. 4 being in all probability the most acceptable mean date. Dr. Joseph Klausner in his book, Jesus of Nazareth, is of the opinion that Jesus "was born in the reign of Augustus two to four years before the Christian era." Now two of our modern scriptures enable Latter-day Saints to more precisely point out the time of our Lord's birth. The Book of Mormon has several helpful references. Nephi definitely shows that "even six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem, a prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews—even a Messiah, or in other words, a Savior of the world." (1 Nephi 10:4; compare 1 Nephi 19:8; 2 Nephi 25:19.) The Nephite scripture records the fact that Lehi and his family were commanded by the Lord to leave Jerusalem "in the commencement of the first year of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah." (1 Nephi 1:4, 2:2-4.) Zedekiah's reign must have commenced, therefore, about three years earlier than ordinarily supposed. The fulfilment of the Nephite prophets' predictions are recorded in 3 Nephi 1:1-21. One should read also in this connection the prophecy of Samuel, the Lamanite. (Helaman 14:2-7.) The Nephite people were given a marvelous sign of Christ's birth which occurred according to our reckoning in the year B. C. 1. The Doctrine and Covenants (20:1) seems to point out even the day of Christ's birth. "The rise of the Church of Christ in these last days, being one thousand eight hundred and thirty years since the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in the flesh, it being regularly organized and established agreeable to the laws of our country, by the will and commandments of God, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April." The exact date of Christ's birth is thus set on April 6, B. C. 1. Some people may feel this contribution to be of little importance. We feel that any contribution made to our knowledge of the Christ is of value. The consecrated labors of thousands of scholars are a testimony to that opinion. 2. The Problem of the Virgin Birth—In times past comparatively few people doubted the simple straightforward stories of the birth of Christ as related in the gospels of Matthew and Luke. While there have been those through the centuries who have been doubters, it is within comparatively recent times that the scepticism has become so pronounced. From some recent books on early Christian history one would almost glean the idea that the Palestinian of Christ's day, indeed most of the peoples of the Mediterranean world, were living in a fool's paradise of supernaturalism. Examples are cited from the literature paralleling practically every miracle mentioned in the New Testament, including Christ's miraculous birth. The conclusion we are supposed to draw is that
northward They press as they sing and toil. Before them a new isolation, A strange and uncharted land— Scarce a fire or a friendly furrow Greets their weary, plodding band. Yet over the trail roll their wagons As their fathers had rolled before, Strong men who loved their homeland Yet loved they duty more. North to the Land of the Blackfeet, This their appointed goal— A Camp of Israel guided By a great and Godlike soul. And the wheels of their wagons bear them To the heights of the Great Divide: On the east the rippling prairie, Hills to the westward side; And beyond the hills the mountains, on Old Chief and the snow-crowned peaks Where rise the lordly rivers And the gentle, willowed creeks. They halt on the soil of Canada, Break the fruitful, virgin sod, And caught in the spell of the silences; They find the peace of God; And above them arch the heavens With their banners wide unfurled, And their eyes are bathed in the sunlight And fanned by the Winds of the World. And the promise of things to follow, Of the world that is to be, Homes, cities, a Temple holy With its gifts of eternity Gladdens the hearts of the pilgrims, And their courage never wanes As God gives a wondrous increase To their Zion of the Plains. Thus they build, they sow and harvest, And strength for each new day springs Fresh in the hearts of the exiles And their songs of praise take wings. And beyond the seas of bunch grass And the trails of the buffalo The West of the Future is calling And its destiny they know. And Peace shall abide, and plenty, No more shall their children roam; Here they shall build for Tomorrow And in love they shall make it Home. ~O Address ADDRESS BY HON. ELBERT 'D. THOMAS, OF UTAH, AT THE THIRTY-SECOND _ INTERPARLIAMENTARY CONFERENCE IN BUDAPEST ON JULY 4, 1936 AM asked to speak for America. This I cannot do, for under our Constitution the American people speak for themselves, and they alone can speak for America. Nor can I speak for my colleagues in the Senate of the United States, because under the rules of the Senate there is unlimited debate which implies that each Senator will speak for himself. Those rules are obeyed—quite differently from the way in which the limited debate here has been obeyed. You see, we get obedience by having no limit. We tell a Senator he may speak on to the end of the session, and in that way we get obedience! (Laughter.) I have noted in the speeches and also in the report of our secretary a spirit of discouragement concerning the affairs of the world. As students of history, if we remember the past, there is nothing in the present to be particularly discouraged about, for throughout history conditions in the world have been always, as it were, in a state of flux, and never has the ideal been found. I know of no time and of no place when and where men have lived in a state of bliss and conditions have been such that there has not been concern. Discouraged as we may be, I know of no time in the whole history of the world when so many men, women, and children were living quite so well as they are living today. That, gentlemen, is something. We have talked about the League failure. We should not talk about the League's failure or the League's success. Those are words which have no place in the growth and development of institutions. It is the League's development or the League's retrogression that we should think about. Iam sure that I cannot contribute much to the great deliberations here, but I may suggest a thought, and I give it to you from my heart: The idea that nations shall meet and discuss their problems before the whole world is greater than any organization established for that purpose; the idea behind the Inter-Parliamentary Union is much greater than the union itself; the idea of the League is very much greater than the League itself; the idea behind the great American Constitution is much greater than the Constitution itself. For an American to lose faith in international cooperation would be for him to lose faith in the greatest fact of the American governmental history, for in the United States of America there are 53 separate and distinct parliamentary organizations, and 49 of them represent sovereign entities, absolute, except for powers reserved in the people, in their own spheres. It is out of these experiments, it is from these experiences that we have become what we are. We know how far the Federal idea can go. We know the bounds in which the whole may speak and the curbs it may place on any one of its parts. The theory behind that which international organization now calls a sanction we placed in our Federal Constitution. We know both its strength and its weakness. From our experience we know how far to go and when to stop. The American Federal Govern- 442 ment guaranteed in our Constitution a republican form of government in every one of the various States, but never once has the Federal Government attempted to do anything about it. Why? Because we knew, from the very experiences which we underwent when we organized and wrote our Constitution, that once an attempt were made to coerce a State, the Union itself might be destroyed. BELIEVE I have caught the spirit of the delegates here; I do not know whether I can reflect it, but if so I should like to in what I shall now say. Mr. Rockefeller has restored great monuments at Versailles. Are the French people whom the present French Republic today comprises resentful that a monument which represented a theory of government no longer prevailing and contrary to present theory is to be made to live in stone? No; because they see something more vital than the theory, something finer than the past it represents. France does not wish to return to that past, but she may cherish the beauty it produced. There is no compromise there. That which is good she preserves. That which is bad had no place in the restoration. Her pride is not touched that an American contributes to a perpetuation of the beauty of her past. France does not resent that the world rejoices with her in this monument to her culture. If the world can unite in appreciation of beauty, it may unite in appreciation of other accomplishments. That desire of nations is with us today, for as I turn from one delegation to another I am reminded of the spirits of their pasts. First, as I face the Greek delegation, my thoughts turn to ancient Greece and I remember what RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Sophocles caused his Antigone to say, "It is easy to join for hate and for evil-doing, but it is hard to join for love and for peace." Is that not our struggle today? Inspired by the presence of our Japanese friends I select a Hokku poem which, it seems to me, reflects the idea and the spirit of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. The poem gives us this picture: There are many roads that lead to the top of the mountain, But when once the summit is gained the same moon is seen. Speech after speech from far-off corners of countries represented here reflect the Japanese poet's dream, no dream to us who have climbed the mountain! The moon and the ideal it represents are ours! I fancy a picture of the striving of nations, I can feel the spirit of those nations, and I note that there has been expressed here, time and time again, in very deed, the long-prayedfor "desire of nations." Whether that desire will be fulfilled or not depends upon the way in which the people of the world accept the responsibilities of the present day. Shall we act like the ancient Hebrews who patted themselves on the chest and were proud, and claimed they were the chosen people of the Lord, or shall we be like the thoughtful of those ancients who realized that only those were entitled to be called God's chosen people who first of all chose to be God's chosen ones? We can behold the moon of world unity only if we climb the road that leads to the summit. We can be that which we seek to be only by striving in harmony with the fulfilled purposes of our hoped-for ends. If good will is to come to us, we must reflect good will. If the world is to be made a place of peace, we must learn and must live the way of peace. Music Department By Professor Frank W. Asper of our music, the most necessary requirement is that the instruments have the best of care and are kept in good condition. With our pianos the following points should be observed: Extreme care should be used to keep them covered as much as possible so that the dirt will not get inside the case. Moths always congregate where there is dirt and it is possible for the moth to completely destroy the felt and hammers used on pianos, They should also be made inaccessible to mice. A piano should never be placed against an outside wall but should be inside the room in order to guard against extreme changes in teniperature—the ideal way would be to keep the room at a constant temperature. Then too, it will be found that there will not be so much dampness against the inside wall as against the outside. Our houses and auditoriums are all very dry, and this is especially true during the winter when there is very little humidity in the air, and makes the likelihood of the wood cracking very great, and for this reason it is very often advisable to keep one or two plants very close to the piano. The evaporation from the leaves cf the plants will keep the air sufficiently moist to avoid any trouble in this way. To keep them in a damp basement is also bad for them. Avoid drafts as this will tend to check the wood and will cause undue expansion and contraction in the piano wires. The piano wires are very delicately strung. Until the last few years the wires were attached to pins which I N ORDER to make something were cylindrical in shape and driven in the pin-block and if the wood was not of the proper kind or grain or seasoning, they would slip. There are many of these old pianos now and it is almost impossible to keep them in tune as there is nothing to stop the tuning pin from turning. In our more modern pianos, however, the tuning pins are tapered, thus enabling the one who takes care of the instrument to drive them further into the wood and in this way hold the piano up to pitch. PIANO should be tuned twice a year, if possible in the spring and fall and usually at the same pitch as the building is heated, generally about seventy-two degrees. If you are particular about your instrument you will insist that they are always tuned to A-440 or C-523.25. During the course of the year, due to the terrific strain on the wires, a piano will drop one or two vibrations. If they are not pulled up to pitch at least ofice a year, it is only a matter of a short time until they will be so low that it will be impossible for any other instrument to play in tune with them, and any attempt a tuner might make to bring it back to pitch will result in broken wires, sheared tuning pins and possibly a split pin-block. NOTHING is so repulsive as playing on a piano if sweaty or dirty fingers have been over it. The keys should be wiped off with wood alcohol, but always use the utmost care not to allow any of it to get on the finish or it will turn it white. In polishing the case, the best method is to use castile or Ivory soap in warm water. Dip a piece of soft 444 cheese cloth in warm suds and wring it out, then wipe with a moistened cloth. After this wipe with a dry piece of cheese cloth. The many kinds of polish are also quite satisfactory, as well as the better brands of furniture wax, providing they are rubbed off as much as possible. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE All of these suggestions as to temperature, etc., are applicable to the reed organ as well. In addition the 'performer should always take care that the stops are pushed in when not in use. This will avoid any difficulty that might be encountered with dust entering the wind chest. ELIZA L. §. UDALL THE GREAT DIVIDE By Bertha A. Kleinman In Memoriam for Sister Eliza L. S. Udall Sister Eliza L. S. Udall was noted or her pioneering activities in Arizona, for her kindness to the Mexicans and for her hospitality. Most of the Church leaders have been entertained by her and her husband who for so many. Years presided over the St. John's Stake. She served for thirty-five years as Relief Society Presient of that Stake. She was the first matron of the Mesa Temple.—Editor. The day is done and through the Sunset Gates Another bark glides swiftly out to sea, In prime and loveliness the flower fades And darkness shuts the brave eyes tenderly. ELIZA L. S, UDALL 445 But yesterday so gladsome and alive, With kindly word and smile and cheer for all— Her day replete—why need she linger on? The day is done, she heeds the Master's Call. We cannot know the meaning of it all, Why some must go and some of us remain, Except that she so treasured and beloved Is needed, too, and loved in God's Domain. We cannot know the meaning of the storm Why bough and branch must bow before the blast, But this we know—the rugged cliffs take form And stand serene when every storm is past. And this we know and this we cannot doubt That, somewhere in the glory of His scheme, No pang is wasted and no heartache lost, Nor tears unheeded in His blest regime. Beyond the mystic "Parting of the ways" Her lovely soul has taken wings and gone, And unto us is left the lonely days, The span of waiting and the carry-on. Somewhere God yearns for spotless souls like hers To grace the beauty of His Gardens there, Where none of all the millions of the earth Can fill the place He calls for her to share. A little ways, a little time to wait, Then in the dawn beyond the Great Divide Her loved ones too shall follow where she leads And all within His Love be satisfied. APPRAISAL By Alberta H. Christensen I shall not care what they at last may say Who caught my voice, in passing touched my hand. They merely glimpsed an hour of the way Of years; how could they ever understand The integer, who only chanced upon The fraction imprint in the leeward snow? And they who saw my lip in smile attired,— How could they know 'twas not a guise I wore, Shielding with pride some cankerous hurt I bore? What could they know—who saw me stumbling, fall— Of granite heights to which my step aspired? But you—who long have known my every mood— Your weighing flawless, and your verdict true—, Oh I shall never care what they may say; Only beloved, what can be said by you. Notes To Theology Department "Theology is ordered knowledge, representing in the intellect what religion represents in the heart and life of man." "THE ministry of the Savior will be the continued subject for 1937-38. The truths embraced therein will undoubtedly be studied with interest and zeal, for in the past year an increase in attendance, and satisfactory progress in the study of the scriptures has been noted. The attention of the class leaders is called to the paragraph preceding lesson 1 in regard to listed references. The Latter-day Saint scriptures (those starred,) together with the lessons themselves afford sufficient material and prooi of all statements made, and unless the other books are not easily available, as stated, it is not necessary to acquire them. As believers in the divinity of the mission of the prophet Joseph Smith, it is a satisfaction to have the light of knowledge through revelation of the word of the Lord on these subjects—the time of the Savior's birth, The miracle of His birth, The place of His baptism and His divine power; questions so much discussed and pondered over by the learned theologians of the world without agreement or positive answer. The Doctrine and Covenants, which is direct revelation and the Book of Mormon, translated through the power of God, give definite and clear statements on these matters and will certainly tend to strengthen the testimonies which will follow the discussion of the lesson. There is no reading in all literature that so enriches the mind and The Field understanding and at the same time yields such a field for thought and conjecture as the scriptures; almost every verse is a poem, every episode a drama and all combined an inspiration for the higher and truer attainments of life. May this year's work be a joy and development to the souls of all our members, and a strengthening of their faith and testimonies. Literary Department T has been suggested that Pale Moon and The Indian Love Call would be very delightful musical ° numbers to be used during the study of The Star of the West. The following is a quotation from a letter of Mrs. Ethel Hueston, the author of The Star of the West. It is an interesting side light on the book, which gives one the feeling of reading real history in the delightful narrative. "The Library of Congress loaned me copies of the Original Journals of Lewis and Clark, and I carried them with me on a motor trip following their trail from St. Louis, up the Missouri River and across the mountains to the Pacific, visiting as many of their points of interest as could be located. I can assure you that my account is entirely authentic, using their daily diaries as a base. When the weather is mentioned, the weather is as they recorded it. My account was really a novelized version of their journals, instead of an historical romance. I introduced not one fictional character. I only supplied detail and conversation, but every incident recorded was included in their journals; in brief, terse form of course. "One thing that was clearly indi- NOTES TO THE FIELD cated in their Journals seems to me should be particularly stressed to young students; the effect of discipline. You will observe that all the infractions of rules and orders occurred in that first year, between St. Louis and Mandan. There was disobedience, absence without leave, desertion, theft, incipient rebellions. Every case was dealt with, by a committee of the men; sentences were agreed upon, and justice administered. And the discipline proved its point; after Mandan there was not one other case of trouble with the men. Rules were established, and they were obeyed. The men were loyal, obedient, and zealous; the leaders were careful, considerate and just." SOCIAL SERVICE DEPT. A CALL to arms is heralded to the members of the Churcll. "Church-wide Beautification of our Places of Worship." Here is another opportunity for the application of our social service Lessons in Civic Sociology. The keynote of success in this project is loyal cooperation of every member of the family. That the Relief Societies have long since been standard bearers and pace setters in the beautification program is evidenced by the lovely rooms you have furnished in your various wards. Many Relief Society rooms are covered with carpet, the walls and woodwork decorated in appropriate colors, harmonious eS 447 drapes and suitable furniture give an atmosphere of peace and rest to all who enter your rooms. The hours of unselfish though weary toil are forgotten in the pride and heartfelt satisfaction you feel when you see what you have accomplished. That you will not fail to cooper ate in every way possible to extend your improvement program to every nook and corner of your Church inside and to the grounds surrounding it is self evident, because you have never failed in loyally supporting any movement for the beautification of our Church. Among the many needs of the Church is efficient janitorial service, care of sacrament service, improved sanitation, screened windows, comfortable seating, carpeted isles or entire floors, pride in class rooms, more trees, shrubs and _ flowers, walks, and fences. When the bishop calls for your suggestions concerning these problems we hope this little message will have given you an opportunity to have been thinking about the matter and find you well prepared to help where you are most needed. ERRATUM [X publishing the prices of the books for our Literary course next year on page 395 of the June issue a line was dropped. By turning to the advertising section in the front of the book the Deseret Book Company gives the correct price list. % Notes From The Field Julia A, F, Lund—General Secretary Malad Stake. FROM the Malad Stake comes the following comprehensive report of the activities of 1936-37. We certainly congratulate Sister Nellie K. Dredge, the President. It is difficult to see a phase of activity which this enterprising Stake has not conducted. In August of 1936 the Stake Board sponsored a pre-school clinic. The cooperation of the doctors and dentists with Relief Society was most complete. The mothers of the community had been brought to realize the importance of having the children examined and the corrective work done. The class leaders' and visiting teachers' convention held in September was a most successful event. The following is a copy of the material on the card which was given to each visiting teacher: "To be dependable. To make prayerful preparation of my work. To deliver my message. To speak no ill.. To be a mother in my district. To live worthy of my calling. To attend all my Relief Society and Visiting Teachers' meetings. To take sunshine into the homes I visit. To look for something beautiful in every home. To have tact and kindliness above all else. Seek seli-development daily, through the spirit of God, in exercising all spiritual and material resources." In September also the Relief Society joined with the Y. W. M. I. A. In conducting a county fair and a most beautiful flower show. The sisters from the entire Stake brought To flowers of different kinds. The event was most successful. In December the Stake Board prepared lunch and program and went to the Washakie Ward, where a very fine social was held with the Lamanite sisters. 'These sisters took part in the program of songs and games and in every way indicated their ability to cooperate in Relief Society work. The theme "Why we have a Work and Business meeting" was the subject for the Relief Society Conference. The Lamanite sisters made three beautiful quilts, the patterns and quilting and every phase ofthe work was done as beautifully as could be. There were also embroidered pillow cases, luncheon sets, and real buckskin gloves beautifully beaded. There were also many other lovely articles of a similar nature. The canned fruit made by the Washakie sisters was just as beautifully done as any in the Stake. So much of the credit for the fine work accomplished by the Lamanite sisters belongs to their President, Sister Margaret Parry, whose patience and persistence have produced beautiful results. The Stake Board and the local Relief Societies assisted the Old Folks Committee in their entertainment in February. A hot dinner was served to about four hundred by the Relief Society sisters. This was followed by a lovely program. On March 17 the Stake Board outlined a uniform program for the celebration of Anniversary Day, and the event was carried out in exquisite detail in all the wards. To stimulate enrollment and average attendance the Daughters Day program was observed. The majority of Relief Society membership attended the Temple NOTES FROM THE FIELD Mission which was sponsored in the Logan Temple in May of this year. A ladies' chorus of Relief Society members sang the selections and the Relief Society Stake President spoke during the meeting. The Scriptural Project has been taken up with great enthusiasm and many of the members have completed the reading of the Bible and memorized the names of the books. In concluding her report Sister Cecelia D. Rutter, the Secretary, writes, "Each year we aim to make a change in reference to our program for Relief Society Conference. One year we took Theology as the subject, then Literature. 'This year we took Work and Business, and asked each ward to bring in the quilts SAN BERNARDINO WARD RELIEF or other articles that had been made, so that at the Stake Conference, held on Sunday evening, there was a beautiful display. The Conferences have been held and successfully carried out. The songs and talks all coincided with the theme, and the Spit of each Conference was beautitul. 449 "Tt is marvelous how well and how beautifully the sisters have cooperated in contributing toward the Church Security Program. Shelves and shelves of lovely fruit of every variety have been conserved, and twenty-six serviceable quilts made, men's and women's clothing of various kinds, and dozens of pairs of wearable shoes and household articles have been contributed through the Relief Society to the Security work, "Our chief aim has been asa Stake Board to cooperate with the Priesthood, and to the very best of our ability carry out the details and advice and timely instructions which the General Board have sent to us." SOCIETY: San Bernardino Stake FROM one of our younger Stakes the above picture is sent. We were very happy to have this from San Bernardino. This picture was taken at the recent celebration of the anniversary of the founding of Relief Society. The script was written by Sister Roxana F. Hase in honor 450 of the seven General Presidents of the Relief Society. Those who impersonated the General Presidents were all either active or past presidents in Relief Society work. While some of our Stakes may. Be young in point of organization, they all have the spirit of Relief Society work, and we are most happy to hear from them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mission, and others write, 'We all feel that the Relief Society Magazine is indispensable to us. The wonderful material which it contains is of great help to us, and we want to tell you how much we appreciate it." Tongan Mission ROM far-away Tonga a very delightful letter came from Sister HAMILTON, MONTANA, RELIEF SOCIETY Northwestern States Mission HE office was very happy to receive the above picture from Sister Helen Jorgensen, Supervisor of the Mission Relief Societies. It is of the Hamilton Relief Society in the Montana District. According to reports from the Mission's office, this is one of the most enthusiastic organizations among the members. It is well organized and demonstrates upon all occasions a very fine spirit of cooperation. The activities and lesson program are successfully conducted. The picture was taken upon the occasion of their annual celebration for the Anniversary Day. This Evelyn H. Dunn. The picture on the opposite page is of the Haapai District. Sister Dunn has this to say of her organization: "The sisters are faithful in doing all that is asked of them, and I am sure they enjoy the work. We have just finished a very successful conference in each of the districts and the Relief Society sessions were enjoyed by all the Saints. "We experienced a bad hurricane in the Togatabu district in February, but no one was injured, The Saints seem to be able to have plenty of food, even though their crops were badly damaged. The work of the Relief Society, in helping the NOTES FROM THE FIELD 451 TONGAN MISSION poor and unfortunate is just a conThey are very wonderful to help tinuation of the old native customs, one another and scarcely ever ask and I am sure there will be no one for money from the Relief Society in want of food and clothing as long to do it with. I am sure they are as others of the Saints have any. Blessed for their goodness." 1 Sy2——__$~¢> TO UTAH By Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy For you, O Sunshine State, the hardy pioneers Poured precious blood and strewed along the trail, white bones To mingle with those of buffalo! And hot tears Of lonely wife oft wet a pile of cold grey stones; But when the wagon train moved on, with lifted head, And confidence in God, she turned toward setting sun, Determined fertile vales to till. Though he was dead— She went ever on, and by her side their son. Now golden wheat fields wave where once was only sage; No more does blood of hero saint stain red the trail: No savage demons over peaceful prairies rage; Nor Renegades burn wagon trains and rob the mail. God give to Utah and her faithful children, peace And courage to continue building, down the years; From everything that binds our faith give just release, Oh Blessed Father of the sons of pioneers. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON -.:.. - -.. 2 President AMY BROWN LYMAN - -: -.: - - - First Counselor KATE M. BARKER - - - - - -: - Second Counselor JULIA A, F. LUND - -. -. - - * Cancel Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Jennie B. Knight Elise B. Alder Belle S. Spafford Emma A. Empey Inez_K. Allen Donna Durrant Sorensen Annie Wells Cannon Ida P. Beal Vivian R. McConkie Lalene H. Hart Marcia K. Howells Leda T. Jensen Cora L. Bennion Emeline Y. Nebeker Beatrice F. Stevens Amy Whipple Evans Marv Connelly Kimball Rae B. Barker Rosannah C, Irvine' Janet M. Thampson Nellie O. Parker Nettie D. Bradford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - -: - - - - - - - where Connelly Kimball Manager -: - - -: - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager -: - -: - - -: - Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXIV JULY, 1937. No. 7 Editorials Difficulties With the coming of July 24 we that were far too good for them. We think of that sturdy band who deprived them of all trouble and pioneered the West and of the hardmade learning as easy and pleasant ships they endured. We pity them and painless as going fishing. Because they went through such try- "We told them there were nice ing experiences, but hardships are little jobs awaiting them just around not wholly undesirable. Through the corner with a nice wife and a overcoming difficulties there comes a mink coat and a nice house and a nice courage and fortitude that makes for mortgage, nicely handled by a nice the strongest character. Facing diffibank. Culties brings strength that an easy "As long as America had stoad for life never develops. Pioneering hardships, for pioneering, for fightbrings out latent resourcefulness. It ing one's way through the wilderness makes for brotherhood. Each feels —as long as there had been adventhe other's difficulties and tries to ture and uncertainty in the American lighten the burden. All share in the scheme of things—we had a definite joy that comes. Many people have and concrete American philosophy been dwarfed, the best in them never of life and nobody dreamed of imdeveloped because they have been porting from abroad what we could shielded from every hard thing. Find so infinitely better right here at Hendrix Willem Van Loon, noted home." historian, said at the National EduIsn't there a great deal in this arcation Association convention in raignment? Are we not all shielding New Orleans: childrentoo much from difficulty and "During the last three generations trying to make everything so easy we have done nothing but give in to that they do not develop the strength, our children. We gave them schools sturdiness, fortitude, that meeting EDITORIALS hard tasks gave to their parents? Much as mothers realize the strength that comes from battle, the fortitude that results from overcoming difficulties, yet they ever seek to shield their children and make life as easy as possible for them. Fortunately they are not able to wholly do this, otherwise their children would be very much weaker than they now are. Psychologists are telling us that we should all do something we don't An F all the notifications that our Magazines have failed to reach their destination we think the loveliest message we have received was written by Rose M. Hardy. She said: "Dear Relief Society Magazine. For some reason you have failed to greet me with your messages of love 453 want to do every day, that we should attempt difficult tasks for the strength that will result. It is well known that the furnace fires free the metal from the dross, and so it is no wonder that the Pioneers developed such strong characters. They had to face difficulties! They had to develop their ingenuity; they ad to stand together, helping each other to overcome difficulties and to bring victory out of seeming defeat. Art and cheer this month. Needless to tell you how lost I am without you, especially when I have to present the lesson in the Theology Department. You know how much I need you, so please get here as soon as you can. Affectionately." It's an art to be able to do things in such a sweet way as this. Magazine To Be Larger WE are glad to announce that henceforth our Magazine will be increased four pages in each issue. This will give us seventy or more pages of reading matter, according to the number of ads carried in each number. This is quite a growth from the size of the first issue, which had forty-four pages of reading matter. SousRer7>1. SAGE SONG By Martha Ball I love to stand on yonder hill And gaze out o'er the great expanse Of purple, tufted, scented, sage, After the storm, after the dance— After the dance of the sparkling rain, Whose tiny feet spread sweet perfume On every tuft of silver sage, On every quivering virgin plume. I stand alone on yonder hill, A soul bereft of a home-spun age. Seeking sweet peace in the solitude, Finding release in the primitive sage. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Lesson I Some Mormon CoNTRIBUTIONS TO AN UNDERSTANDING OF THE LIFE AND TEACHINGS OF CHRIST N this and the following lessons there are pointed out a number of distinctive Mormon contributions to Christ's life and work. In many respects the point of view of the Latter-day Saints is entirely different from that of the world. Those who desire to further pursue their studies as here indicated, and who have library facilities, may do so by comparing points of view expressed in the following list of books. The starred books are Mormon publications. Smith—*Gospel Doctrine. Smith—*The Way To Perfection. Talmage—*Jesus The Christ. Talmage—*The Articles of Faith. Gray—Critical Introduction to the Old Testament. McFadyen—Introduction To The Old Testament. Scott—Literature of The New Testament. Dana—New Testament Criticism. Klausner—Jesus of Nazareth. Case—E-xrperience With The Supernatural In Early Christian Times. 1. The Time of Christ's Birth — Many scholars have attempted to determine precisely the date of Christ's birth. However, we shall not here presume to point out the various lines of reasoning and methods used by those who have sought to fix this important mile post in world history. Suffice it to say that very able scholars disagree upon the year of our Savior's birth. The results range all the way from B. C. 1 to B. C. 9 with B. C. 4 being in all probability the most acceptable mean date. Dr. Joseph Klausner in his book, Jesus of Nagareth, is of the opinion that Jesus "was born in the reign of Augustus two to four years before the Christian era." Now two of our modern scriptures enable Latter-day Saints to more precisely point out the time of our Lord's birth. The Book of Mormon has several helpful references. Nephi definitely shows that "even six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem, a prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews—even a Messiah, or in other words, a Savior of the world." (1 Nephi 10:4; compare 1 Nephi 19:8; 2 Nephi 25:19.) The Nephite scripture records the fact that Lehi and his family were commanded by the Lord to leave Jerusalem "in the commencement ot the first year of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah." (1 Nephi 1:4, 2:2-4.) Zedekiah's reign must have commenced, therefore, about three years earlier than ordinarily supposed. The fulfilment of the Nephite prophets' predictions are recorded in 3 Nephi 1:1-21. One should read also in this connection the prophecy of Samuel, the Lamanite. (Helaman 14:2-7.) The Nephite people were given a marvelous sign of Christ's birth which occurred according to our reckoning in the year B. C. 1. The Doctrine and Covenants (20:1) seems to point out even the day of Christ's birth. "The rise of the Church of Christ in these last days, being one thousand eight hundred and thirty years since the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in LESSON DEPARTMENT the flesh, it being regularly organized and established agreeable to the laws of our country, by the will and commandments of God, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April." The exact date of Christ's birth is thus set on April 6, B. C. 1. Some people may feel this contribution to be of little importance. We feel that any contribution made to our knowledge of the Christ is of value. The consecrated labors of thousands of scholars are a testimony to that opinion. 2. The Problem of the Virgin Birth—lIn times past comparatively few people doubted the simple straightforward stories of the birth of Christ as related in the gospels of Matthew and Luke. While there have been those through the centuries who have been doubters, it is within comparatively recent times that the scepticism has become so pronounced. From some recent books on early Christian history one would almost glean the idea that the Palestinian of Christ's day, indeed most of the peoples of the Mediterranean world, were living in a fool's paradise of supernaturalism. Examples are cited from the literature paralleling practically every miracle mentioned in the New Testament, including Christ's miraculous birth. The conclusion we are supposed to draw is that the gospel stories simply reflect the naive and crude thinking of the day. We doubt not the individual examples brought forward to sustain this point of view, but we do very seriously doubt that Christ's followers were much less stable in their views of life than we are today. The chances are that they were very much like ourselves. Even if this were not so, there is no definite proof that Christ was not born in the manner stated by Matthew and Luke. Aside from all this we have the assurance of the Book of Mormon that 455 Christ was born in the manner mentioned by the gospels. Nephi's vision in which he was shown a virgin "bearing a child in her arms" leaves us with little doubt in the matter. (1 Nephi 11:13-21) But there can be no doubt when Abinadi tells us that the Son of God was "conceived by the power of God" (Mosiah 15:3), or when Alma makes the explicit statement that "he shall be born of Mary, at Jerusalem, which is the land of our forefathers, she being a virgin, a precious and chosen vessel, who shall be overshadowed and conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost, and bring forth a son, yea, even the Son of God." (Alma 7:10) These inspired statements are of great value to us. 3. Where Was The Savior Baptized? Most scholars of the present day believe the Savior was baptized in the river Jordan at a place called Bethany. If one will read the Revised Version of the Bible or some other modern translation as John 1:28, he will discover that the reading ''Bethabara" of the King James version has been changed to "Bethany." Unfortunately, none of the other gospels gives us a check on the name of the place where John was baptizing. All Matthew 3:13 says is, "Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan unto John, to be baptized of him." Many ancient manuscripts read "Bethany," others "Bethabara." Origen, one of the early Church fathers, states that he himself changed the readings of some ancient manuscripts froni Bethany to Bethabara, because he had made a visit to Palestine and had found no Bethany beyond Jordan, but only the one that was *near Jerusalem. Now, in view of the conflicting evidence, how are we to know the name of the place where John baptized the Christ? 456 Here, again, the Book of Mormon comes to our rescue. Nephi, in speaking of the prophecies of his father Lehi, refers to a "prophet who should come before the Messiah, to prepare the way of the Lord," and then says, "And: my father said he should baptize in Bethabara, beyond Jordan; and he also said he should baptize with water; even that he should baptize the Messiah with water." (See 1 Nephi 10:7-10.) 4. Did The Savior Perform Miracles? In last year's theology lessons one lesson was devoted to the miracles of Christ. We shall not at this point, therefore, spend much time in considering them except to point out the contribution our modern scriptures make in reference to their reality. The general trend of thought in our day, it will be remembered, is to discredit the performance of miracles by Christ and to attribute the New Testament accounts to the unusual supernaturalism rampant at the time of their writing. With this thought the Book of Mormon emphatically does not agree. Thus, Nephi in a vision of the future reports, 'I beheld the Lamb of God going forth among the children of men. And I beheld multitudes of people who were sick, and who were afflicted with all manner of diseases, and with devils and unclean spirits: and the angel spake and showed all these things unto me. And they were healed by the power of the Lamb of God; and the devils and the unclean spirits were cast out." (1 Nephi 11:31.) King Benjamin spoke of the Christ who "shall go forth among men, working mighty miracles, such as healing. The sick, raising the dead, causing the lame to walk, the blind to reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ceive their sight, and the deaf to hear, and curing all manner of diseases." (See Mosiah 3:5, 6.) In the light of modern thought the Book of Mormon thus gives a distinct contribution. We shall consider other contributions in the following lesson. Questions 1. Why is it important for Latter-day Saint parents to understand the current trends of religious thought? 2. Why have the people of the Church, generally speaking, not investigated the possible contributions of our modern scriptures to an understanding of the life and teaching of Christ? 3. In what way would it be in- - consistent for Latter-day Saints to deny that the Christ performed miracles? 4. Why can we not fully appreciate the contributions of our modern scriptures without knowing the religious thought of our day? Problems Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit. 1. Discuss the following statement made by a prominent writer. "The Christians' Bible" is rich in miracles. | Supernaturalism runs like a scarlet thread through the whole book from Genesis to. Revelation. For centuries this phenomenon was contemplated with entire satisfaction by both laity and clergy. But in modern times a different way of thinking has been gaining favor." Z. Let the class read 1 Nephi 19:10-17, 23, and point out contributions made to our present knowledge. LESSON DEPARTMENT 457 Teacher's Topic 1937-1938 INTRODUCTION "The building of character is one of the most important things in life. There is no greater task or more profitable undertaking than the improvement of our own lives. Our value to the world must be measured in terms of character. We cannot dream ourselves into a great life or a developed character. We must take hold of ourselves where we are and with well directed effort, patience, and determination, overcome those weaknesses which hold us back." In the building of any structure a plan or pattern is essential. The most perfect character pattern provided mankind is that of Jesus of Nazareth. Everywhere it is looming larger before the eyes of thinking men. This year we shall study certain traits and dispositions of the Master with a view of increasing our appreciation of this "perfect character" to such an extent that we will strive to be like unto Him. "A character which shines like a pillar of light is the world's greatest sermon and most powerful influence for good." Lesson 1 THE STRENGTH OF JESUS Yearly Aim: "To study the Master with a view of incorporating in our own lives His character traits." "To believe in Jesus is to imitate Him." Tt is God that girdeth me with strength and maketh my way perfect.—Psalms 18:32. "The good commander is not imperious, The good fighter is not wrathiul, The greatest conqueror does not wage war." E is strongest who rules by influence. For nineteen centuries the influence of the Christ has been spreading across oceans and continents, growing with the years until today his name is held in reverence by millions. The meek and lowly Nazarene, born of humble parents, never held a position of State nor ever raised or led an army. As he lived among men he held no position of power or prestige. He drew his followers largely from among fishermen and country folk. He devoted only three years of his life to active teaching. Yet he has been "a power mightier than the legions of Caesar or the wisdom of the greatest school." The great strength of Jesus is not only apparent in retrospect. Those who lived in his day, saw his face. Heard his voice, bear testimony of it. John, the Baptist, was a man mighty among men, but when Jesus presented himself before John to be baptized, John answered, "I have need to be baptized of thee and comest thou to me?" As Jesus walked by the Sea of Galilee he saw Simon and Andrew fishing, and Jesus said unto them, "Come ye after me and I will make you to become fishers of men." And straightway they forsook their nets and followed Him. In the same manner did James and John follow after Him. To their death these men were most ardent disciples of the Christ. Only one of great strength could have drawn and held men thus. As Jesus taught in the synagogue at Capernaum many listened to Him 458 and followed Him. He was like a man among other men, a friend to all—The words which He taught were not wholly new. But the people were astonished at His doctrine for His word was with power. Another illustration of the power of Jesus is the estimate people placed upon Him when Jesus asked, "Whom do men say that I am?" And they answered, "Some say thou art John the Baptist; some Elias; and others Jeremias, or one of the prophets." They compared Him with great ones who had gone before. This is remarkable. "The name of no man living was great enough to convey their idea of the strength they felt resided in Jesus." When the Roman officials came to arrest Him and asked Him if He was indeed Jesus of Nazareth and He said, "I am," they fell backward to the ground. The greatest proof however of the strength of Jesus is the intensity with which men both hated and loved Him—'He moved among people like a gentle current yet wherever He went He stirred and agitated human society to its depths." He was hated until they crucified Him and He kindled a devotion that has burned for 19 centuries. The great strength of Jesus lay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in the divinity of His nature and His central theme was righteousness and the brotherhood of man. He expected the best in humanity and staked His faith preeminently upon the individual. He leads each one to search his own soul for the divinity within him; to grow strong through faith in God and service to mankind; through self-mastery; through the exercise of patience, kindliness, love, purity of thought and action. "It is God that girdeth me with strength and maketh my way perfect.”— Psalm 18:32. In the preparation of these lessons The Character of Jesus by Jetferson, has been most helpful. References:—Matt. 3:14; Mark 1:16-20; Luke 4:31; Matt. 16:13- 14. Jefferson—Character of Jesus. Questions 1. Give further examples of the strength of the Savior. 2. How may strength of character be developed? 3. Analyze the character of the prophet Joseph Smith; Brigham Young; Heber J. Grant. Show wherein their strength lies. 4. What usually makes for strength in leadership? Literature Lesson 1 SACAGAWEA OME people may wonder why a half-savage Indian woman's biography should be selected for study in a course of this sort. The defense offered, if a defense is needed, is that nobility should be recognized wherever it is found. Sacagawea was an Indian woman who lived in this land of ours and who had an important role to play in the winning of the West. Sacagawea takes her place among the very few Indian women of America whose works brought them into notice if not renown. In studying biography as literature, we shall attempt to do two things: become acquainted with the LESSON DEPARTMENT character whose biography we are studying and with the author of the biography, by noting her manner and method of presenting her character. A biography, if it is to lay claim to literary value, must be well written and must present the life in question in a convincing manner. Sacagawea, a Shoshoni maiden, was born in what is now Idaho about the year 1785. Nobody knows exactly where or when. However, a monument has been erected at what has been selected as her birth-place in the Salmon River country and calculations have led historians to believe that she was born about the date suggested. Accident—or was it the inscrutable workings of a higher power— placed this slender Indian gir] in the path of an epic expedition and made her a most important character in the drama that took place during the years 1804-05. Mrs. Hueston's romance of the Lewis and Clark expedition begins with this girl at the age of about 13. While she calls her story a romance, we must not forget that it is built upon facts gleaned from the journals of the party and from her own experience in traversing the route taken by the explorers. The author says in her foreword: "T ought not to call myself the author of this book. It was really written by six dead heroes, Americans all. Their names were Lewis and Clark, Floyd, Ordway, Whitehouse and Gass. I have merely novelized the original journals of the Lewis and Clark Expedition—America's Epic of Exploration." The Shoshonis, according to the story, had gone over the mountains to the east in search of game for their winter's supply of meat and clothing and wigwams when they were attacked by the Minitarees, a tribe of Indians of the North. Sacagawea 459 was taken prisoner. As young as she was, however, she had already been betrothed to White Bear, an Indian much older than herself. He had bound the betrothal while she was yet an infant by giving her father a mule and a good horse. Mrs. Hueston's description of the girl on page 13 of the book, is well done although, of course, we must remember that the description has been novelized. - The naming of the Shoshoni girl Bird-Woman—Sacagawea—is interestingly presented. When Wild Crow, the Minitaree brave, took the girl to his camp, he told his squaw, Cold Flower, that he had brought her a fish. He called the little girl a fish because he had caught her in a stream of water whither she ran in an attempt to escape. When, however, he dismounted and went to assist the little girl to the ground, she, who had lived all her life with horses, sprang to her feet on the horse's back and leaped to the ground unassisted. "The big Minitaree roared with laughter," says Mrs. Hueston. "Did I say it was a fish I brought!” he ejaculated. 'This is no fish. It is a bird I have caught you. See, she flies! She flies like a bird. She is a Bird-Woman.' "The delighted squaw shook with chuckling laughter. " "Tsakaka-wea!' She repeated. 'She is a Bird-Woman.' "And so they called their little maiden Sacagawea, Bird-Woman." 'See page 22. Sacagawea was happy in the home of the Minitaree, but not for long. There the house was better than she had been used to, the beds were different but more comfortable, and the food was more plentiful. She had accustomed herself to living, though a slave girl, in the home of Wild Crow and Cold Flower when fortune's wheel made another turn and 460 she became slave-wife to Charbonneau. This shift of fortune was tragic, but it was important. Had she not made this change she might never have been taken on the Lewis and Clark expedition and they might never have succeeded in crossing the Shining Mountains. While Sacagawea's life was undergoing the changes noted, Lewis and Clark were preparing to ascend the Missouri River in order to explore the new Louisiana Purchase for President Thomas Jefferson. These two young men were close friends though they were quite different in personality. Lewis was known as a dandy—a Sublime Dandy—while Clark was more practical. Lewis was given the higher rank, but he insisted that for the trip Clark was to be his equal and was to be called Captain. " 'There is no Lewis Expedition,' said Lewis sternly. 'It is Lewis and Clark, once and for all. Whether we come back in the glory of success, or whether we find a place of rest in some happy-hunting-ground of the Northwest—it will always be Lewis and Clark.' He smiled suddenly, a warm engaging smile. 'Damon and Pythias,' he said. "David and Jonathan, Lewis and Clark. We are the third in a great triumvirate of friendship.' " The expedition in three boats left Camp DuBoise at 4 p. M. May 14, 1804, and started slowly up the Missouri River bent upon going where white men had never been before. This party, after spending months on the yellow Missouri, came at last to the Mandan towns in what is now North Dakota, where they remained for the winter. Here they met Charbonneau, an interpreter, and learned that one of his wives was a Shoshoni girl. They -were immediately interested for it would be necessary for them to pass through the Shoshoni RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE country where they hoped they would be able to establish friendly relations and secure horses with which to carry themselves and their belongings over the Shining Mountains. Charbonneau, eager to be engaged as interpreter for the party, sent his handsomest wife—Sacagawea—with gifts for the white strangers. Her meeting with Lewis and Clark is well told by Mrs. Hueston: "Accompanied by another Indian girl—Little Rabbit—Sacagawea presented herself at the fort and said they had called with presents for the white chiefs. Lewis and Clark, determined to make friends with the Indians, invited the two women in. "With the swift keen glance of the Indian, she (Sacagawea) took in the ~ entire businesslike room: its tables, its benches, its strange shining instruments. She saw Lewis coming from his papers at his desk with a sigh and a polite, conventional smile. And she saw Clark! Saw the friendly, honest blue eyes; the firm kind lips; the bright hair tossed back on his forehead. Her breath came quickly. This was a great chief! Stirred as she had never been in all her young life, trembling, but undaunted, she presented the robes. "With compliments,' she said faintly." Then ensued a conversation between the white chiefs and the little strange squaw and they found in her intelligence and learned of her nationality. They asked about the Snake Indians and learned that these girls were of them. Realizing that they could not take the girl away from her husband, they immediately engaged Charbonneau as guide with the stipulation that the worthless fellow was to take his Shoshoni wife along with him. During the weeks that followed, Sacagawea gave birth to her first LESSON DEPARTMENT child, who was also to make the trip over the Shining Mountains and down to the great Western Sea riding most of the time on his mother's capable back. "At four o'clock on a Sunday aiternoon the expedition left Mandan." On board the largest boat was Sacagawea, the Indian slave-girl, envied of all the Indian women in the place. "Dressed in her handsomest leather skirt, with the longest and neatest fringe, wearing her embroidered collar and her tinkling earrings, Sacagawea stood erect in the stern of the white pirogue, the baby dosing at her back. It was the hour of her triumph." Sacagawea had met her crisis and was safely on the road to immortality as well as to the Great Sea beyond the Shining Mountains. The quotations in this lesson "From Star of the West, By Ethel Hueston, Copyright 1935, Used by Special Permission of the Publishers, The Bobbs-Merrill Company." Suggestions for Class Presentation 1. Maps will add interest to this 461 and the following two lessons. Road maps will do, if no others are available. These maps could be marked as the party progresses up the river. 2. Some one might be asked to make a brief report upon the Louisiana Purchase. 3. Characterize the following by reading passages from the book or other books about them: Lewis, Clark, Sacagawea, Charbonneau, the Missouri River. 4. If there is a woman in the class who has known Indians well, it might be interesting to have her tell of experiences with them. 5. Give an estimate of Ethel Hueston's ability at presenting places and people in an interesting manner. Give examples of her insight by reading passages from the book. 6. Other books which might be helpful, if available: Red Mother, by Frank B. Linderman; Dona Marina, by George Gardner, Improvement Era, Jan., 1933, Page 153; The Story of the Red Man, by Flora Warren Seymour; Tudor Publishing Co., New York. Social Service Lesson 1 INDEPENDENCE THROUGH COOPERATION Text: "Civic Sociology," by Edward A. Ross, Chapter XX. OPERATION is a very important aspect of social welfare. But the term itself implies a certain amount of personal curtailment in favor of group organization, while independence presupposes freedom. Independence is one of the fundamental traits of human nature, therefore the spirit of cooperation cannot thrive in a democratic society unless it contributes to this trait. Because it is difficult to understand how independence can be gained through personal sacrifice for mutual benefit, the ideal of cooperation is difficult to project upon the popular mind, and it is still more so to attain. But in the modern world all life is dependent for its actual existence upon the closely interwoven activities of society. There is no part of the social fabric which is not contingent upon this condition. Therefore cooperation is vital to life. Naturally greater independence can be achieved through a recognition of this vital necessity than through its ignoring. 462 The relation of independence to cooperation makes an interesting study. Our text describes independence as a state of mind which has nothing to do with the fact that one happens to be employed. It is a feeling of satisfaction which arises from a state of well-being toward life. Such a state is not fostered by the hatred which arises from an attempt to surpass others by means of selfish competition or to subdue them through the force of conflict. Both conditions are negative and destructive to Independence because they destroy the feeling and the state of well-being if one is alive and sensitive to the welfare of others. Neither contributes to the spirit of independence as described or to a cooperative society. This lesson will attempt to show how cooperation contributes to independence, or freedom from strife. The following points will be developed: 1. The importance of cooperation in all of life's activities as a means to independence. 2. The means of developing the cooperative spirit in economic, spiritual, social, and intellectual life. The desire for independence exists in all people. Many persons think of this quality only in relation to its political meaning; others regard it as a matter of economic life. But independence has numerous applications to life situations. Among other standpoints it may be interpreted from an economic, spiritual, social, and intellectual point of view. Independence in all of these phases is highly desirable, but since each is subject to different implications in the minds of different people, a general definition of each will be given here for the purpose of discussion, and their means of attainment will be indicated. Economic independence is freedom from financial worry as achieved RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE on the economic level that is commensurate with one's earning capacity. A state of comfortable economic independence was rather easy to attain in the early history of all American pioneering. It was achieved by a remarkably high percentage of colonizers and settlers in the agrarian state of society. Fathers, mothers, and children worked together as one for the common good of the family. Industrial depressions, loss of foreign markets, and the changing of trade routes were not greatly feared because the economic comfort of a family did not depend upon them. The production of goods was essentially a family matter, or at most a community concern; and that family was happy which could see a supply of goods stored away in its cellar and granary for the needs of its present and near future. Security was a family affair which rested largely upon personal initiative rather than upon group, national, or international relations. This homely economy was conducive to the building of a stable character. It provided an outlet for the spirit of rugged individualism, and it developed many sterling qualities, among which was this cherished feeling of independence through self-sufficiency. But the population has undergone the great movement from rural to urban life. Agriculture is now only one phase of life. Moreover, it is as closely related to the activities of organization as any other field of living. Farmers are as much dependent upon cooperation in the science of soil-production as are members of densely populated centers dependent upon organization for their living. The former state of personal sufficiency has entirely given way in all walks of life to the necessity for group organization, division of labor, community of action, and harmony LESSON DEPARTMENT of national and international purposes. But the need for money is more keenly felt than ever before, because as individual production has decreased the necessity to buy has increased. There is no commodity of daily life for which money has not been exchanged at one stage or another. In this cooperative scheme of production which now exists it seems that many give much in time and labor while others receive most of the profit. But it must be remembered that without the brain of organization the smallest paid employee could receive nothing; and also, that in the cooperative scheme of living the least important position is a vital cog in the scheme. But how does this condition of cooperation solve the problem of economic independence for the man of small means? There is a double answer to that question. Firstly: All wages and income, great and small, are absolutely dependent upon the organization of society. Man curtails his independ- 'ence in order to gain more. But secondly, and of greater importance than this, is another kind of independence which it is well to point out: Insight into any man's life reveals the fact that the man of wealth is hardly less free from economic worry than the low-waged employee. There is a philosophy to be gained from this: Economic independence is not a matter of the amount of money that one has to spend as much as it is a state of mind which frees one from worry. There is a kind of beauty in life to which all men are entitled; it is often plentiful in humble dwellings and frequently lacking in mansions. What one buys is actually of less importance than how one lives, and the feeling with which one spends. Naturally freedom from debt is important to economic independ- 463 ence. But barring disaster, this state can be maintained on a small income. Mass production makes it possible, for which we have to thank the cooperative scheme of life. Independence can thus be gained—and also independence of mind can be gained if we remember that the lad who shines the traveller's windshield at a filling station is of no more and yet of no less importance to the scheme of things than is the man in the tire factory who stands all day long before a rubber press, and that neither he, the traveller, nor the lad could exist without the other, and that none of us could get along without the organizing head. We must also realize that the man at the head who is free from worry and is economically independent because he slaves us to the bone while he reaps the advantage is a myth—he does not exist. Livings are made through cooperative enterprises. Economic independence is a state of mind. Because we can buy advantageously as a result of the cooperation which furthers mass production we can live on our incomes if we will. There is happiness to be found on a very small scale of living; and happiness is independence. Spiritual independence is no more a matter of standing alone in the interpretation of religion than is the problem of earning a living an individual question. But again there is a seeming contradiction to solve. Spirituality is a personal matter; it pertains to the very core of each person's inmost nature. It springs from the inner life. But it must be remembered that without the organization of religion there would be no soil with which to nurture its growth. Even the great prophets who have founded religions have been dependent upon a higher source than themselves. They have looked to God, 464 and have received divine revelation and guidance. Without spirituality no man can call himself an independent being— because he is a slave to fear and earthly convention. But the fact of death makes of man a solitary creature in at least one inexorable way of life; and there are other ways of aloneness to the thinking person. But the presence of spirituality in one's nature gives him communion with higher forces which ease the lonely heart and foster independence because of the feeling of sufficiency which he gains from a sense of harmony with the universe. Therefore personal sacrifice for the benefit of religious organizations should be counted a great blessing because of the good that one receives from belonging to such cooperative spiritual organizations, and because of the good that one can do for others. Truly, religious organizations are a matter of giving and receiving. The principles of our own gospel are guides to living in accordance to the precepts of the Great Master and our own religious law. By living in harmony with the constituted authorities of the Church and their subordinates who devote themselves to the plans and work of the authorities one gains an understanding of Christianity and Mormonism. Such understanding leads to spiritual independence through the growth of religious knowledge and a testimony of its truth. No finer example of cooperation can be found than that of two missionaries who represent opposite interests in life and yet who work with one heart and mind while they are engaged in teaching the gospel. When life is so lived a veritable testimony of the truth results which gives to each possessor a feeling of spiritual independence. Social cooperation is the development of community or national unity of interest towards which great numbers of people are willing to work. This kind of cooperation leads to personal independence because an altruistic effort which furthers the interests of all people fosters an awareness of the common interests of life; and by giving of one's self in devotion to the great social causes, independence is created through the knowledge of having done one's part as well as from the benefits that are reaped through the combined action of cooperative effort. Such an effort should result in social betterment. There is no question that the general health level of a whole nation is raised after a united effort has been made to eradicate such communicable diseases as tuberculosis, diphtheria, typhoid fever, small pox, etc. The degree of independence which man gains as a whole is measured by the degree of unity which is attained in the struggle to free humanity from a scourge. Thus both personal and national independence is gained through social cooperation. Intellectual independence is a highly desirable attainment. It develops confidence and self assurance in the pursuit of one's life goals. It fosters leadership among men, and through leadership society is organized to cultivate intelligence among the great masses of people. In helping the masses to gain a degree of intellectual maturity their contribution to the welfare of society is proportionately increased. Research laboratories bring forth hidden truths of science through cooperative effort. Universities impart knowledge and seek to develop desirable social patterns of life. But neither research laboratories nor universities could exist without the cooperative support of tax-payers, beneficent men of wealth, and community support. The people of the world are truly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in need of a greater spirit of cooperation in all of life's activities. Industrial, social, intellectual, and even religious life can reach far higher degrees of success when contributing parties actively cooperate for the mutual good of all. It is only through conscious cooperation in all life purposes that the greatest degree of independence may be possible to each individual. Activities 1. Study some of the conflicts of interest to your community, and en- 465 deavor to work out some form of cooperation which would unite the contending parties. Would your solution bring a greater spirit of independence to each side of the controversy? 2. It is said that social progress is measured in part by the discovery of new forms of cooperation. Discuss the statement and illustrate your point of view with local examples. 3. Point out the part which cooperation has played in building up the prestige which the National Woman's Relief Society now enjoys. Literature for Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH WE hear much about what men in the Church have done, not much about the activity of women. This does not mean, however, that the part performed by women is unimportant. The contrary is the truth. The work done by the women of the Church has been of the utmost value, and their faith and devotion to the Church have often been greater than that of their men folk. Very high praise is justly due the women for their loyalty and service. In the following lessons a consideration will be given to the life activities of five very worthy women. Their lives were lived largely in the quiet and retirement of the home. These women were not exceptional— they were and are typical of many thousands of other worthy women in whose lives are found exemplified in full measure the high qualities that go to make genuine nobility of character—the type of nobility most pleasing to God. The lives of these women may be studied with great profit by other women. They moved in humble walks of life where the very great majority of women move. Their fidelity, heroism and success cannot fail to be a lofty inspiration to all other good women who are striving to live acceptably to our Father in Heaven. Lesson 1 MARGARET BACH HUEFNER Born in Alsace-Lorraine GOD'S children live in every land and clime. His Gospel—the plan of salvation—is universal, designed for all His sons and daughters wherever they have lived or may live. On hearing the Gospel message some choice souls of many different lands have accepted it. Among those who 466 did this was Margaret Julia Bach, born July 17, 1881, in Sarreguemine, Alsace-Lorraine. She was a quiet girl and deeply interested in religious matters. In her early girlhood she read the Bible a great deal and through the influence of one of her brothers became acquainted with various denominational groups. At the age of twelve she was convinced that the Lutheran Church (to which her parents belonged) did not comply with the teachings of the Bible. About that time the Lutheran minister sent her from his class saying, "I will not have a Baptist in my class." She had attended the meetings of the Baptists but was not a member, although several members of the family had joined that denomination. When she was fifteen, she joined the United Brethren and enjoyed their discussions and gatherings, but she was not satisfied because there were some of their teachings that did not seem to agree with the Bible, and there were many questions concerning religious doctrine which they could not answer. Four years later, while she was walking along the street, a young man walked up to her and handed her a leaflet. She felt singled out and looked at the leaflet and found that it referred to an unfamiliar religious group, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. At home the tract was read several times, and Mother Bach decided to ask a neighbor for more information concerning it. This neighbor was a Latter-day Saint, and in answer to the inquiry of Mother Bach, she sent her husband and a missionary to the Bach home. After several months' investigation, Margaret, her father, her mother and a sister accepted the message of the Mormon missionary, and they were baptized. Now the persecution RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE began; the minister of the Lutheran Church delighted to persecute the Bach family in the market place while they were trying to sell the produce grown in their truck garden. Many slanders were circulated about them, and they were continually disturbed no matter where they went. In the Spring of 1903 Margaret left her home in Sarreguemine and came to America. She arrived in Salt Lake City on May 22, 1903, in good health and feeling happy. She was met by friends who made her welcome, and she immediately felt at home. On the Sunday following her arrival, she attended the German meeting where she met further friends, among whom was Brother Frederick Huefner, who had but recently returned from a mission to Germany. A week after her arrival, she obtained work in a home in the Eighteenth Ward. She attended the various meetings there and found a host of friends among the young people of the Ward. She regularly visited the German meetings each Sunday and found full satisfaction in her Church membership and the assistance given her by her friends. On December 23, 1903, she married Frederick G. F. Huefner in the Salt Lake Temple. They bought a home and were very happy together. During the first year, before the oldest son was born, she very often went to the Salt Lake Temple to perform ordinance work for the dead. After the first baby was born, her attendance at the Temple was less frequent because the duties of the home required her attention. They were blessed with four children, three boys and one girl. Her husband was very active in his Church duties, and she assisted and accompanied him whenever possible. On New Year's Day, 1912, her husband suddenly died. He had left LESSON DEPARTMENT the house in apparent good health to check on some matters pertaining to his daily work and was stricken with a fatal heart attack. However, Sister Huefner's testimony was that all was well in the providence of God and that the Lord would provide for her and assist her in the rearing of her children. Brother Huefner had often remarked that he felt that he would be called upon another mission, and she felt that this was the call for him to perform work in the spirit world. He had done most of the ordinance work in the Temple for his ancestors, and it was now necessary for him to minister and preach unto them. She was left alone with the four small children; the oldest son was seven years of age and the youngest was eight months old. But with full faith in the Lord she set about to rear her children as she and her husband had planned together. She found that the Lord was with her more than ever, and she was able to care for and rear her family as she desired. She took care of the home, went out as a seamstress to earn money, directed the school activities of the children and carefully guided them in their religious duties. She sewed all of their clothes and made most of their playthings. With the help of her boys she kept the home in proper repair. During those years she came to fully appreciate the teachings of her parents who had taught their children to be frugal and to be good managers. Notwithstanding the training which she had had, there were many problems which she did not know how to solve and then she went to the Lord in prayer and she received the inspiration and assistance to solve them. As the children grew she had them help her to make a living for the family. After school they sold magazines and daily papers to earn money. 467 As soon as she was old enough the daughter took care of children. One after the other of her children finished grammar school and graduated from high school. They were active in the various organizations of the Church, and they were always found doing something to earn means to sustain themselves. Her oldest son attended the University of Utah for two years and then was called on a mission to Germany. She was extremely happy that her son could go to carry the message of the Gospel to others even as the missionaries had brought the message to her. It was a struggle to take care of the needs of the home and also to send money to her missionary son, but she found that the means were always provided. On several occasions she obtained enough work just a few days before she planned to send a letter to him, which provided her with the necessary amount to send to him to pay his expenses. Her oldest son returned from his mission in the Fall of 1927, and in 1930 the next son also went on a mission to Germany. During this time, too, she worked and planned to assist him in his missionary work, and she was happy to render this service. Her children all received a good education and are all well employed in daily work. They are happily married, and she now has four grandsons. The oldest son is a member of a Bishopric and the other two boys are active in various Priesthood and Auxiliary organizations. Her daughter is President of the Relief Society in the Ward in which she is resident. During all these years Sister Huefner has regularly attended her meetings and has taken part in the Relief Society and other organizations in the Ward. She took her children with her to Sacrament 468 meetings and saw that they were tidily dressed when they went to Sunday School or Mutual or when they went to other necessary meetings. Sister Huefner is truly grateful for the blessings which have come to her. She has been sustained and helped in her problems by the Lord, and she praises His name for the joys and experiences that have come to her. She is unwavering in her testimony that the true Gospel was brought to her and that she has experienced the blessings of the Lord and the inspiration of His Spirit during all of her life. Her neighbors, associates and friends admire her for her integrity and humble spirit and for the courage and faith which she had in rearing her family. They love to associate with her. Her children honor her and are grateful for the teachings which she implanted in their hearts and that she assisted them, by precept and example, to gain a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Questions for Discussion 1. Relate how Margaret Bach RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Huefner came to join the L. D. S. Church. 2. Tell why you think she was religiously inclined. 3. The Gospel as taught by L. D. S. Missionaries is in harmony with the Bible. Give illustrations of this truth.: 4. State how you think Sister Huefner got her testimony of the divinity of the Gospel as taught by the Elder. 5. In what ways may a testimony be obtained? 6. In what ways did Sister Huefner overcome discouragement and solve perplexities? 7. State how her faith in prayer was justified. 8. Tell why she was a good mother. 9. What correct principles of child-training did she use? 10. Point out the nobility in her character. 11. What high moral and spiritual qualities did she exhibit? 12. Wherein does her strength of character lie? Child Guidance Lesson I SOCIAL BEHAVIOR PERSONALITY grows out of the need people have for getting along with each other. It is what the individual learns in the give and take of everyday contact with others. A hermit who has no society with his fellows has very little or a poor personality, while the statesman whose great business is to influence and control others has a strong personality. He knows how to manipulate the people he deals with because he understands their needs as well as his own. In the infant, personality begins to appear when he learns that crying will bring his mother to the cradle side. This kind of control over the mother is essentially of the same nature as that of the polished adult who uses all of the arts and graces of polite society to promote great business deals or to foster the fine friendships and loyalty that make our social lives secure and satisfying. Smiling is one of the most powerful tools for controlling people. The person who can pull himself together LESSON DEPARTMENT and smile in a tense moment saves himself much trouble. The infant, who is more interested in people than in things, smiles by the end of his second month when adults approach him. He squeals and babbles at them by the time he is eight months old. Expressions of interest in the presence of an adult result from the fact that people have always been associated with the satisfying of his wants. At about six months, the child responds with laughter to bodily stimulation, and at seven months he laughs when toys are presented. Normally a child does not have much interest in the welfare of others until he is two to five years of age. At two years, children have ordinarily begun to play in pairs, but not cooperatively. The child's interest is directed more to what the other child has that can be appropriated to his own use than in the other child himself. However, between three and five years there is a gradual increase in the number of children who gather voluntarily into groups for play, groups of five being the most common if that many are available. Children under two years care nothing about the age of their playmates, but between two and twelve years there is a preference for those of the same age and sex. If observation were made of children of all ages, children who are obstinate or negativistic would be found more frequently at ages two to four years than at any other period. This point was mentioned in a previous lesson on temper tantrums, in which it was pointed out that the child goes about on its feet at this age and is trying to get control of the new world to which his feet bring him. He is also beginning to get control of the larger social world through language. But because he has not yet gained complete control over the new objects and 469 people, he is inclined to be obstinate and to throw temper tantrums for want of a better way out. The tantrum frequently brings what he cannot acquire through any other method and is retained as a social habit because of its great usefulness. Boastfulness reaches a peak at age ten or twelve years for most children, which indicates that the child is inclined to compensate or substitute for a sense of inadequacy just before he launches into the early stages of adulthood. Children have no inborn ideas about how to get along with people. They must learn to handle people by the same painful route that they learned that fire burns. But to learn the social value of various acts—and every child tries literally thousands of ways of getting along with people—is more difficult than to learn how to handle a bicycle or an electric train. With material things the consequences are generally clear and invariable; but in handling people the result of a given act is often vague and varies with the person it is directed towards and the effect on the same person is often different at different times. The lad who has just learned at school that flipping a paper wad at a comrade brings a volley of laughter, is struck with consternation when his newspaper-reading father sees nothing funny in paper wads. In other words, the "score changes" from person to person and the child is in a constant dilemma to know what to do under each new social circumstance. When we reflect upon the number of social contacts and adjustments a child makes in an ordinary day, we can see how his personality habits are acquired. He learns to interpret the facial and vocal expressions of people, he learns many of the rules of regulated living, he learns a respect for the welfare of other people, and thus his person- 470 ality grows as he acquires the cultural controls his group imposes upon him. The home, of course, is the great laboratory for building personality. If the example set by parents is poor, the children will suffer. Parents often criticize in the children the very conduct of which they have been guilty themselves. Relations between children themselves may have a profound effect on their personality growth. The younger sister of a domineering child may lack normal qualities of leadership and may always be timid and lack self confidence because the older sister has always assumed the responsibility of making all of the decisions. On the other hand, the dominated child may compensate by becoming very overbearing herself and obstinate to the extreme. The 'only child' has his own peculiar difficulties. He is frequently pampered and protected, and becomes the emotional outlet for parents (or grandparents) who have no other. The importance of the child's needs are paramount in the home, much to the injury of his personality, for when he attempts to adjust socially out of the home he is woefully lost and must learn new ways of getting along. A child's social experience should be guided so that on the whole it will be pleasant to him, but not at the expense of others. Severe embarrassment at the first attempt to enter into new relations with people often makes children timid. Timidity in turn makes the child avoid social contacts and deprives him of the personality development which comes only from many efforts to find his way among people. An extreme example will illustrate this point. A child of nine years was brought to a psychological clinic because he was doing poor RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE school work. He was taken to a room for an individual verbal examination to determine if he had the intellectual ability to do the work of his grade in school. In spite of tactful attempts to draw him out, he steadfastly refused to talk. Finally, a non-verbal, jig-saw puzzle type of test was brought in. The boy immediately took great interest in the new task and his cooperation was perfect throughout the examination. But this test did not require him to say anything. His mentality was perfectly normal; yet after two hours of interesting work at the test, the boy still had not and would not speak a word. It was learned that he would not ever speak in school, and yet his school work was fairly good except for that one difficulty. He spoke about school when he was at home and with other children, but he would not answer any questions or talk at all in the presence of strange adults. Further study revealed that the child, always somewhat timid around older brothers, had entered the first grade under great emotional strain; he would not respond and was promptly threatened and every effort was made to force him to speak. This was a bitter experience, and was perhaps often repeated the more resistant he became. Children probably made fun of his timidity around the playgrounds. To speak before adults or strangers became so unpleasant that he could not even be tricked into saying a word. Severe unpleasantness affects the child's participation in group activity and perhaps has much to do with the trend of his entire personality development. Unscrupulous strangers who frighten children sometimes do irreparable harm. Only practice in social situations will enable one to learn how to make those fine distinctions which mark LESSON DEPARTMENT the considerate, well-liked, and socially desirable adult. Children should be given many contacts with all ages of people, particularly those of their own age. Timidity is not the only defect that may develop in the attitude of the child toward the group. Overbearing children are common and equally as unsuccessful socially when they become adults. Placing of such a child in a group where he cannot hold the center of the stage on all occasions may help to balance him. More success will be found, however, by attempting to see what lies behind his aggressiveness. Often it will be found that the child is covering up some inadequacy he senses in some other phase of his personality, such as failure to excel in school work. (This problem will be treated more in detail in a subsequent lesson on "Personality Adjustments".) An understanding parent can be of considerable help by showing how friends and general favor with other children are lost when the child persists in pushing the others aside and never giving them a chance at being in the center of the stage. Group games are accepted, next to intimate family relations, as the most promising means of developing personality in the child. Vigorous activity, respect for the rights of others, ability to follow rules of the game, and ability to work cooperatively for a common aim are factors of value 471 in most phases of life. Group games are the best remedy for the timid and withdrawn child, if the games are well regulated and the child is wisely introduced into them. Problems for Discussion 1. Show what value the following particular habits have in helping one to get along with other people: A. A pleasing, well modulated, conversational voice. B. A genuine smile and ready laugh. C. Careful avoidance of too frequent use of personal pronouns. D. Effective methods of working, appearance of being a useful person. E. An intelligent insistence on not being pushed aside or being imposed upon by more aggressive people. F. Eagerness to be center of the stage on occasion, but recognition of the same right for others. 2. To what extent do you think personality (including disposition) can be changed? How? 3. Show how shyness and timidity result from unpleasant early social experience. 4, What would you do to help a child who has become very shy? For one who is overbearing in a group? PEACE By Claire Stewart Boyer Peace can come only to a quiet heart, Allay thy strife— And trust a far infinity Instead of life! NEW SIGHTS NEW DELIGHTS More than 100 interesting places to see... Diversions to enjoy... Are described in this newly revised and enlarged travel book. Attractively illustrated. Many odd facts about familiar and unfamiliar places. Ask for a FREE COPY at any MOTOR ON Pep 88—Vico Station GASOLINE STATIONS EVERYWHERE IN UTAH AND IDAHO NO MOVING PARTS TO WEAR with SERVEL ELECTROLUX the GAS REFRIGERATOR That's why you get: @ More Years of Satisfaction @ Comfort of Permanent Silence @ Continued Low Operating Cost @ Perfect Food Protection SAVINGS THAT PAY FOR IT As a result of its simpler, more efficient operation, Servel Electrolux gives you longer, more satisfactory service... Worthwhile savings year after year. Stop in and Inspect the 1937 Gas Refrigerator. MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY 36 South State Wasatch 1300 Easy Terms Serving 21 Utah Communities When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine This booklet will tell you why. It will tell you about opportunities in the field of business, and about the requirements of those who qualify for the better positions. It will tell about our courses, methods of study, rates of tuition, employment service, and other matters of interest to those who seek business training. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City All the details of apparel, stationery, etc., in her great adventure are of the utmost importance. Correctness and smartness are our watchwords in Wedding Stationery. See our smart new line. Prices $7.00 And up for 100 Wedding Invitations or Announcements. The Deseret News Press 29 Richards St. Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine PEACE BE WITH YOU May your life's sunset be filled with the peace of quiet waters; may there be no clouds of insecurity to mar the mellow beauty of your declining years: and may you face those years with the calm assurance that what you need will be provided. Consult your nearest Beneficial agent or write the home office. HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vol. XXIV AUGUST, 1937 ... Where aspiring young men and women train to be useful citizens, in social surroundings and physical environment that are ideal. CALENDAR for 1937-38 Freshmen Placement Test, Sept. 22; Registration of Freshmen, Sept. 23, 24; Registration of Sophomores, Sept. 25: Registration of Upper Division, Sept. 27; Regular Class Work Begins Sept. 28. Salt Lake City WRITE FOR CATALOG—ADDRESS. THE PRESIDENT When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah Service Above All SALT LAKE PROVO OGDEN — PRICE PAYSON MANTI Fruits Vegetables Markets CRYSTAL PALACE Meats 1st South at 3rd East—17th South at 5th East South Temple at 2nd East Home of.. "Famous Laddie Boy Bread and Danish Pastry" "We Feature" Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XXIV AUGUST, 1937 No. 8 CONTENTS Your Song......................................Sylvia Probst 473 Frontispiece—Monument To Sacagawea............................ 474 Poverty.................................Linda S. Fletcher 475 Motoring To Mexico.............................Ivy W. Stone 482 Reward.....................................Conrey Bryson 488 A Vest Pocket Tragedy..........................Elsie C. Carroll 489 The Life and Letters of John Galsworthy............Lois V. Hales 491 The Lotus Eater............................Mabel S. Harmer 494 Music Department..........................Lorin T. Wheelwright 498 Spanning a Century............................Alice R. Rich 501 Happenings...............................Annie Wells Cannon 504 Ferdinand's Strategy.................................J. S. 505 Side By Side...........................Linnie Fisher Robinson 510 Little Moments of Eternity..................Lella Marler Hoggan 511 The Work and Business Project................Donna D. Sorensen 513 Notes To The Field....................................... 516 Eliza Roxy Snow Memorial Contest............................ 517 When I Am Alone...........................Miriam C. Bitner 518 Editorials: Church Security................................ 519 Our Project......................................... 520 Phenomenal Growth................................... 520 Two Valuable Courses................................ 521 Let No Time Be Lost................................. 521 Anthem, Serve and Praise the Lord...........Lula Greene Richards 521 Lesson Department....................................... 522 Only A Smile.....................Josephine Gardner Moench 541 In Profound Appreciation of All My Misfortunes....Isaac B. Ball 542 Pioneer Mother..........................Grace Zenor Pratt 543 A Little Trip To Yellowstone Park..............Ida R. Alldredge 544 Our Pioneers..............................Ella J. Coulam 545 Answered...............................Fern J. B. Russon 546 To the Dregs..........................Eleanor Welch Schow 548 The Dust Storm........................Sadie Ollorton Clark 548 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 980 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. Everything to Furnish the Home GRANITE FURNITURE CO. Out of the High Rent District American Beauty Washers Round Oak Ranges Kelvinator Refrigerators Easiest in the World on Clothes America's Finest Longest Life Quality and Service Come First Murray Sugar House Park City The NATIONAL Special attention given to mail orders and out of town patrons The new manager is an active Relief Society teacher. She will appreciate your business "Keystone of a Career" Brigham Young University Believing that the most essential element for a happy and useful life is an active spirituality. The Church University stresses religious and character training. Yet a standard university education is likewise given. Excellent preparation is offered for scores of vocations and professions. APPLIED SCIENCE COMMERCE ARTS AND SCIENCES EDUCATION FINE ARTS REGISTRATION FOR Sixty-second Year Will Begin September 24, 25, 27 Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 224 East Sth South Five Colleges Wasatch 1835 1600 Courses FISHER'S Vitamin D BREAD Your Best Food Eat it this summer for sustained energy A product of the AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY The Big Home-Owned Bakery Relax With a Book In summer-time, read for pleasure. We have all the newest and best books in @FICTION @ BIOGRAPHY @ TRAVEL @HISTORY Write for Information Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah The World's Finest Recent price reductions made possible by volume production, and carload distribution, make Fairbanks-Morse stokers, now, more than ever before, the cheapest quality stoker available. Leading dealers everywhere handle Fairbanks-Morse stokers. GUARANTEED BY Good Housekeeping as advertised therein COAL STOKER FAIRBANKS-MORSE & CO. "ROYAL COAL COMPANY DISTRIBUTORS 817-822 Newhouse Bulaice Salt Lake City, Utah. ODELL GARFF, General Sales Manager When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Your Song By Sylvia Probst — Yesterday I walked through browning fields To bring our white Chrysanthemums to you. A wind beside me rattled in dead corn, And overhead some wild geese brushed the blue. ' How strange that all the restlessness I felt In Autumn's woods and fields and far-flung skies, Should make me think of something that I saw Once in the mystic blueness of your eyes. Nobody knew. Your hands grew rough and old Because of menial tasks throughout the years, But when pipe organs whispered soft refrains ~ Your eyes would ache with burning unshed tears. You made a paradise of common things When fate denied to you your great desire— The light of evening stars and tapers glimmering— Though in your heart there lived a smouldering fire. And yet my dearest dear, God must have known, Perhaps on heaven's street you've reached that goal, But no musician knew a lovelier song Than was the perfect music of your soul. And though for you there were no gilded ways, Though desolate and steep the road you trod, Your song, my dear, was so worthwhile to me Because of it I learned to know of God. MONUMENT TO SACAGAWEA IN THE PARK AT BISMARCK, N. D. Photograph by Risem, Bismarck. The (Relief Society Magazine Vou. XXIV AUGUST, 1937 No. 8 Poverty By Linda S. Fletcher HE setting sun was just jeweltinting the surrounding mountain ranges, when Mary Hamlin, astride a horse, drove a straggling herd of milk cows to the boarded corral and proceeded to milk them. There was a song on her lips and a look of shining happiness on her somewhat hard face, molded into lines of rebellious acceptance by life on this Utah-Arizona dry farm. Poverty had played havoc with her dreams, but it now seemed that her most cherished ambition was to be realized, and she forgot the disappointments she had known. There was peace on this isolated farm,—peace in the low murmur of the pines on the wooded upland where nestled the little gray house; and the evening calm seemed to emphasize the exultant song of the toiling woman. When the last scanty udder was empty, Mary carried the foaming pails to the little out-building where the separator stood. Of an oldfashioned make, it was distressingly hard to manipulate; but the woman seemed tireless this evening. The feeding of the persistently grunting swine completed the chores, and then Mary hurried into the house to prepare supper. From her well-filled cellar shelves, she selected some choice fig -preserves for the meal, and then she added several other dainties to the board. As she worked, she paused every now and then to listen at the door, and soon she was rewarded by hearing the sound of leisurely approaching wagon wheels. She hurried out to welcome her children. Her daughters, Norma and Elva, had been away all Summer, working at a hotel in a nearby town. Jim, the fourteen-year-old son, had been to bring them home. They were vivaciously glad to be back, greeting their mother affectionately, and praising the good things she had prepared for their supper. Mary's eyes glowed with pride as she gazed upon their fine, intelligent faces. It had been the dream of her life to educate her children well. Jim had completed the district school work the preceding Spring, and now all three were ready for high school. It was necessary that they go some miles to the college town to get their high-school training, and Mary had planned to go with them to keep house while they attended school. The girls had earned money for clothes and tuition; and Arthur Hamlin, the husband and father, was 476 now at Hurricane making arrangements to sell enough cattle to supply the money necessary for their other expenses. ARY proudly exhibited the stacks of quilts and table cloths she had made from "pieces" and flour sacks, all adorned with hand embroidery and fine stitches; and then she took the girls into the cellar to see the fruit she had put up for winter. "Would that Daddy were as much of a manager as you are, Mumsy," declared Elva, the sixteen-year-old daughter, as they surveyed their mother's handiwork. "Do you think he will sell the cattle?" Mary smiled. "He promised to let them go at any price." Then her face took on a look of determination that still had back of it a longing that was almost a prayer. "He has failed me so often,—but he can't fail us now. I couldn't bear it. This is the one dream I have had that must come true!" Merry hopefulness did not return until the girls were unpacking. They got out the dress materials and fashion magazines they had purchased, and indulged in an orgy of planning for their school wardrobes. Well they knew that their mother's clever fingers could reproduce any model that they chose. Was not their home beautiful with her needle-work —the embroidered curtains and counterpanes, table runners, cushions, rugs, all the product of her good taste and skill? T was late when Mary retired. She must have a last look at her girls who had left her dreaming over the magazines. As she stood looking at the picture they made in the soft radiance of the moonlight that entered through the open window— Elva's bright curls mingling with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Norma's darker tresses—a little voiceless prayer escaped her lips, “Help me to give them life's choicest gifts." THE next day, the Hamlin's set off for a picnic in the pines to which all the neighboring farmers were coming with their families. The good old community jollity that the Latter-day Saints are so expert in producing was the order of the day. Jim had brought his ukelele, and Norma and Elva sang all the new songs they knew. After the songs were over, Ralph Howe and his mother came over to greet the girls. The Howes were neighbors of the Hamlins, and the young people were soon eagerly engaged in comparing notes concerning the Summer's happenings and planning for the good times to come that Winter at school. Ralph had attended high school for two years, and they never tired of his stories of school life. The day of communal intercourse was over all too soon. At home the girls donned the customary overalls. Norma busied herself around the house, while Elva rode off to bring in the cows. '\s Elva reached the gate in the rear of the plodding ruminants, Ralph Hyde, who had driven over and had reached the gate at the same time, felt a quick thrill at her sweetness. "Funny I never noticed before what a sweet kid she is," he thought. With a laughing, "Allow me," he made an entrance for her charges, and then walked by her side to the house, his gay conversation awakening the girl's pretty laughter. Norma had finished setting the table and was now at the old-fashioned piano. The music she was coaxing from the lovingly cherished instrument POVERTY was so beautiful that it hushed the laughter of the boy and girl as they paused in the door-way. Mary Hamlin sat in a dream near her daughter, visioning the fulfilling of her hopes for her children. Norma played with a touch of genius. When the music ceased, Ralph applauded softly. "You play well, Norma; you will be a 'wow' at school!" When Jim entered with the milk and cream, Ralph ate supper with them; and then they all went driving with him out into the sweetness of the desert twilight. WHILE they were away, Arthur returned. He looked somewhat dejected, and squared his shoulders in moody defiance as he thought of Mary's sharp tongue. Well, there was little to tell. He busied himself, setting out some supper of which he partook in moody silence, furtively listening. When the family returned, after bidding Ralph goodnight at the gate, they found Arthur sitting in an armchair with his back to the door, reading. They stopped in the doorway when he did not turn around, all anxious to formulate an eager question, yet dreading a disappointing answer. But Mary had faced too many disappointments to make her wait long to hear what news her husband might. Bring. "Arthur, have you nothing to say to us?" Arthur, in his efforts to appear unconcerned, seemed brutally dogged. He answered without turning. "The buyer I went to see is taking only a limited number, and that at an absurdly low price. I won't let my steers go at the price he is paying." The girls and Jim seemed stunned. Mary, in an over-mastering rage, 477 rushed forward and seized her husband's arm. "Do you mean that you have failed me again? This is the end! Poverty! Poverty! How my life has been blighted by it!" She turned to the children who were gazing at her in alarmed and tearful wonder. "We will ask no more of your father. I will see that you go to school." Arthur made no plea. His apparent coldness cloaked a feeling of utter dejection as he realized how little anything he could say, any defense he might make, would alter his wife's decision. Out into the barn he went to throw himself on the fragrant hay and there combat the weight of sorrow he was too proud to show to anyone. "THE next few days Mary packed up her fruit and vegetables and her own and the children's belongings. Not many days were needed in which to complete her preparations for departure, and she did not prolong them. The little house looked bare enough when all her home touches were removed. Mary took down curtains, and packed up embroidered articles that decorated the rooms, only to put them back in their places with smarting eyes. She could not leave Arthur a despoiled home—not in that sense, anyway. One day as she was sorting papers at the desk, she found in one of the drawers a house plan she and Arthur had drawn up together when he had brought her, a happy, hopeful bride, to his farm. Vividly she recalled the first years together—her ambitious planning that they should buy up-to-date machinery and a better grade of cattle. But it seemed to her, Arthur had made no very determined effort to have her dreams come true. He had resented her 478 assumption of authority and superiority and had gone on making a failure of his operations. Mary had become shrewish in her revolt against the barrenness and defeat of life — They had drifted farther and farther apart; she could not turn back now. Arthur went about his work with apparent stolidity, but his lips often echoed the tortuous thoughts that found lodgment in his brain: "I must somehow prove to her that I am not worthless; I can't let her go, she is part of me!"—but the habit of restraint had become so strong within him that he did not believe that Mary's decision to go might be changed. WHEN at last Mary and the children were ready to leave with a loaded wagon, Arthur was somewhere out in the fields, and there were no goodbyes to say. The children, convinced by their mother's constant indictments that their silent, undemonstrative father was a hindrance to their progress, said no word but gazed their farewell to the farm in silent wistfulness. This mood was soon forgotten, however, in the beginning of what to them seemed boundless adventure. This was their chance to win success in ° the world about which their mother had told them so much. She had planned their future with them ever - since they had been old enough to be impressed with ideals. No one knew that the father, left behind, groaned in anguish of soul at his failure, and resolved then and there that he would do all in his power to redeem that failure. And the mother, no longer sustained by anger, found it hard to go out on her self-appointed way, for conscience whispered that she was not altogether guiltless. RELIEF SOCIETY | MAGAZINE RRIVED in the little college town that was their goal, Mary found, after much difficulty, a house that satisfied her ideas of a suitable place to live, and then advertised for boarders. This was the only way that appeared whereby she might earn the money for necessary expenses. Two boys came to her first, and before long four more boarders were added to her family. The winter was a long, hard one for Mary. So much housework to do, sewing for the girls to be managed, and the necessity for the most careful expenditure of the money she received from her boarders, in order that it might cover her expenses, all weighed heavily upon her. She felt amply repaid, however, when she went out to the dances and social gatherings of the college and noted how popular her children were, and how well they looked in their home-made clothes. Norma's teachers were delighted with her talent at the piano, and when, one day, Elva came home, excitedly bringing the news that she had won the principal part in the school play, Mary felt more than repaid for her long hours of toil. GPRIN G came early—as it does in that semi-tropical country — bringing with it the usual quota of tourists across the Arrowhead Trail; and Mary received an offer to act as housekeeper at the principal hotel. The girls could have jobs there, also, and there was work for Jim in the garage. ON the dry-farm, Arthur, urged on by his resolution to make good, at last waked to his opportunities. He recalled the practical improvements Mary had always urged him to make. With the help of Ralph, who was home as usual for the Summer and pitied the lone man POVERTY who was his neighbor—he was able to buy the tractor and threshing outfit that he needed, as well as some minor tools, and was encouraged to get rid of his profitless cattle. He again experienced a thrill of interest as he gained faith in himself. When fall came, crops had been so good that he was able to send a substantial check to his wife. He hoped that the mute proof of his endeavor to make good would win some kind approval of his efforts. Mary did not even open the letter. She could not trust herself to do so, though her better self pleaded with her to give her husband a chance to plead his cause. "T have put my hand to the plow; there is no turning back now until I have accomplished what I set out to do," she muttered as she returned the letter. Arthur was very much hurt by the return of his peace-offering, but still he could not give up hope. "Some day," he said half aloud to himself, as he went grimly forth to his work at the harvest. OUR years flew by in a maze of school joys and triumphs for the Hamlin children. But the years had not been so happy for Mary. Too much work had left her little leisure to enjoy. Norma had worked only one Summer at the Hotel and had then decided that housework was not good for her hands. Both Norma and Elva had been admitted to the companionship of girls who had every advantage that money could buy; and Mary found her every moment occupied with tasks for which her girls found no time—there was always a dress to press or some sewing for her to do when the hotel work was finished. How happy she was when they came home one day to tell her that 479 they had all been offered positions in a nearby school—Norma, as music teacher, Elva, as oral reading teacher, and Jim, as instructor in the manual-training department. "We can rent a pleasant cottage where I can keep house for us all," Mary planned. The joy made her forget how tired she was. NORMA was to play several numbers in a recital to be given a few weeks before the close of school. Mary was finishing the embroidery on the dainty gown for her to wear on the occasion, when the first blow fell. Jim came in from a chat with a tourist returning from the coast. "Mother, there is a chance for me to go to school on the coast, and become a good auto mechanic. It would not be for long, and you know I want to get on my own as soon as I can. What do you say to my going? It looks like a real chance to me." "Of course, you must go," she said. It would mean only a short postponement of the rest she had planned. On the night of the recital, a large crowd of tourists, on their way farther West, stopped for the night at the hotel. After dinner, when they questioned how one might spend the evening in such a quiet little town, the hotel manager suggested that they attend the recital at the College. And so fell the second blow. Norma's playing was a revelation of innate ability; and one of the tourists, a cultured Bostonian, sought out the girl and her mother after the recital to propose that Norma be sent to the Conservatory in Boston for further training. He offered her a scholarship. Norma was flushed with triumph and happiness, and Mary had not the heart to say one 480 word that would mar her daughter's joy. It was arranged that Norma should leave for Boston as soon as school was out. COMMENCEMENT came at last, with the usual round of gaiety for the young people; but Mary was kept busy every spare minute pressing finery and working on dainty hand-made, embroidered garments for Norma's Boston wardrobe. RALPH, who had been graduated two years before, came in, as was his usual custom, for the Commencement festivities. Mary noted, with a pang, how blushingly happy Elva was whenever he was near; but she stifled her uneasiness with the thought that the girl was yet so young. Tired, after her hard day, Mary went out on the vine-twined porch of the hotel to listen to the strains of music that floated from the Gymnasium building across the way, where the youth of the school were dancing. The soft, moonlit darkness made her tiredness slip away as she recalled her own school-days. Soon voices in the rose-garden, just beyond, became audible to her. Elva and Ralph had come from the dance, and Mary could hear the young man pleading: "But you won't make me wait, dear? I want you so much." And Elva, acquiescing: "If Mother says it is all right." Mary fought for composure, knowing that she must again submerge her longing for well-earned freedom and rest in furthering the happiness of another of her children. How selfish they were,—with the unconscious selfishness of youth that takes all with no thought of the sacrifice that its demands mean to those who have cherished it for so long! Mary hurried to her room and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pretended to be asleep when the girls came up. They were quiet in their dis-robing but whispered together of the happiness of the evening. The next day when Elva came with Ralph tor her blessing, Mary was quietly composed. "THE next few weeks were busy ones. Elva and Ralph were quietly married and slipped away to California for their honeymoon. Jim was glad to be off to his school, and Norma left for Boston in eager excitement. Then came loneliness for the mother. When the last child had left her, Mary's small savings were completely exhausted, and there was still the necessity of meeting Jim's expenses. Qne day, however, she received a letter from her boy which read: "Dear Mother:—Hurrah! Have just had a check from Dad, and he says I am to call on him for any funds I may need. Glad to be able to relieve you from the necessity of sending me the wherewithal to see me through—" Mary felt resentful and deserted. She had given her all to her children, and now they needed her no longer. Oh, the loneliness of those long evenings after toil that now seemed so futile! Ambition folded its wings and only sorrowful remorse filled her heart. "Ts it not always thus," she asked herself, "for those who have no companion to bear them company in the afternoon of life? What God has joined"—-had she not put asunder what God had joined? HE days went by somehow. Letters from the children were infrequent. At last she could bear her loneliness and remorse no longer. Acting almost sub-consciously, she told the hotel manager that she was going away for a few days—she was tired— POVERTY Mary flushed as she realized how eagerly she was returning to the place she had thought she never wanted to see again. But she must know how Arthur was faring and catch a glimpse of the old home once again. She bade the driver of the automobile whom she had hired to bring her out, to set her down some distance above her old home and then to wait for her in the shade of the pines. As she neared the gate, she was surprised to see, among the pines on the upland, a new house—the house of her dreams. She quickly drew herself behind a tree, as she saw Arthur and Mrs. Hyde coming from the building. There came the bitter thought that this was perhaps the reason why Arthur had so submissively accepted her absence. Anger, and something else, which she recognized with a flush of shame, flamed, as she saw how earnestly he listened to what his companion was saying. They both entered a car drawn up at the gate, and drove away in the direction of the Hyde farm. Mary's anger changed to submissive repentance as she watched them go. She had no claim on the stalwart man who lifted his head so proudly. The Arthur she remembered had been cowed by her sharp tongue, her unbelief, and her disloyalty. Tears of remorse forced themselves from her eyes as she realized that she had helped in his failure and had, in no way, aided in his success. When her grief had somewhat spent itself, she could not resist visiting, just once more, the spot that had been the scene of her early married happiness. She realized that Arthur was no doubt boarding at the Howe's and had, perhaps, gone there for luncheon. Yes, she would have a little time— 481 First she went to the little house in the rear that had long been her home. Here her children had been born in those happy days when she lived in dreams of what she would accomplish for them.—The house seemed to be deserted; the rooms were clean but bare. Then she drifted on into the new house, where a genuine surprise awaited her. The house was so conveniently and beautifully furnished. Her soul cried out in longing that here was a real home. On through the rooms she went, and into a sunny bedroom, with roses peeping in through the window. The room held a double bed; and, from the wall, a picture of herself smiled at Mary. He had not forgotten her, then? On the table near the bed was an open ledger. She glanced at it and these words met her eyes: '"Tomorrow I go for my Mary. Pray God she will want me." It was a diary. Mary fell on her knees, sobbing. "T thought I had poverty before, but this aloneness is the real poverty, poverty of the heart!" A step and a smothered ejaculation sounded near her, and she raised her eyes to see Arthur standing there, his arms open. With a stifled cry, she was in them, all her bitterness and loneliness forgotten in her great need of him. "Arthur, you want me, even after I failed you so?" she questioned, wonderingly. "We failed each other, Mary," Arthur replied quietly; "but thank God that we are to know the rest of life together. We will never fail each other again, I am sure." And Mary, confident in the strength of the new manhood that enfolded her, breathed softly: "Never again." Motoring To Mexico By Ivy W. Stone OULD you enjoy a trip ABROAD, without the expense of steamers and minus the hazard of seasickness? Would you like a vacation different in every respect from any that our United States can offer? Would you get a thrili from picking orchids and bananas and oranges in a virgin jungle, and have as a climax for such adventure the knowledge that the cost of the trip was not prohibitive—that it actually was NOT breaking your bank account? If you wish such an experience, turn southward into Mexico. Drive in your own car over the new Pan American Highway: see provincial Mexico as she has been since the. Days of Cortez; see the native jungle Indians as they have lived for centuries, and travel at your own pleasure, stopping when and where you feel the urge. If you enjoy sports, you may attend the fiestas in the large cities, where red flags wave, crowds become vociferous, and the matadores and toreadors are always successful. If you are studiously inclined, you will revel in the numerous attractions of the National Museum in Mexico City. You may wanider at will through numerous old cathedrals which Cortez and his followers built, and which are frequently lighted with alabaster domes, decorated with ornate altars of twentytwo carat gold, and whose gardens are luxuriant with rare tropical flowers and blossoming shrubbery. Many of these old churches are closed, and are rapidly falling prey to the elements and ravages of insects and time. TIME was when the Mexicans expended all of their surplus energy on revolutions. Uprisings and outbreaks, revolts and insurrections were the common and to-beexpected procedure. But ten years ago the Republic started a new conquest. The soldiers were peons, armed with shovels and machetes. The guns were road machines. A highway northward from Mexico City was constructed, the first big link in the proposed South American Highway, a road that linked Mexicans with their northern cousins of the United States. Less than a year ago the road was dedicated, and we of the United States were invited to come down as friends! "El Camino," as the highway is called by the natives, is a marvelous piece of roadwork. It is thirty feet wide on curves and twenty feet wide on the straightaway. All curves, underpasses, etc., are plainly marked. The deep sluggish rivers are beautifully bridged, and the mountain road has a six per cent grade which you can easily make in high gear. The road dips to only five hundred feet above sea level and rises to eighty-two hundred feet. It leads through tiny villages, manufacturing cities, sugar cane plantations, citrus orchards, fields of maguey plants and miles upon miles of virgin jungle. The response to the invitation was so overwhelming that for the moment the abilities of the hosts were over taxed. We did go down; we are still going down, and it is estimated that many more will go down in '37. Those who have been tell such glorious tales, display such marvelous MOTORING souvenirs, that Motoring To Mexico has become the slogan for the tourists of 1937. It is an exceedingly cheap trip. Gas stations are not competitive, and gas costs about the same as in the States. In the large cities, like Mexico City, Monterrey and Victoria, the motorists may designate a choice of two or three brands of gas; but out on the open highway, Gas is Gas, every motorist patronizes every station, grateful for a full tank. The local gas may give your car a little "knock, knock," but it does no harm, is all in the day's experience. EXCELLENT, English speaking guides may be obtained for about $2.50 per day. They are good TO MEXICO 483 drivers, are versed in Mexican history, and save you both time and money. Splendid hotels may be obtained for about $2.00 per day per couple, with meals ranging from 25c for breakfast to 75c for a six course evening dinner. Mexico is so colorful, so variegated, that no matter what your tastes, you are constantly diverted and enthralled. At the International Bridge over the Rio Grande River we were inspected by customs officials with long waxed mustachos and holstered pistols. They looked forbidding, but actually were genial, good natured and leisurely. Our luggage was inspected merely to ascertain that we were not smuggling narcotics, liquor or firearms. We had to establish proof that we actually owned the 1-THE FLOATING GARDENS OF XOCHIMILCO, 2—WASH DAY NEAR PUEBLA. 484 car; then for the nominal sum of $1.00 each and another for the car, we were given passports, entitling us to tour Mexico for a period of three months, for pleasure only. Mexico does not wish her northern cousins to enter into business down there, as they resent the exploitation of their natural resources by foreign capital. WITH a feeling of exhilaration we headed southward, over the longest straight piece of auto highway in the entire world—45 miles. We felt safe and secure in the knowledge that the car was in good condition, that we had two good spares, that we were vaccinated against small pox, inoculated for typhoid fever, had two gallon jugs filled with certified water, and that a twenty dollar green back had been changed into enough pesos to pay all expenses into Mexico City. What a Change! It did not seem possible that only a river separated two such widely divergent countries. Here the word "leisure" is always spelled in capital letters, and no one ever hurries; Ford trucks gave way to burros, shoes became a rarity, diverging roads became mere paths, women and girls balanced huge wooden trays on their heads, or staggered under the weight of water jugs. Little naked boys tended their goats on the roadside, unconscious of their nudity. Tiny burros trotted along, loaded with huge cargoes of hand-made chairs, pottery, charcoal, firewood or corn. Windowless huts of square cactus or palm thatches became commonplace. Gorgeous flowers surrounded every hut, while the family baby, pigs, chickens, burros and pet parrot shared the dooryard in pleasant comradarie. The jungle is thorny and resentful of trespassers, but lures the traveler RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with its flambuoyant flowers and colorful parrots. We soon realized that nature has provided all things with a means of protection, and that the jungle is no exception. Its thorns and density repel the animals which have to forage for a livelihood, and consequently all loose cattle, pigs, burros and horses turn to browse in the deep, sun-kissed barrow pits made by the recent road builders. Here the grass is sweet with no thorns or brambles. Thus these stray animals have come to accept the new highway as theirs by divine right. A burro browsing on-the left hand side of the road is very apt to nonchalantly jay walk across the road. Once there, he changes his mind, and at his own peculiarly slow pace he ainbles back again. The cattle are long horned and are apt to choose the middle of the new road as their resting place for the night. Thus the warning of the Mexican. Government to drive only in daylight is quite in order. The orchids of the jungle are parasites and may be found in season. The bougainvillaea, a tall flowering shrub, tosses its purple sprays of blossoms toward the poinsettias, which reach a height of twelve feet. The highway is nearly eight hundred imiles long, and in November of thirty-six, no Mexicans had thought to put up a road side stand to display their native wares! S° far, the tourists have been tolerant and patient, trying to avoid hitting any wandering animal. But whenever a stubborn animal has been the loser over a disputed right-ofway, the ever present turkey buzzard is always Johnny-on-the-spot to do his bit of sanitary regulations. Mexicans claim they need no garbage wagons, and so long as the turkey buzzards are protected, this claim is substantiated. The long necked, MOTORING bald headed, drab colored, ugly bird has remarkable eyesight, and is forever circling overhead, waiting, waiting, waiting! The instinct which tells him his vigilance is rewarded is uncanny. As we motored southward, we did not pass a single dead animal. Returning twelve days later, however, the carcasses of four burros were along the roadside, and the voracious buzzards were too engrossed in their occupation to note our passing car. Whenever I saw a dead burro, I thought of some sorrowful family, who had lost a treasured possession. For a burro is the peon's contact with the outside world. It is the family carriage, truck and carryall. Mexican Foods? Of course you may eat them, if you wish. After you leave Monterrey and until you reach Mexico City, it is difficult to obtain American foods, for the Mexican cooks, though most willing, have not yet learned the mild dishes which their northern cousins prefer. But the tourist should remember that a stomach which has been accustomed to little or no seasoning cannot suddenly adjust itself to highly spiced foods without protest. A traveling stomach is quite apt to become a temperamental stomach. You must decide for yourself if you are willing to forego the novelty of eating foreign, highly flavored foods or of running the risk of spending part of your valuable time in bed. Personally, I took my breakfast eggs soft boiled, instead of having them served "eggs rancherio," which means fried and floating in a deep red sauce! J was content to watch other diners gasp and reach for water as they swallowed the hot enchiladas tortillas, tamales, and the black coffee cooled with boiling milk! In the provinces the goat butter, home made, smelled as though it might TO MEXICO 485 have been stored in a pyramid. But in Mexico City, Sanborn's and Lady Baltimore serve as fine foods as the most epicurian could wish for. ALL Mexicans love their burros and their chickens; consequently even in the large cities there is a night long chorus. In the tropical large village or small town of Valles we slept in an excellent tourist camp operated by a Mexicanized native of Sweden. Other large hostelries were in process of construction. But the builder of today hesitates to invest overmuch, due to the strange law known as "expropriation," wherein the government may purchase your property at any time, and pay the owner only the assessed valuation! IN the Moctezuma mountains the skill of the young engineers met a real test. The road rises to a height of 8200 feet above sea level. It is safe, and wide, and was blasted from the solid rock of the mountains. Round and round it curves and winds, with many laps above you and many below you! Scarcely a day is free from fog, and the tourist watches eagerly for the rift in the low hanging vapor that he may see the vista of the endless mountain range. At the peak of the pass, we were fortunate in having the mists roll away and disclose the farm lands of the native Indians, tiny patches of cleared jungle on the south side of the densely covered mountains. Here, with endless toil, the natives have cut away the ever encroaching jungle and planted their corn, fully a mile above the river. Road crews and soldiers patrol the mountain road, ever watchful for the safety of the nation's guests. Retaining walls are being built, and the careful driver need have no qualms over safety. But as we rode along, secure THE PYRAMID OF THE SUN. A LITTLE SHEPHERD BOY. THE PALACE OF FINE ARTS. 486 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MOTORING in the luxury of a good car, we passed many an old cargadore (burden bearer) scantily clad, ofttimes barefooted, slowly making his way afoot, bent over with the weight of marketable goods which he would pack into Mexico City, fully fifty miles away! MOST old style Mexican homes are built with an austere plastered front facing the street, with the solitary door and two windows heavily barred. Thus they conceal their real beauty. But once within the walls, the visitor sees a welltended patio, with a well and tropical flowers. MOST tourists will find it convenient to establish hotel connections in Mexico City, to engage a guide and plan daily trips to the various points of interest. Days could be spent in the National Museum, if you have an archaeological turn of mind. You must not miss the opera, if only to see the famous glass curtain, installed by Tiffany. You must inspect the Bordia Gardens, where many rare tropical flora are nurtured. Diego Rivera murals, painted on the veranda of the old palace at Cuernavaca, are destined to become famous. The Pyramid of the Sun, second largest pyramid in the entire world, is only 27 miles from Mexico City. At Toluca you may see the sixty thousand Indians milling about on their market day; at Saltilla you may see the gorgeously hued serapes as they are woven from native wools. Taxco is charming, as it is the one city where the government insists the architecture shall adhere to the old style. The floating garden of Xochmilco will entice you with its canals, gondolas and flowers, and Chilula where Cortez built three hundred sixty TO MEXICO 487 churches is replete with old history. About ten miles north of Mexico City you will drive over the identical road which Cortez built. Flowers are everywhere! Orchids in corsages cost only 28c; gardenias fresh every morning for 3c; colorful markets, selling everything from beds to bananas, from spices to ground fish, and old auto tires for sandals! MEXICO CITY has thousands of beggars; every auto is a potential taxi. Every street corner has its vendor of tickets for the national lottery. The "Lotteria Nationcal'' they call it, and it is government controlled. Every purchaser knows that his money goes for the maintenance of schools and hospitals, and the odds are twelve to twenty that he will win something. In Chapultepec Castle the visitor may see the relics of the great and the dead; mementoes of epochal history, including the silver ink stand of the ill fated emperor Maxmilian I, and the solid gold wash bowl of his consort, who was later named the "Mad Carlotta." WE spent twelve days south of "the Rio Grande River, and traveled 3500 miles in Mexico. We ate and slept very comfortably; bought over fifty dollars worth of souvenirs, and did not spend over $250.00. It was the cheapest and the most enjoyable trip we have ever taken. We were not robbed or cheated. Our hosts were courteous, obliging,- genial and patient. The manager of our hotel even permitted us to pay our bill with a check drawn on our local American bank! "THs new highway will link the two Americas. It is conducive to understanding, tolerance and good will. We, as a nation, will soon realize that while Mexican ways are 488 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not our ways, they are still good ways. We must learn that Mexico does not wish to become a carbon copy of our machine controlled civilization. They have a civilization of their own which they honor and desire to maintain. WE left with regrets, wishing that we might acquire the siesta habit. How we longed that custom would permit us to "shut up shop" in the middle of the day, ing to our United States we had to satisfy our own customs officials that we carried no plant life of any kind, not even an orange, banana or a cotton boll; that we did not have a green parrot or a baby anteater tucked into a dark corner, and that we were vaccinated against smallpox! Each one of us was permitted to bring in one hundred dollars worth of souvenirs duty free. Happy carefree Mexico, we will and take a three hour rest. Returnyet return! REWARD By Conrey Bryson The trail is steep and filled with stones. A bold man climbs it, breathing hard. He gains the top, and there he moans, And grumbling, waits for his reward. A carefree youth comes up the trail And stops to pass the time of day, "What, no reward? How could you fail To find reward along the way?" I stopped to watch a gentle fawn That drank from this clear laughing brook. I watched an eagle soaring on. I stopped again to better look At ferns upon a bed of moss. I watched the squirrels in the trees. A clumsy bear then walked across The path, to rob the honey bees. I watched the fleeting lizard dart Among the rocks and up the crag. I almost heard the noble heart That fluttered in a frightened stag. All these I found beside the way, The way you found was long and hard; But look, a sunset crowns your day, And even yet, you have reward! A Vest Pocket Tragedy By Elsie C. Carroll RANK'S grey suit which she had been going to sponge and press, slipped from Peggy's arms, as with a little gasping sob she took in the significance of the note she had found in the vest pocket. "Frank, old Pal, "T can't let you slip out of my life after all the days and nights we've spent together. I shall be in Tremonton Thursday on the 11:15. Can't we arrange a little'trip such as we used to take—off by ourselves? There are things I must talk over with you. "Don't fail me. "Yours as of old, "Jen." Peggy knew she must be dreaming. Such a thing couldn't happen to her! And yet there it was—a letter to her husband from another woman, suggestively intimate, asking him to meet her. She felt cold and hot and smothering all at once. The old, old tragedy shattering her life—and less than two months after her wedding day. Her first impulse was to call the office and ask Frank to come home. Yet could there be an explanation to a note like that? Besides, she suddenly remembered, Frank wasn't at the office. He had told her he might have to go over to Thurston to finish up a deal his employer had left when he had been called to Chicago, and a little before noon just as she had returned from the corner grocery, the office girl had called to say that Mr. Demming had tried to get her before he left, and that he would not be home until late in the evening. "T shall be in Tremonton at 11:15 on Thursday." O, it was all too plain. They were off on their little trip now. Peggy wanted to scream as she threw herself upon the yellow and orchid bed and gave herself up to hysterical weeping. Through her tortured mind raced story after story she had heard or read, of other deceived women. The magazines and movies were full of them. And so was life. There had been her own Aunt Deborah, never dreaming of her Uncle Peter's interest in his stenographer until it had developed into a crisis after long years of deception. And there was Florence McCormick who had been so sure of Jim's love and loyalty that she; wouldn't even believe that odious woman who had stolen him from her, until Jim himself confessed his faithlessness. But Frank! And he had seemed especially dear when he had kissed her goodbye this very morning—holding her as though he would never let her go and telling her how sweet and absolutely perfect she was. And all the time—this letter there in his pocket—and him knowing he was going to meet this other woman. Peggy sat up and tried to think what she should do. There was only one thing of course. She must go away. But the thought of going home was intolerable—the humiliation after all her ravings about Frank's perfections. She had painted for her folks their life and love as a paradise of bliss. She couldn't go to some big city and find a job for she'd had no ex- 490 perience; she had no references; she had only a few dollars. She went for her purse and found that the exact amount it contained was $10.87. In her desperation she thought of Cousin Letitia. She could get to Granger for $7.10. Letitia would be surprised, of course, but it would give her time to think, to plan. The tightness in her throat felt like a burning band. Her head was throbbing. She wished she could die. She went about all afternoon in a tortured daze, doing the things that needed to be done in the apartment; washing out things she would need to take with her. As she was getting out of the bath, the clock struck eight and she realized that the next train south would not leave until 11:43. She wanted to get away as soon as possible, but she still had her bag to pack and her farewell note to write to Frank. All afternoon she had been trying * to think what she should put in that note. At last she sat down at the little mahogany -desk and took out some stationery. A flood of memories swept over her as she recalled the day she and Frank had selected the desk at Lannin's. A month ago— and now the end. In one of the drawers were Frank's letters—one for each day of that month after graduation before their marriage. Bitterly she wondered if he had been writing to this girl Jen at the same time. Probably she had been right there in Kemmerer with him — "Their glorious nights." Page after page Peggy wrote and tore into shreds. The coo-coo clock, Frank's birthday gift, struck nine, then ten, then half past. She must get away before Frank returned— if he should come before morning. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The girl at the office had said he would be late. In desperation Peggy finally wrote a single line—'This will explain why I have gone away," and placed it with the letter she had found in his pocket on the yellow and orchid bed. She would go to the station at once; she couldn't bear the sight of all the intimate things that reminded her of her lost happiness. She put on her hat and coat and switched off the bedroom light. She reached for her bag which she thought she had placed on a chair by the window. It wasn't there. She must have taken it to the entrance hall when she had gone for her scarf. In the darkness she started for the living room. 'Her heart stopped beating as she heard a key in the lock. The door opened and light flooded the room as Frank's voice boomed: "Why, you're all ready! You must be a little mind-reader! I've been hurrying my head off to get back so we could go to the station. I couldn't even remember that I had told you that Jen was coming." He had given her a tight embrace and a quick warm kiss as he was speaking. "But what—who—?" "The note I got yesterday from Jenkins Mallory, my old war buddy. He'll be here on the 11:15 and we must have him up. You'll fall for old Jen like a million dollars. Come on, honey, we'll have to hurry. I didn't even turn the ignition off Lizzie." "O—all right—but—I—I—must get—a—handkerchief." In the tiny bedroom three swift movements sent a traveling bag skidding under the bed, a crumpled sheet of paper into the wastebasket, and a note to the vest pocket of a grey suit. The Life and Letters of John Galsworthy By Lais V. Hales hours of January 3ist, 1933, England and the world experienced a great loss. John Galsworthy, who on Nov. 10th, 1932, had been awarded the Nobel Prize for literature, passed quietly and unknowingly away at his beloved home, Grove Lodge, England. Memorial Service was held on February 9th in Westminster Abbey and on March 28th, at the top of Bury Hill, far. From the road, his ashes were scattered upon the sunbaked turf near the gorse-fragrant hedge, according to his bidding in his poem, Scatter My Ashes! YEARS ago in the early ALSWORTHY lived richly in his sixty-five years. In surroundings, of which the keynotes were health, beauty, and sanity, he spent a pleasant, wholesome, and unspectacular boyhood. He early made himself short-sighted by too much reading. In school he was nicknamed "Peace" because of his reserve and pleasant aloofness. His father was his idol. Ill health of his mother deprived him of her companionship but he wrote many tender, charming letters to her while away at school. "I loved my mother; she loved me," he has recorded in his diary. DURING his few brief years at Oxford his fondness for wandering about at night in the poorer districts, listening to the conversations of the poor, was the first inkling that he was no ordinary boy. I suppose he was even then gathering material for his knowledge of mankind. In 1890, to get away from 'the gift of writing. An unfortunate love affair he sailed for Africa. It was on this eventful voyage that he met Joseph Conrad. A lifelong friendship resulted. In one of his letters, about this time, Galsworthy writes: ''I do wish I had I think that is the nicest way of making money, only it isn't really the writing so much as the thoughts that one wants. What is a good thing to quicken the sympathies?" An incident which was to quicken, more than any other event in his life, his sympathies, took place on the last day of April, 1891, when his first cousin, Arthur, married Ada Cooper. This marriage was a tragic mistake. Blameless and helpless she lived in extreme unhappiness. First through chivalry and compassion Galsworthy was attracted to her. In 1895 she said to him: "Why don't you write? You're just the person." By this and other steps they were drawn together. Not until 1905 did Ada and Galsworthy marry. Those years between were frightful to them both. It was a love which tried Galsworthy as in a fire, and yet yielded him the greatest happiness that man can know; a love which was the shaping and the making of his life. Galsworthy learned at first hand the frightfulness of a loveless marriage. Those years left an indelible mark upon his life. No wonder that so much of his work deals with love, marriage, tenderness, companionship. Never did two people love each other more, nor with better cause. Their communion endured unshaken to the end. At one time he wrote—"I am probably the most happily married man in Eng- 492 land." His Forsyte Saga, which is a study of love at its best and worst, he dedicated to his wife—'the dearest and most lovely companion." Ada Galsworthy, by her share in them "halved his sorrows and redoubled his joys." FoR eleven years Galsworthy wrote and made not one penny. Those were years of reflection, meditation, searching of heart and mind, unbroken aspiration. Then in 1906 appeared that most beautiful book, The Man of Property (the beginning of The Forsyte Saga). It had taken him three years to write it. With it his name was made and his income commenced. Written here, there, everywhere, the most scattered of his books, it is his most poignant one. In answer to a woman who questioned him as to his object in writing, he wrote—"My object is only that of expressing my philosophy and my philosophy is merely a belief that if we all understood and tolerated each other a little more than we do the world would be a happier place to live in." During the next six years Galsworthy wrote plays, novels, poetry, short stories, always with this object back of them. IN 1912 he and Ada visited the United States. New York City and the Grand Canyon they appreciated. With the lengthening of their visit here they failed to sail, as they had intended, on the Titanic on its fatal voyage. They returned in 1919. Galsworthy lectured very successfully realizing a profit of $4000. This he handed over gracefully to his publishers—Scribners — for Armenian and Syrian relief. Again in 1931, for the last time, they visited here. It was after this last visit that Galsworthy wrote to a friend—"I never feel happy lecturing." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE DURING the years of the World War Galsworthy suffered deeply. His fertile imagination magnified his suffering. Even before the war he had made it a rule to live on half of his salary and give the rest away. But from nothing published during the war did he personally profit one penny; it was all given away among an amazingly wide array of charities. The war, spun out, constant writing, the heavy administrative responsibility of the P. E. N. Club made of John Galsworthy a tired man at the beginning of the year 1921. He said he was tired. The sands were running out. 1922 found him a "best-seller." He had written his most beautiful short story, The Appletree, and was ready to start on his End of the Chapter. He was corresponding with Thomas Hardy, John Masefield, G. B. Shaw, Conrad, and often _ enjoying their presence in his beloved home. For him "home life was in the true sense a private matter; and so comparatively few knew more of him than that he had perfect manners and a kind heart. Many thought him a cold creature. For it was only with a few intimates that the essential warmth of Galsworthy's nature shone through his gravity, that the tender, almost caressing quality of his affection was made manifest." By 1926 he was lecturing too much for the good of his health. By 1927 honors were coming to him with great frequency. H. V. Marrot in his book on Galsworthy quotes from a letter of Granville Barker's written to Galsworthy, "No one wears honours with more unconscious grace than do you." THE next ten years Galsworthy spent reading, writing, playing tennis (in which he was far too great THE LIFE AND LETTERS an individualist ever to play doubles really well) horse-back riding, traveling, always giving generously of his time and money. He and Ada were particularly happy in assisting the numerous members of the Galsworthy clan. While Galsworthy wrote, Ada, "the scent and the colour and the shape of his life," would work among her flowers. She filled the highest function of all in bringing beauty into Galsworthy's life but she helped him in many other ways. For thirty years she was his secretary. Galsworthy's letters, kindly, encouraging, honest and interesting pay many tributes to Ada. In one he writes—'I think of her sometimes as a piece of rare silk, with a bloom on it as delicate as that on grapes, but which you can't rub off."" Yes— the years between 1922-1932 were happy ideal years for them both. N November, 1932, Galsworthy received the Nobel Literature Prize. The Prize money—something over 9000 pounds—he made a Trust Fund for the benefit of the P. E. N. Club with its Centres in thirty-five different countries. About the same time he made his final living appearance before the public with his novel, Flowering Wilderness. After this the shadows began closing in fast about him. Slight ailments which he had long resolutely ignored began to appear more markedly. Then came the day when he remarked: "You had better look at me well now, because it's the last time you'll ever OF JOHN GALSWORTHY 493 see me quite well again." He was right. Everything seemed just a little more difficult to do. Gradually he became confined to his room and then to his bed. His nephew records: "Not one word or gesture of complaint did he ever show through all the indignities of the sick room. He just looks, and looks, and looks." His last conscious contact with the world was to gently caress the sorrowful face of Ada. Of his death H. V. Marrot says: "One rebels at the thought that such a man, with so much yet to give, with so much service yet to do, should thus untimely be swept away, that one whose life of mercy more than most had deserved mercy at the hands of Life, should have died as he did. But he outlived neither his art nor his love. His last conscious moments were brightened and made sweet by his beloved Ada. Instead of protesting against Life let us find a source of pride in his career, and encouragement in his example. None that ever knew him can lose him from their hearts while they live: and, in the time that must come, when none are left who looked into his face, who heard his voice, who touched his hand, when this poor record is all that remains to conjure up the living man he was, his works —so like himself—will still endure to speak for him. Alike for us and for future generations there abides, a strength and a refreshment, the beauty that he made in all his writings as in all his life." The Lotus Eater By Mabel S. Harmer CHAPTER III THE long Wyoming winter which Helen had once dreaded sped rapidly away, especially after she had become engaged to Dan. They had made up their minds to be married late in May just after school was out. Dan was going to Omaha to buy some thoroughbred sheep at that time and they decided that they could make a honeymoon out of the trip as well. Helen would have loved to have been married at home but the trip was an expensive one and they needed their "cash on hand" for the beginnings of a home. The trip to California could come later. "Are you quite sure that you don't want to go home first, honey?" Dan had asked her for perhaps the tenth time one evening. "Quite sure,' Helen answered. "I can use the money to much better advantage for linens and such. I'm going to have everything nice even if Idoliveonaranch. Do you want me to go?" she added teasingly. Dan looked down at her with his dark eyes very serious as he answered, "I just want you to be very sure about all this, my dear, and I thought that if you went home first you would know that you weren't making any mistakes. Besides," he added in lighter mood, "where do you think you are going to buy a lot of fancy linens—in Bevers General Store or from the mail order catalogue?" "Neither one,' she answered laughingly. "I'll buy them in Omaha. Ill shop for towels and tablecloths while you shop for lambs." Helen herself wondered occasionally if she were really afraid to go home for fear it might make her want to change her mind about her marriage. At timesa faint dread entered her heart when she thought of spending the rest of her life out in this country where there were so few of the more sophisticated gayeties of life: no concerts, no shows except the movies, no large stores in which to buy modish dresses, not even a library. When she was with Dan, however, all doubts vanished. He was so strong, so genuine and so handsome, even if he did lack the veneer the city sometimes gives. Above all, he was devoted to her and she loved him so much that the pleasures of. City life paled into insignificance beside that love. THE had written home and had her mother send her a pretty blue crepe dress to be married in. "Married in blue, always be true," she quoted gaily as she tried it on and went down to show it for Mrs. Riley's admiration. "That looks just grand, dearie," was Mrs. Riley's comment, "especially with your yellow hair, but I did sort of hope that you'd have a white dress and a veil." "Well, every girl dreams of being married in a white satin dress and veil, I suppose," said Helen, "but I thought being away from home and all—I'd rather not." "T guess you're right," answered Mrs. Riley with a sigh, "but we never had a wedding in the house before and I would have liked to have it right fancy. Anyway, I'm THE LOTUS EATER going to cook you a nice weddin' dinner and have a bride and groom on the table like I read about in the papers." "That will be lovely of you," said Helen, giving Mrs. Riley a hearty hug, ''and you can dress up the bride for the table as much as you like." HE wedding took place at Mrs. Riley's on a morning late in May. It was still like early spring in Wyoming and Helen was sure that there had never been a more beautiful morning upon the earth, that the ground had never worn a more delicate covering of green and that never had more fragrant breezes played about. Mrs. Riley had yearned to invite a crowd and make a gala affair of it but Helen had insisted that the guests be limited to Dan's family and her two fellow teachers. She had heard something of the pranks which the young people of the town thought appropriate for weddings and she was determined that the sacredness of her own should not be marred. In one last attempt to preserve the time honored traditions of marriage, Mrs. Riley had tried to persuade Helen that she should stay in her own room and not see the bridegroom until the minute before the ceremony but as soon as she heard Dan's step on the porch, Helen flew downstairs and let him in herself. Dan was apparently almost speechless, either from joy or excitement, but he managed to say as he handed her a huge cardboard box, "Here's something for a bride." Helen opened it eagerly and uttered a cry of joy as she lifted up a lovely bouquet of roses. "Oh Dan!" she gasped, "how gorgeous! How in the world did you do it?" "I just took some of those fellows 495 at their word that advertise they'll send flowers by wire and by George, they did," he answered visibly filled with pride, and then added softly, "I was determined that my bride should have flowers." "Your bride has everything," said Helen as she lifted her face for his kiss. LATE that evening they boarded the train at Junction City for Omaha. Dan's younger brother had driven them out in his car from Medford after Mrs. Riley's elaborate wedding "dinner" was over. Helen settled back in her seat and smiled dreamily as they drew away from the station. She thought of the time, such a few months away when she had last stood on the little board platform in front of the station. The whole course of her existence had been changed in that time and she was starting out upon the greatest adventure she would ever know during her life. "It's up to me," she thought, lifting her head unconsciously, "I can make a success of it, if I try." "Do I have anything that would buy those thoughts?' asked Dan, reaching for the small hand that now held a slender gold band beside the engagement ring. "I was just thinking what a remarkable prophet old Billy is," she said in mock seriousness. "Old Billy?" he asked puzzled. "Yes. You know, he brought me out to Medford in his truck when I first came to Wyoming and he assured me then that I would marry one of the boys and settle down in the valley." "Nice fellow, Billy,' said Dan complacently, "T'll buy him a present in Omaha." Helen and Dan found much besides a present for Billy to buy in 496 Omaha. In fact, Dan complained that their honeymoon was_ being turned into a regular shopping spree and that they would have to move out into the hallway of the hotel if Helen didn't stop bringing home stuff from the stores. Helen only laughed and brought forth more new things to show him. She hadn't realized how she had hungered to walk up and down the aisles of a real store. Besides, she was buying for her own home and what bride doesn't thrill to the joyous tasks of choosing those first new things? "This will make a pretty gay dress, won't it, old lady?" asked Dar as he held up a piece of bright flowered cretonne. "Dress, you goose!" laughed Helen, "that is for curtains and so is this and this," picking out dainty pieces of figured scrim. "Isn't all this rather fancy for an old ranch house?" asked Dan rather dubiously. "All the more reason for trying to brighten it up,' answered Helen gaily. "I get kind of scared when I think of taking you out to that old Livingston ranch to live," said Dan, still serious, "but it was absolutely the only thing I could get." "I know. Don't you worry about it. We'll make it do nicely for the time being," and Helen gave his arm an encouraging pat. "And what might these be?" asked Dan, picking up some bits of embroidered linen. "Guest towels for the bathroom, of course. Aren't they pretty?" "They're pretty, all right," admitted Dan, "but there isn't any bathroom." Helen's gay spirits were momentarily dampened but she soon brightened and said as she folded up the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE towels, "Well, then, we'll hang them in the kitchen or save them until we do get a bathroom. There'll be one some day, won't there?" "There'll be everything some day for the sweetest girl in the world," he whispered as he held her close. The happy week came to a close all too soon and Helen packed "the fruits of her schoolteaching" as she called her purchases and she and Dan celebrated their last evening in town by going to the best theatre they could find. HE next morning Helen found herself on the train, all alone, bound for home. It had been necessary for Dan to go on the train that carried the sheep so that he could take care of them and Helen had chided him laughingly for leaving her to spend the last half of her honeymoon by herself. She found the flat plains of Ne-. Braska wholly uninteresting and instead of looking at them she fell to daydreaming about her future home. She smiled when she thought of Dan's misgivings about her. Her own family, too, had been rather skeptical and had urged her "'to wait until fall, at least, and think things over." That, of course, was only because they didn't know Dan, she thought complacently. When they met him they would understand that she couldn't possibly have helped falling in love with him. And she would show them all that her marriage could be just as successful as that of the most comfortably situated bride in California. AT Junction City Helen left the train and went to an hotel to wait for Dan whose train was arriving some hours later. When he finally came he urged Helen to take the 'mail' car and go on to Medford THE LOTUS EATER ahead of him but she stoutly refused to finish her honeymoon out alone and insisted that she be allowed to come along with Dan. "All right, Bo-Peep," he finally agreed, " but you will find that riding with a truckload of sheep is not the quickest or the most pleasant way of getting through this canyon." After the first twenty miles she was very much inclined to agree with Dan. The truck lurched and swung. The driver's seat was too high up for her to sit comfortably and there was no top to protect her from the sun. Because of frequent storms in the mountains the roads never completely dried up and more than once, when they jolted over a deep rut or hole in the road, she was afraid that she and the sheep were going to land in a pile at the bottom of the canyon but through some kind fate the worst never happened and they came into Medford just as dusk was falling. "I'd better take time out to stop in at the store and get a few groceries, honey," said Dan, as they drove into town. '"'There's not a thing out to the ranch to eat. Want to come in with me?" "No thank you," answered Helen. "Just pick up anything so that we can hurry along home.' The thoughts of buying groceries rather appalled her when she realized her lack of experience along that line. She wanted a little time to get her bearings before she started in, especially if Jo Bevers happened to be in the store. He had never quite forgiven her for choosing Dan in preference to himself and always made an attempt to strut his superiority. Dan came out presently with a well-filled box which he placed at her feet and then climbed into the truck and drove on. 497 THE ranch which Dan had started to buy was about five miles out of town. There was a four room frame house built precisely like a cardboard box with an utter lack of imagination. Helen had been out there only once and had disliked almost everything about the place including the furniture, but she had promised herself that she would soon have everything different. She would paint every foot of it herself, if need be, and brighten it up with new curtains and cushions. In time she would have new furniture and even a new home, eventually. Dan had said so himself. I was dark when they reached the ranch house and Helen was thoroughly chilled from riding out in the open for so many hours. She walked numbly into the house after Dan who was carrying the box of groceries. He set them down on the kitchen table and lighted the gas lamps. "I’ll get some kindlings and you can make a fire and get some supper while I take care of the sheep," said Dan. "These thoroughbreds have to be handled just so, you know." Helen didn't know and she didn't care. She was decidedly weary of sheep mixed in with a honeymoon. She was also cold and hungry, however, so she found an apron and set about making a fire in the kitchen range. Her months of struggling with the little black heater in her room at Mrs. Riley's did not seem to be of any particular help now. The range was balky and smoked no matter what draughts she opened or closed. She finally left the fire to burn or smoke as it chose and began pulling things out of the box to see what would be the most easily prepared for supper. There were eggs—that would be 498 simple—and a piece of bacon. Why in the world wasn't it sliced? She found a knife that proved to be none too sharp and cut the bacon into thick jagged slices. She put it into a pan to fry over the still indifferent fire and started to set the table. Her own dishes had not arrived yet and there were only a few ugly, badly cracked ones left in the cupboard. There was no table cloth so Helen washed off the dust of many RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE weeks from the table as best she could before setting it. The bacon and eggs were ready long before Dan came in again, so Helen sat down by the fire to get warm. She had never imagined that a June night could be so cold even in Wyoming. She looked around the kitchen. It was dirty and cheerless in the light of the gas lamp. Tears filled her eyes which were not caused entirely by the smoking stove. (To be continued) Music Department ESSENTIALS OF GOOD CHORAL DIRECTING IN THE CHURCH SERVICE A Talk Delivered to the Choristers' and Organists' Section of the Relief Society during the April Conference b y Lorin F. Wheelwright, Supervisor of Music, Salt Lake City Public Schools NE splendid quality of the Relief Society and one that is - not often mentioned is its excellent influence on the young people of the Church who as babes in arms accompany their mothers to the weekly Tuesday meetings. I could never claim an active membership in the Relief Society but I can claim a regular attendance for a period of five years. Having a mother who has been on the Mt. Ogden Stake Board during the past seventeen years, I think I can still claim an honorary membership. Through this close contact I know how zealously the members of your organization attack the vital problems of life. I wish to speak today on one of these problems, namely, the development of spirituality through worshipful music; and I wish to concentrate on the function of the choral director in the church service. There are four points I would like to develop. The first one is this: the Church wishes for worship IN music but not for worship OF music. This means that our first object is the worship of God. Therefore the mere beauty of a piece of music does not justify its use. It must be appropriate. An art song, such as "I Love You Truly" is undoubtedly a beautiful piece of music but it could hardly be classed as worshipful music. The following questions might be asked in regard to any church service to aid in the selection of appropriate music. A. What is the dominant theme of the meeting? The theme may vary considerably from the various topics of the literary lessons which might call for music employing the writings of certain authors to more highly religious themes dealing with theology. B. Do the hymns, solos, and choruses appropriately fit the main theme? If the service is the Tuesday Re- MUSIC DEPARTMENT lief Society meeting and the lesson theme concerns the home, it is quite obvious that the music should concern the home. However, a mere subject appeal is not sufficient. The music in text and melody should engender the spirit of warmth and congeniality characteristic of the L. D. S. Home. This is best achieved through music which does not emphasize the love motive ordinarily. Characteristic of the secular love song, but rather such a selection as "Love at Home," or "Our Mountain Home So Dear." Both of these songs possess the beauty of music and text which might express the 'dominant theme. C. Is the sequence of selections arranged according to a_ sensible plan? Every program should have some form of organization. It might be the development of mood, or the development of a chronology, or the development of associated topics. Whatever plan best fits the theme should be followed in the musical selections as well as in the talks and the discussions. A very humorous example of an incongruity of the various parts of the service is this one given by Mr. Gehrkens in his book, 'Essentials of Conducting" (published by Oliver Ditson Company). 'During the first year of the great war a choir had just finished an anthem written by an English composer as a prayer for peace, the concluding strains being sung to the words, 'Give peace, O God, Give peace again. Amen!' As the choir sat down after an effective rendition there was a hush in the congregation showing that the message of the music had gone home to the hearers, but a moment later the spell was broken as the speaker arose and in a stentorian voice proclaimed the text of the day, 'For I come not 499 to bring peace unto the world but a sword,' " d. Are the selections to be sung or played of such a character that they may be sincerely expressed? A careful reading of the text by the director in advance of the meeting will often be sufficient to eliminate the cheap and the trivial. If it is too silly to be spoken, why sing it? If the text has fine literary value and the musical setting is appropriate, singing can enhance its effectiveness. The second point I wish to emphasize is this, a musical organization will advance just as far as the leader can take it and no further. It has often been demonstrated in the na-- tional band and orchestra contests that the finest organizations usually come from the least expected sources. Invariably the superiority of the organization can be traced to the superior leadership rather than to superior talent. The chief characteristics of this leadership may be expressed in four qualities as follows: a. Scholarly approach to the problems of musicianship, which implies that the director is always primarily a student of good music. B. Confidence in one's own ability, which is. Usually evident in the directness of approach and the tenacity to fine standards. C. Clearness of speech and expression, which necessitates wellformulated ideas effectively spoken. D. A loving care for the thing being done—a quality that inspires supreme loyalty on the part of organizations. It is this aspect of devotion to beautiful music together with willing workers, which knits an organization into an effective whole. The third point I wish to mention is this: Worshipful music flourishes best when audience, conductor, and 500 organist are ready to pursue a joint enterprise. To accomplish this it is necessary that: a. The musical planned in advance. B. Books be in the hands of all those who are to sing. C. Numbers be announced distinctly and the verses to be sung be clearly stated. D. If interludes are to be used, the audience, conductor and organist should know ahead of time. E. The length and type of introduction should be determined. F. A key note should be clearly sounded before actual singing begins (the beginning phrase). G. The singing group should stand together. The fourth point and the most important one for the musical director is this: The effective conductor must be a musical craftsman who knows the tricks of his trade. The essential problem of good directing is one of communication. The musical conductor exists only for the purpose of exerting leadership in the execution of a musical enterprise and that enterprise in our particular case is the expression of choral music. In a sense the conductor's position embodies a generalship in which ideas must be conveyed from a central source to a participating body. The principal means of this communication is the use of gesture. It cannot in any sense be confined to baton technique. I would like to speak, therefore, on several phases of this communication which are essential to effective leadership. A. The posture of the conductor must express alertness and purpose. He must be "on his toes" in the sense that he embodies a perfect example of good singing position. This means that one foot is probably slightly to the front, that his weight program be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is well balanced, that "'his ears are up" (straight spine, controlled diaphragm, head in line with body, avoiding any protrudance of the chin). - b. The facial expression should portray an inner feeling of readiness to act. During the actual singing the conductor's countenance should anticipate the changing moods of the music and suggest to the audience what is in store. C. Hands, arms and baton should be used with freedom and economy of movement. The preparatory beat is decisive; the indications of dynamics are consistent; the tempos are clearly defined; the holds and releases are definite; and the beats of the measure are indicated by a consistent pattern which always gives the first pulsation a decisive down stroke. Mannerisms, such as bending of knees, holding the baton crooked, beating time entirely on the right side of the body instead of the center, continual use of the left hand and angularity and monotony of beat pattern, must be religiously avoided. Every conductor should get before a full length mirror and study his own idiosyncrasies.- The finest way in the world to improve one's style oi directing is to '"'see yourself as others see you." d. The text should be memorized by the conductor, so that full attention can be given to an adequate interpretation of the words through appropriate gesture. Rarely should the conductor sing with the group because he can listen more carefully and guide the performance better when his attention is not placed in his own singing. Good conductors often appear to be singing when conducting a congregation because they "mouth" the words. In reality they are merely giving the cues for the text without vocalization. It is MUSIC DEPARTMENT extremely dangerous to sing while conducting special choruses because the director's whole attention must be focused on the response of his group and means for varying that response. We might summarize this discussion by the generalization that the best conductors are the ones who are easiest to follow, because they select music suitable to the occasion, they possess the personal qualities of superior leadership, they prepare all details in advance, and they communicate their ideas to the perform- 501 ing organization through significant and appropriate gestures. The reward of this kind of musical leadership in worshipful music can best be expressed in the words of Longfellow's poem "The Arrow and the Song." Note: Any choral directors who desire help in selecting anthems and choruses should contact the Church Music Committee, 50 North Main Street, Salt Lake City. Carefully graded lists of effective materials are now available. Spanning a Century By Alice R. Rich OMETIMES while searching S in our garden for late blooms we are surprised to find, sheltered among the heavy foliage, a rare flower with all the strength and beauty of the earlier summer time. Sometimes, too, while re-reading a choice piece of literature, a favorite chapter in scripture or an oft read poem, we find a new thought, a new meaning and an added beauty in construction or diction or a thought that has never before so impressed us. These charms have always been present but we have not been in just the mood to see and appreciate them in their fullest. It has been my pleasure very recently to stumble on such a value, here in Toronto where I have lived for nearly two years. One of our German speaking converts, Bertha Puckness, an active church worker, has lived for months with a dear old lady, Mrs. Henry Gunter, who came from that far off land of Germany many years ago to this great melting pot of America. When a girl of 19 she left her home in Germany and landed in New York with only three pennies in her pocket but with a lot of good advice from her father. "Elizabeth," he said to his daughter, " you keep away from the young fellows. If one of them asks you to marry him, ask him if he can keep a wife, what his trade is, has he any money, who his parents are and where he comes from? Remember that." Elizabeth did—to the letter when that man came. She reached New York 1863. It was a very different place from the New York of to-day. There was in the hustling little city a wellknown German hotel proprietor who always sent his son to meet the boats and collect his stray countrymen. So before long, this immigrant girl found herself established with her countrymen as a servant in the hotel, and here, two years later, she met Henry Gunter, a handsome young piano maker and after a short courtship they were married, not however until she had carefully asked him all the questions her father had suggested. They lived together sixty-nine years,—the greater part of that time here in Toronto where they have been very happy 502 ELIZABETH GUNTER among their friends. Both she and her husband have been active in musical circles. BECAME interested in Mrs. Gunter when Bertha told me of her childhood activities with the early Kindergarten movement in Germany. I wanted to talk to someone who had really known the great Froebel, so I took the opportunity to visit her in her neat home on Roxton Road. I was welcomed by the plump, white haired little woman just past her ninetieth birthday, but still active and bright, doing all her own work, and looking after the furnace. In her broken English, with her black eyes sparkling with enthusiasm, she told me the following,— "Yes, I was born in Schweina, Germany, and with my sister and a small group of little children I was enrolled in a Kindergarten under Fredrick Froebel (the founder of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Kindergarten) at Mariental, Germany. Of course the real work of this school was conducted by young women teachers, but Froebel, himself, a man of medium height with rather long hair and a kind face and gentle voice, was much of the time at the school, conducting the play and teaching the little songs, dances, and finger plays. Oh! It was lovely all the time at the little school! And we were so happy together. If you like I'll sing you one of the little songs we sang almost daily at the play school." With her wrinkled little hands she held up the white apron she wore over her black dress and danced around her-living room floor gathering flowers from imaginary bushes and filling her apron and arms, singing in her broken English, occasionally lapsing into the language of her native Germany.; AFTER all these many years Mrs. Gunter's soul is full of love and tenderness awakened in her at the tender age of four or five when she came under the wise training of Froebel. This great teacher felt that pre-school children were neglected and he planned for them graduated courses of exercises, modeled on the games in which he found them most interested. It was during the years that Froebel was training young teachers to carry out his wonderful plans that my dear old friend found her way into his Kindergarten. Self activity was the keynote. The children were taught to do things; it was play but as they played, they learned. Now past ninety, Mrs. Gunter is keen and alert, active every minute. When she is not busy with her household duties, she works in her little flower garden in the summer SPANNING A CENTURY . As she explained there were no "jounger" in her family and to pass the hours during the cold weather, she spends her time crocheting. The rooms were filled with her handiwork. There were appliqued borders on the window blinds, doilies on the table and mantel, centerpieces on the cushions, and across the front window was hung a beautiful curtain with a large peacock design in crochet. This, she explained, had taken her over a year to finish "by doing two rows every night." She is proud of the curtain and proud to see people stand on the sidewalk to admire it. It was a most pleasant experience for me to partake of her humble hospitality and to her, I am sure, it was a real joy to have someone listen with keen interest to her reminiscences of the long, long ago. It reminded me of the years in Brigham City when my older children were babies. There I belonged to a Mothers' club where we studied Froebel's Mother's Play Book. As we discussed his methods and attempted to put his suggestions into use with our own little ones, Froebel and his early inspirational methods of training children seemed a thing far removed from us here at home. Now after only a few years, I mingle with one of the very first of his disciples and an ardent admirer of him. To me this is quite wonderful. In our conversation she said to me, "Oh! I love children. Whenever I see children on the street, I stop to watch them at their play. When I know of an entertainment or operetta, where children take part, I try to go, and many, many days, I visit the Kindergarten here where children are taught much the same as 503 I was taught back in Germany. Oh! I love them and I love to be near them. When the lawyer makes out my will, I am going to leave to the children all of my money, above that which will take care of small wants during my life." DAVID STARR JORDAN says: "There is nothing in all the world so important as children, nothing so interesting. If ever you wish to go in for philanthropy, if ever you wish to be of real use in the world, do something for children." "The life of my dear old friend, Mrs. Gunter, bears out this bit of philosophy. The tender love and kind consideration she has for little children fairly beams in her gentle face. Evidently these virtues were awakened in her at a tender age when she sat at the feet of Froebel and absorbed from his understanding heart, his great love and appreciation for the child, the hope of the world. Such a rare and lovely find has quickened me to pay my humble tribute to her: 'Tis sweet to have acquaintance with a soul like hers. To hear her reminiscences Of joyous childhood days, Now near a century gone, Is like an echo from a fairy realm. Her love for little children, Her faith, her hope of heaven, Her joy in making bright A home for those she loves Have left on her an imprint sweet. Her radiant kindly face Reflects the joy she feels. Truly a life like hers Has been a light to some one's feet, Has done its bit To make this good world better. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon AUGUST—Hope soars high, for smiling nature offers her most precious gifts. DURING the summer months, the book lover finds for his delectation a choice variety of books to amuse and delight for an idle hour, either in the garden hammock, the woodland camp, the canyon cottage, or on the ocean cruise. GLADYS HASTY CARROLL, author of "As the Earth Turns," has written another story of Maine farm life, "Neighbor To The Sky." Edith Thomas Nettleton is interesting and amusing with her new book, "Grandmother Bates Sees The World," while for deeper thinking Thursa Graymar has written an appraisal of the present division in the schools over progressive and traditional theories of education titled "The School At The Cross Roads." Genevieve Wimsatt offers a dramatic Chinese story of mysticism, ""The Lotus Flower." DAPHNE DU MAURITIER, granddaughter of the great Victorian author, has furnished a distinct contribution to biography with her book "The Du Mauriers." VIRGINIA WOOLF has _received the highest praise from the literary critics for her last book, "The Years." ANNIE HURST, luxuriously ensconced in a palace overlooking the Grand Canal in Venice, is working on another novel, doubtless with Hollywood rights in mind. ELIZABETH of England and her father, the Earl of Strathmore, received the Order Knights of the Garter together, at Windsor Castle last June. Queen mother Mary and Elizabeth are the only two women members of the Order. LADY NANCY ASTOR made a prolonged visit to her homeland this summer and while she refused to talk for the press on public questions she did make some astute observations on the labor question. AMELIA EARHART'S tragic adventure in the South Pacific threw all other thrills of the year into the shadows. JADWIGA JEDREZEJOWSKI of Poland, brilliant tennis player, won the championship at Wimbledon this summer. American women have held it for the past seven years. HELEN GAHAGEN has been invited to sing the lead at the Salzburg festival this summer. She also expects to tour Europe in concert before returning to her American home. HELEN HAYES, charming actress, was as "nervous as a school girl" when she had conferred upon her the degree of doctor of letters this summer. MARY NORTON as chairman of the labor committee of the House of Representatives with Frances Perkins secretary of labor in the cabinet almost places a monopoly of the labor question in the hands of women. Ferdinand's Strategy By J. S. THE sun shone like brass in the little mesa and even the herd seemed to wilt in its hot glow. Scattered along the river edge and the hillside, they grazed with their big, mellow orbs half-shut. Ferd looked down at them from his post on the hillside. It was hard watching, these hot July days. Nothing less imperative than the strict discipline of his uncle's establishment could keep him awake and alert, as one must be, with some of the finest stock on the ranch under his supervision, and lawless Mexican cattle thieves about everywhere wanting only a chance to drive off a stray from the herd. Ferd prodded himself with this fact as he found himself nodding dangerously under the shade of the scrub-oak where he sat with his dog. Ferd gave an extra sharp glance around to see that none of the cattle were straying. They were all there, even to Black Moll, the pig, who disdaining the society of her kind, devoted herself exclusively to the company of the cows as steadfastly as Touse, only that Touse was wont to run the wanderers down and bring them back, while Moll enjoyed straying as well as any of her bovine friends. HE story of Moll's eccentricity was the choicest bit of history going about the ranch. In trying to get some corn that had fallen through cracks in the corn-crib under the barn, she had managed to wriggle through the hole made by two broken boards, and finding food plentiful, had been in no hurry to extricate herself from her retreat, though the ranch hands had tried in every way to induce her to move. With the water, which was shoved under the barn daily, providing against suffering in this way, she lived under the barn for two weeks; when one day she suddenly appeared, having almost broken her back in her attempt to get out. Exile had changed Moll materially; for when she came back, she displayed a lofty and grunting contempt for her companion-pigs, keeping exclusively to the society of the cows. There were a pair of dun-colored Jerseys to which she seemed particularly attached, and the spot where these chanced to be was a certain indication of Moll's whereabouts. Ferd saw the three now close together, near the outer line of cattle, and smiled as he thought of Moll's queer partiality. But how hot it looked down there in the valley! The glaring sunlight seemed to scorch the grass. Ferd put his hand over his eyes to shut out the glare as he stretched himself out in the shade of the tree. FERD opened his eyes with a start. Touse was down by the river edge scampering after the cows that were making for a bridge down the stream. Ferd roused himself with an effort and with sleepy eyes watched the dog round them in. It did not take long and as Touse raced in with the strays, Ferd, who was just beginning to realize how low the sun was, stood up and began hurriedly to count the herd. When 506 he had finished he went over it all once more. Thirty-three—there was no mistake, and before he had closed his eyes the thirty-five were all in the valley. He got up on a big boulder and looked around. Apart from the herd there was no sign of an animal anywhere in sight. He went to where his pony was tethered at the foot of the slope, and mounting her, rode swiftly around the spur of hills that cut off the view of the lower valley. His new vantage gave him command of a stretch of level plain for at least two miles on either hand, and in that area no sign of the cows was visible. Ferd's heart sank as he thought of the home-going. What would his uncle say when he knew that he had slept at his post? He could guess beforehand the stern look that would come into his face—and who could tell that it might not result in his being sent back home in disgrace? Ferd shuddered as he thought of it. Affairs at home had been bad enough before his mother's death: but with her restraining influence removed, his stepfather had made their place a reproach to the locality; and when, a month since, Uncle Jake Perly rode over from his ranch in the next county and offered Ferd a home, the change was a comparative paradise. Ferd's instincts were of the better sort, and his uncle's household, though ruled with stern discipline, was a haven of righteousness after Pete Rider's lawless one. There were no idlers permitted at his uncle's ranch, and Ferd was given charge of the herd through the day. Uncle Jake had already suffered considerable loss through the carelessness of his hired herdboys, and in entrusting Ferd with the charge of the cattle, he had impressed upon him a clear sense of his responsibility. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It was with sorrowful heart that Ferd reflected upon the possible outcome of his mid-day sleep. If the cows were stolen, it would mean total loss, for it was not easy to gain possession of cattle that had been rebranded. If there were only some one here to go in search of them at once it might not be too late to save them! He looked back longingly in the direction of the ranch. If only one of the hired men would appear! But there was no one in sight in that direction, though a horseman had just turned the bend the other way and was coming toward him. It was Joe Riley, a boy who sometimes worked for Ferd's uncle, and Ferd hailed him with eagerness. "Have you got anything special to do, Joe?" "No. I've been trying herding over at Rugby's, but they were too tough for me and I left." Ferd told him about the strays. "Won't you stay with the herd till I take a look around? I can't bear 'the thought of going back without them." "I don't wonder," said Joe with asmile. "I wouldn't face your uncle with the news for fifty dollars, if I'd been to blame. By the way, I wonder if the animals Sam Smith told me about could have been yours. He passed our place awhile ago and asked me if we'd lost any stock. Said he'd seen two cows and a black pig makin' tracks towards the top of Hyde's hill as fast as their legs could carry them." "Black Moll and the Jerseys!" exclaimed Ferd. He had not had time to notice which of the cows were gone—or that Black Moll was not among those left, but Joe's story left him no doubt as to the identity of the strays. "You'd better get on your horse and go after them as quick as you FERDINAND'S STRATEGY can," said Joe. "I’ll stay with the herd till you get back, and if you don't catch up with them before sundown I'll drive the rest home." FERD hurriedly proceeded to act upon this advice, and as he turned to gallop away he called out, "Tell uncle I shan't come back till I can bring them with me, Joe." Hyde's hill was only two miles to the north. With Bess at her best, it did not take long to reach the spot, and spurring the mare up to the easy ascent, Ferd passed the crest and looked eagerly around. He could see no sign of the strays, and as the valley below was broken by big clumps of timber, he was afraid his search was to be difficult. Riding down the hill he left the road and rounded the nearest stretch of trees, hoping to gain a glimpse of them beyond, but without avail. In the clearing, a short way ahead, he espied a house, and rode up to the door. An old man answered his knock and Ferd hastened to put his question. "Jerseys?" he repeated. "Why I saw two Jerseys and a black pig about an hour back skirting along them trees the other side of the road. They were druv by a man a-horseback; looked like one o' the Rugby gang, but I couldn't make out for sure because o' distance and the sun bein' in my eyes. If the Rugbys have got hold of 'em you might's well go back home." "Where is Rugby's place?" asked Ferd with sinking heart. “It's about five miles northwest o' here; you keep the road till you're clear o' the next strip o'woods and then take the one that turns west." Ferd touched Bess lightly with his spurs and galloped away. It was nearly sundown, and there was no time to lose. It was in fact just as 507 the sun sank from sight below the hills that he came in sight of Rugby's ranch, which was known as _ the haunt and refuge of outlaws throughout the country. IN his ride to the ranch Ferd had mentally formulated a daring plan. He knew Rugby's by reputation well enough to guess that if the strays had fallen into their hands, he could not hope to regain them except by strategy. His uncle had suffered once before through their trickery; and though the clue given him by the old man was indefinite, it was the best and only one he could act upon. Riding boldly through the gates, which were still unfastened, he spoke to a couple of men who were washing their hands and faces at a pump in the back yard. "Is Joe Rugby here?" he asked. "I'm Joe Rugby," answered the elder of the two, eyeing Ferd as he wiped his hands on the rough towel. ~ "I'm Pete Rider's step-son,"" volunteered Ferd, his knowledge of some of his step-father's dealings with the Rugbys making him use his name with assurance. "You're all right then," the man answered with tardy cordiality. "Pete Rider's all right, and I'll be glad to hear what word he has sent." "I wanted a change, and I've come to see if you'd take me on the herd," said Ferd. "I heard you was without a boy, and thought maybe you'd give the job to me." "You're right about our wantin' one, and if you think you're fit for the job I don't see why you shouldn't have it." "I've herded nearly ever since I can remember," said Ferd confidently. "Well, I guess if you can suit Pete Rider you'll suit us," said Jake with 508 a meaning laugh. 'Did you come purposin' to stay tonight?" "Yes," said Ferd stoutly. "Had your supper?" Jake questioned. "No," Ferd answered. "I haven't had anything to eat since breakfast." "Well, I guess you're ready for a meal then? Tie your horse to the fence there and come in to supper." Ferd did as he was bidden and was led into the kitchen, where a half dozen men were already gathered at the supper table. Jake introduced him by stating Ferd's business, and after a few minutes' talk among them he was left to eat his meal in silence. After supper the rest of the men went down to the corral to do the milking, and after putting his horse in the stable, as Jake directed, Ferd eagerly followed them. Leaning over the low bars, he made a rapid but cautious inspection of the cattle in the inclosure. There were four or five Jerseys among them; the most of them duncolored, and having a general resemblance to the two strays. He did not dare go close to them for fear of awakening suspicion; and though he knew that they might be driven away through the night as a precaution in case of search being made for them, he was forced to go to bed at last, without having satisfied himself with any positiveness as to the strays being at Rugby's ranch. THE next morning he was up before five, helping with the milking; and as he sat with his head against the flank of a gentle white cow, a queer, crescent-shaped brand close up on the under side of her foreleg attracted his attention. He had heard his uncle tell how he had tried to trace a valuable brace of cows that he had lost three years RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE since, by that mark, but though a search had been made at Rugby's, who were generally suspected of the theft, no animals of the color ever were found at the ranch. Ferd guessed that they had driven the two cows off in the night and sold them; but here certainly was the same brand in the identical spot as described by his uncle; and it was not unlike the Rugbys to make a bold bluff and bring the cattle back into the vicinity. While he was busy surmising upon his chance discovery, scraps of conversation carried on between two of the men near him came to his ears. "Seems to me 'twas a big blunder to kill her so near home. The squealin' must o' been heard for miles around." "I didn't hear it," said the other. "You wouldn't hear a cannon fired in your ear, when you're asleep," laughed his companion. "All the same 'twas enough to rouse the dead." "What set Jake on killin' her?" "Had to—she made such a row tryin' to git to them cows. Squealed and fought like mad when we put her in the pen with the rest o' the pigs." Ferd's heart begun to beat furiously. What further proof needed he than this? There could be no doubt they were talking of "Black Moll" and if she were here, then too, were the cows, and if so, probably were of those he had seen in the corral last night. After breakfast Jake came to him with detailed instructions as to the cattle. "We don't want you to take 'em beyond ear-reach today," he said. "There may be people round here makin' trouble about strays, and if there is, just you blow three times FERDINAND'S STRATEGY on your whistle and we'll come and settle em. People round here seems to think we keep a free stray pound," he went on with pretended indignation, "and go through our herd for everything in the shape of animals they lose, the year round." Ferd drove the cattle out of the gates hardly able to conceal his joy, as he saw the five Jerseys among the others. The spot Jake designated took him in the direction of Hyde's Hill; and driving the cattle beyond the nearest stretch of timber, he selected a suitable place for pasturage. With the help of the dog they had sent out with him he succeeded in keeping them rounded in within "ear reach" of the ranch, as Jake had instructed him. But not within eye-reach. No sooner had the strip of woods shut him from view of the ranch, than Ferd dismounted, and fastening his horse nearby, proceeded to inspect the brands on the dun Jerseys. They were all cleverly executed, but Ferd was too familiar with the entire business not to detect the odor of the newly-singed hair on two of them, and the slight bungling that had let the iron slip short of the stem of the initial letter "P" that was to convert it into an "R." It had been indeed an easy chance for rebranding, as they had only to add the tail of the R to his uncle's initial, and add the "J" with the ring, to complete the Rugby brand. The newly scorched hair was Ferd's best proof, and so sure a one to him that he determined to lose no time in acting upon his conviction. He had already decided what to do. To attempt to drive the cows home would be madness, as they would probably miss him before half of the twelve miles could be covered with the slowmoving cows. The only way was to ride towards 509 home himself as swiftly as possible with his news, trusting to the chance of meeting some one who would bear his message while he could perhaps return to his charge and allay suspicion. His plans were to succeed even better than he had hoped. Keeping in the shadow of the spruce and pine trees that lined the slope of Hyde's Hill, he had just reached its crest when he saw riding up the opposite ascent, his uncle, with two of the farm hands, who were searching both for himself and the cattle. In a few words he told them of his strategy and the discoveries he had made, and acting upon his suggestion the three men waited till Ferd rode back to the herd to report conditions. In a few moments they saw Ferd's red handkerchief below waving them to come forward; and a short ride brought them in sight of the herd. It took but a short time to verify Ferd's discoveries. Henry Perly finding among the cattle not only the white cow which Ferd had by chance identified, but also the other valuable animal that had disappeared at the same time. Not wishing to dispose of the two valuable milch-cows, the Rugbys had boldly brought them back to their ranch, trusting to their usual luck, and the fact of the long time of their absence to guard against their being identified. It was no easy task driving the four cows back through the trees and underbrush to the top of the hill beyond sight of the Rugbys ranch, but they knew if they were once seen it would mean an onset by the entire gang at Rugby's who outnumbered them three to one. Previous encounters with them had satisfied the little party that discretion was the better part of valor, even with right distinctly on their 510 side. It was not yet noon when they arrived home safely with their property, and a telegram sent to the county seat brought the sheriff with a half dozen deputies to the ranch in two hours' time. It needed only the positive proof in Henry Perly's possession to give the sheriff a long-yearned-for chance of arresting the members of the Rugby outfit, and breaking up an establishment and organization that had been a menace to the county for many years. ON the day following the arrest, Perley called his nephew into the best room, a spot usually reserved for state and momentous occasions. "We have got to have a reckoning Ferdinand," said his uncle with one of his sternest expressions on his face. "You proved unfaithful to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the trust I placed in you, and I must punish you, however much I dislike the task. I have engaged Joe Riley to take charge of my cattle henceforth, and I am going to send you away." The swift tears started in Ferd's eyes. "Where can I go if I leave you, Uncle?" he asked chokingly. "You are to go to school in Denver for two years," said his uncle in a surprising matter of fact tone; "and after that to Annapolis University, if you prove yourself as smart in your examinations as you have in this Rugby business." Then his stern face relaxed into a kind smile; and though Ferd's tears flowed unrestrainedly at his sentence of banishment, it was for joy exclusively, and with no sense of shame.
SIDE BY SIDE By Linnie Fisher Robinson
We sit by the fire—we are bound, he and I, By a hundred small ties and by large ones a score; He reads in his paper—I read in the fire And travel when free to memory's shore.
He thinks I'm content to remain here as he, He doesn't suspect how I roam far and free With youth in my eyes and slender white hands And eager young feet for the questing of lands.
He looks up and turns and smiles real as life, And says, "I declare you look young tonight, wife." I nod and smile—he turns back to his paper And I travel on, now the journey is safer.
Oh, once I was young and did fret while men read And wondered how grandma could sit still as dead, With a sweet patient smile as content as could be; I never did guess—I never did see—
Did she travel, too, while grandpa was newsing? Perhaps—for he made the same speech Jim was using.
Little Moments of Eternity
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? VACATIONS TAKE TIME FOR REST By Lella Marler Hoggan
"After the turmoil of the day God sends the quiet, kindly night." —Selected.
IN THE beginning it was divinely arranged that night should follow day; that a rest period, a holy Sabbath, should come after consecutive days of toil. There is a rhythm, a vibration in everything in nature, an ebb and flow, effort and relaxation, toil and rest, struggle and reward. Labor without cessation defeats its own purpose. Life demands time out, in which to rebuild and reanimate the weary body and to refresh the soul. Remaining too long in the quiet valley of uneventful days of toil does not promote growth. The spirit demands diversion, recreation.
NOW that man has taken life into his hands, as it were, and lightened labor and lengthened leisure, there is an ever increasing quantity of free time to be programmed. With fewer work obligations and more free hours, the problem of giving direction to our leisure time activities demands serious consideration. If free time becomes empty time the very purpose of leisure is defeated. Hours of unemployment are an opportunity for creative effort, education, self-realization; a time for meditation and prayer, a time to cultivate the soul. Our lives are seldom a materialization of our ideals. Shifted about like pawns on a chess board, we fail to realize our most cherished aspirations. The accomplishment of lifelong desires is postponed from year 512 to year, until the vision of hope becomes dimmed or outgrown. Are we not going to awaken some fine morning shocked and disappointed because of unfulfilled promises, frustrated plans, broken dreams? Why should we continue to surrender to the caprice of fate the realization of our highest hopes?
THE visions that come to us are but prophecies of our ability to make them realities. Why not demand a settlement with ourselves this very year? When our vacation season is over we want more than a record of wasted empty hours. Let us see to it that our free time this season yields something of joy, of beauty, of growth, the beginning of some accomplishment that will satisfy the far cry of the soul. Let us take out of our vacation some genuine, lovely thing that will enrich life. That will bring joy and inspiration to the heart. If our vacation is limited to a day in the canyon or an afternoon in the park, we still need not surrender our hope of some fine accomplishment. Many beautiful experiences can come out of one's own backyard. A few days or a few weeks of time can be set apart as a rest period, and plans can be made for a vacation at home. The summer hours from dawn until the stir of the day's activities begin, are most delightful hours. And with a little previous planning it is remarkable what can be achieved in the quiet early morning. There are little rests all along the way of life, quiet moments of relaxation that may be used in any number of delightful ways. The use to which one puts these unemployed moments is the governing factor in his development and promotion. In the utilization of leisure one must RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not fail to take time to rest, to relax, to recreate the inner life.
THE person who indulges a hobby needs no suggestions as to how he shall spend his leisure, for most of his free time is directed toward the perfection of the activity that glorifies and shapes his life. Effort spent in the pursuit of a hobby is not toil, for it refreshes and recreates one, body and soul. No better leisure activity could be found, providing the hobby satisfies some inherent urge. When it does that, the participant finds purest joy in the execution of any labor it may necessitate. He puts into it his best effort and highest inspiration. And he takes out of it joy and satisfaction. And in the end it often amounts to some fine achievement, some worthy contribution to humanity.
LIFE demands solitude. We need time for meditation and prayer if we would develop our spirituality. Have you not felt the nearness of the Divine when you have stood alone under the stars in the silent night? And have you not sensed an unseen presence in a sheltered nook in some deep canyon as you listened to falling water in the distance or to a soft wind whispering through the leaves? Should we not take time to cultivate our finer sensibilities, to put ourselves "in tune with the Infinite"?
LET us make the most of our free time, and deliberately plan to cultivate all that is best within us, "to meet leisure time," as Jay B. Nash urges, "with a supreme personal enthusiasm." Let us lift ourselves on the wings of the morning to the greatest heights we are able to ascend, and demand of our hours of leisure that they yield something significant and beautiful, something that satisfies the soul.
The Work and Business Project By Donna D. Sorensen
SEWING, laundering and the preparation of food will probably last as long as human beings exist. Formerly these activities were performed in the home but during the past century tremendous changes have occurred. The home has gradually been relinquishing these three activities to outside agencies. Some sweeping generalizations have been made from time to time as to just how wide-spread this transferrence has been and how advantageous or disadvantageous it has been to the family. With these facts in mind the work and business project was planned for next year to achieve two objectives: first, to supply factual data to verify or challenge general statements about present day family life; second, to help women to understand and to evaluate their own work and problems. The first objective will be reached when the results from the ward surveys are compiled; the second objective we anticipate will be achieved at the end of our work next year. The survey which will have been conducted will be revealing and decisive in helping the ward and stake leaders of the work and business departments to outline their programs for the coming winter. The tri-fold project may be approached and stressed from the economic issue involved, the desire for greater solidarity in family life and the consumer angle.
WOMEN should feel a general satisfaction in making their personal contribution to the family income. This may be made through organized and systematic effort in their legitimate field—the technicalities and details of housekeeping and homemaking instead of leaving the house to disinterested agencies—a decisive step toward the restoration of sound and healthful living. One woman with a family of four, after keeping records of what it costs to produce things in the home not for sale says: "I have found little in the way of food, clothing and services of various kinds which could not be produced in less time than the average woman would find it necessary to spend in order to earn the money with which to buy factory-made things. Record-keeping covering the cost of raw material, cost of fuel, cost of overhead and time involved has convinced me that if the average woman were to do a complete job of cooking and baking at home she would earn the equivalent of $6.00 net per week. If to what she could earn in her kitchen were added to what she might earn in her sewing room, her laundry and above all, her garden, the sum would show that she could earn far more than does the average woman who leaves her home in order to earn cash, and if women were to use modern appliances to do this work, not only would they pay for the appliances with the cash now expended for goods, which they would be producing at home, and not only could they have better food, better clothing, and better laundry work, but they could have them without the drudgery formerly associated with home-making, with plenty of leisure for cultivating the graces of life." This project approached from the 514 standpoint of the economic values involved will be truly enlightening and some profitable discussion and splendid demonstrations can be arranged. Some suggestive topics and activities follow:
Bread Making Home experiments conducted by women as to cost of home-made bread and comparison with bakery products. Discussion and tests as to value of hard and soft wheat flours. Varieties of quick breads. Demonstration of mixing and baking bread. Demonstration on making refrigerator rolls if the community has a large number of refrigerators. Exhibit of breads from favorite recipes and exchange of recipes. Score several loaves of both homemade and bakery bread using the score card for yeast breads. Discuss nutritive value and the varieties of yeast bread.
Sewing Demonstration of short cuts in sewing. (Various women active in sewing could be asked in advance to demonstrate the short cuts they have discovered.) Demonstration in simple tailoring. Demonstration of how to oil and care for a sewing machine. Suggestions for remodeling clothing. Have a "cotton dress" day probably in the spring in which you ask each member to wear a cotton dress which she has made or purchased ready-made. Compare the two types from the standpoint of (a) cost and durability, (b) satisfaction to wearer, (c) workmanship. Exhibit other types of articles RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE both made at home and ready-made and use above comparison.
Laundry Presentation of accurate data as to the cost of home and commercial laundry. Demonstration of methods for laundering woolen blankets, quilts, and woolen fabrics. Discussion of soaps and water solvents. Discussion and demonstration on stain removal. Latest methods in washing and rinsing. Equipment and supplies.
ONE prominent woman tells that she found herself involved in a multiplicity of duties outside the home. She became dissatisfied at the demands on her time as she felt she was not spending enough time with her two growing children. She remembered with delight the closely knit family life which prevailed in her girlhood home and when she evaluated her activities with this in mind she decided to engage in some of the activities in the home which she remembered her mother performing which brought her such happiness. She wanted her children to remember as she had done the smell of newly baked bread and spicy cookies and she deliberately sacrificed some of her activities for just such homely tasks in order to further a more closely allied relationship in the minds of her children between mother and home. There is decided value in the family and the mother working together in this best of family units, the home. It makes for solidarity to all contribute to a common end. Probably some of our work and business leaders will want to stress just such an appeal THE WORK AND BUSINESS PROJECT in their treatment of the project. If this thought predominates it will color the presentation of the material with a consequent minoring of the economic issue.
APPROXIMATELY 80% of the family buying is done by the housewife. Where the majority of the homemaker's time in a community is put to some economic use that is of greater service than it would be in the home probably the consumer approach to this project would be found more profitable. In such an event the program would probably include discussions as to how the public is protected in the buying of foodstuffs, trade-marks and their value and reliability, report of visits to the local laundries, discussion as to installment buying, inspection in the community, etc.
THE value of this project lies in the leeway which is allowed stakes in their interpretation of the survey and the adaptation of their program to meet community needs and conditions. One of the responsibilities of Relief Society is to teach mothers to help themselves and assume their tasks by fitting them in greater measure for those tasks. Mothers who desire to learn to sew or make good bread, if convinced that it pays, could be assisted on work and business day, or individual instruction could be given in the home. To those who have been making such contribution all their lives in their homes a new appreciation 515 should come to them at the realization of what their economic contribution alone has been. Judgment and imagination and the ability to enlist and interest the ward membership in the project will be needed but at very least our women at the end of the year will have faced and evaluated their own problems and will have come to an understanding of their own choice of life.
Articles and Bulletins Which Will Help in Furthering Project
Cost All About Laundering, Hamilton and Jeffryes, The Service Editor, McCalls, Dayton, Ohio..............30 Soaps and Cleansing Agents, Household Finance Corp., 919 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill............2 for .05 Circular No. 88—Bread Making in the Home, Elna Miller. Circular No. 480—Soap and Water Softeners, Ellen Agren. Circular No. 676—Home Made vs. Ready Made. All three obtainable from U. S. A. C. Extension Service, Logan, Utah. Selection of Cotton Fabrics F. B. No. 1449 .........................05 All three obtainable from Supt. Of Documents, Washington, D. C.
Magazine Articles American Home, January, 1934—"Is There Actual Economy in Doing the Family Wash at Home?" Della T. Lutes. Scribner's, Feb. 1937—"The New Woman Goes Home," by Mrs. Ralph Borsodi.
Notes to the Field
Theology Department
IN HIS "The Archeological Discoveries and Their Bearing Upon the New Testament" Dr. Camden M. Cobern says, "In the lifetime of our Lord there was a 'widespread habit of writing among all classes of the population,' and no doubt the leading facts were written down and circulated 'almost as soon as they took place'—though doubtless at first in fragmentary form—so that probably the first account of the death of Jesus 'must be presumed to be written in the year he died.' (Milligan). As soon as the converts became so many that the original apostles could not easily carry authoritative facts personally to all Christian communities, a need of records would be felt which, because of this general habit of note taking and writing, could be readily supplied." To the Latter-day Saints it is inconsistent and untenable to hold that Christ made no formal attempt to have records made of His teachings. When Lehi's sons were sent back to obtain the records, Nephi pointed out that it was necessary that they should obtain the plates in order that they might have "the words which have been spoken by the mouth of all the holy prophets, which have been handed unto them by the spirit and power of God, since the world began, even down unto this present time." And when great difficulty was encountered in obtaining the record, Nephi was told that it is better that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief. Joseph Smith was admonished, "Behold there shall a record be kept among you."—D. And C. 21:1; and John Whitmer was appointed to keep Church records and history continually—D. And C. 47:3. Had a record of the Master's teachings not been kept, the loss would have been so great that no mortal can estimate it.
Literary Department
THE character of the Indian girl, Sacagawea, is a moot point. Many reviewers said the portrayal of the character of Sacagawea made her too simple, to ingenuous; said she should have been more enigmatical, a Mona Lisa among savages, far beyond her race and her times. I did not find her so. She was loyal, loving, sympathetic and brave; but many of the other Indians, both men and women, were the same. I found her virtues entirely the natural, innocent, virginal virtues of an unspoiled, noble young girl. She was a little vain, wanted to make a good appearance. She coveted sweets and rare tidbits, and secreted them with childish greed. She didn't take care of herself when she was sick; but she took good care of her baby. She admired the white men, recognizing their superiority; she wanted to be like them. An innocent virtue. When Clark was sick, she gave him the portion of spoiling white flour she was preserving to show her child when he was older; womanly, generous, kind-hearted. To me, she is a powerful proof that all the great, heroic, spiritual virtues have root in unspoiled nature. She was not a Mona Lisa; she was just a brave, big-hearted, good young woman. I feel it is only fair to call attention to the fact that up until very NOTES TO recently, it has been argued, rather brilliantly, that Sacagawea returned to her own tribe; never went to St. Louis; did not send her children down to Clark; and lived to a ripe old age and died on the reservation. Dr. Grace Hebard wrote a masterful book on that premise. But she gathered her material before the presentday sources were available. Now in the St. Louis historical society, they have the actual records where Clark paid for the schooling of the children; they have a copy of the letter Clark wrote to Charbonneau; they have the actual diary of Luttig, THE FIELD 517 the clerk at Fort Manuel where she died; as well as the words of the English traveler, Breckenridge, who was on the boat with her on that long and laborious trip up the river. And every date, and every word of description, tallies with other records. I examined all records with minute attention and was obliged to accept this version. And I am happy to say that almost without exception, the American historians and Historical Departments of the different States are in complete agreement with me."—Ethel Hueston. Letter to Prof. H. R. Merrill.
Eliza Roxy Snow
THE General Board conducts the Eliza R. Snow Relief Society Memorial Poem Contest annually. Three prizes will be awarded—a first prize of $15, a second prize of $10 and a third prize of $5. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, and to pay for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Relief Society Magazine, and closes October 15.
RULES OF THE CONTEST
1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women.
2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.
3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, Memorial Contest if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written.
4. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks.
5. Only one side of the paper should be used.
6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used.
7. Statement should accompany the poem submitted that it is her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided.
8. Members of the General Board and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest.
9. A writer who has received the 518 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.
10. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers.
11. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15.
12. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
I CRY WHEN I AM ALONE By Miriam C. Bitner
"My, don't you get lonesome when you are alone?" I am asked in a pitying tone, And I smile when I think how the time passes by So swiftly when I am alone.
Perhaps, I dream I am a child again Kneeling at mother's knee, And I say, "Now I lay me down to sleep" As her dear voice prompted me.
Again I am in the rose garden at home Where, a maiden, I loved to stroll; Or I'm picking violets blue near the meadow path As I'm coming home from school.
I think of a beautiful song I've heard, And I hum it o'er to myself; Or I live again in books I have read, That are now laid on the shelf.
And though I may not leave my chair I have no time to fret or moan For I go to memory's beautiful land, When I am left alone.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - President AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - First Counselor KATE M. BARKER - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Elise B. Alder Ida P. Beal Nettie D. Bradford Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Editor Donna Durrant Sorensen - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Manager Vivian R. McConkie - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Assistant Manager
Leda T. Tensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman
VOL. XXIV AUGUST, 1937 No. 8
Editorials
Church Security
WHEN once the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints puts its hand to the plow it does not turn back. In inaugurating the Church Security Program it is putting the best efforts of its best trained men into it. As President McKay says, "It calls for the everlasting teamwork of every human soul in the Church." It will succeed, for a spirit of determination and effort akin to that which prompted the Pioneers to cross trackless plains and subdue the desert is back of it. God-inspired and God-directed, with the whole-hearted cooperation of the members of the Church, the world will be shown what Christian cooperation and Christian brotherhood can do. It will encourage self-initiative and bring about cooperative help that will result in the good of the whole body. The work is moving forward, much is being accomplished, but greater achievements will mark future efforts. In order to finance the Church Security work a call has been sent forth asking all the members of the Church to observe the Fast Day most devotedly by abstaining from two meals on that day and giving what the food would cost for the furthering of this great plan. A minimum of $1 per capita is expected. San Francisco Ward of San Francisco Stake last year reached $1.79 per capita. The people are also urged to attend the Sacrament service. We hope every Relief Society officer and member will more than meet this standard. Not only will finances be raised in this way but Spirituality will be increased. The Church Security work will not only aid the financially distressed but will bless all who further it. The call has come down through the ages, "Be One, Oh My People, Be One." This gives work that calls all together in a great cause and will increase efficiency, brotherhood, and good will.
520 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Our Project
OUR reading Project for 1937-38 will be the reading of the New Testament. Last season many of our Relief Society women read the entire New Testament through very carefully. This will prepare them for a very much more effective study of the Scriptures this year. It will be remembered that when the Project of Scripture reading was started in our organization, it came in response to a plea from the Mission Relief Society Presidents that our young people should be sent to the mission field with a greater knowledge of the Scriptures. While we deeply appreciate the vast amount of Scriptural reading done by our members, we are fearful that not as many of the children are becoming familiar with the Scriptures as we had hoped would be the case when the Project was started. We suggest that this year the parents get their children together on every Sabbath day or any other definite time and read from the New Testament. Having read it last year, they will know what portions will be most attractive to their young people. We hope also they will have children memorize some of the beautiful passages to be found in Holy Writ. We heard recently of a family who made it a practice on the Sabbath Day before dinner to have the children each tell what he had learned in Sunday School. Would it not be a fitting thing on the Sabbath Day to have each child give a Scriptural quotation he had learned during the week?
Phenomenal Growth
WE recently received from the Washington Branch of the Eastern States Mission a directory prepared by the Relief Society. The cover contains a fine picture of the beautiful chapel. This directory contains 439 names. On the back cover are the names of the directory committee, the Relief Society executive officers, the special officers, the class leaders, the supervisors of visiting teachers, and special cooperators, and the Relief Society district Red Cross unit. The directory includes the full name of each member, her husband's initials, her address, her telephone number, and where she formerly lived. Of this list of names 203 are paid members this year. When we published the report of our Magazine Drive in December, this branch had only 77 members enrolled. They had the highest Magazine subscription in the Church—212 or 275% of their enrollment. After the Magazine Drive was over, these indefatigable women started on the membership, and the result of their wonderful efforts can be seen in their remarkable increases
EDITORIALS 521
Two Valuable Courses
WE call our readers' attention to two very valuable courses of study that are appearing in our Relief Society Magazine. The one "Child Guidance" is a continuation of a two-years' course of study written by a professional who gives most helpful suggestions to mothers in the rearing of children. The other, a new course, "Typical Women of the Church," is a treatise in biographical study, that will be most beneficial to all who will read it. Whether these lessons are taken up in the organizations in any way or not we feel that no subscriber can afford to miss reading these valuable contributions.
Let No Time Be Lost
MANY members of the Relief Society when moving to various States do not immediately affiliate with the local organization. In order that they may be contacted as soon as possible it would be a valuable thing for their friends or relatives at home to send their names and addresses to the Relief Society Mission President who will be delighted to have these people welcomed and invited to affiliate and participate in the local work.
ANTHEM—SERVE AND PRAISE THE LORD By Lula Greene Richards
Serve the Lord of might and wonders— Praise Him for the hail and thunders Which He sends each in its time, For His matchless power and worth Which shall purify the earth— Bring to pass its glad new birth Through His works sublime.
Praise Him for abundant mercies: Love which will rebuke all curses As from evil men refrain. O America—blest land! Where God's sacred Temples stand, By His wisdom built and planned, Wherein Christ doth reign.
Kingdoms—nations—cease from warring, To all lands their rights restoring, To each tribe its own accord. Watch the course of "Jesse's Stem—" "Jews rebuild Jerusalem—" Ephraim here, "Earth's" polished gem, All shall serve the Lord.
By His gracious hand protected, With the just be resurrected— To secure such high award, Selfish pride and envy shun, See each duty justly done, And with Christ the perfect One Serve and praise the Lord.
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
SOME MORMON CONTRIBUTIONS TO AN UNDERSTANDING OF THE LIFE AND TEACHINGS OF CHRIST (Cont'd)
SUFFICIENT references are given in the body of the lesson as well as in the questions and problems. Those persons who have good library facilities may desire to extend their reading and to compare points of view as represented in the books listed in Lesson I. See introduction to previous lesson.
1. Did Christ Command Records to be Kept?
Many have held that Christ made no formal attempt to keep records of His discourses. It is pointed out that He merely wanted to establish a fellowship among men, that the formation of a church was not in His program. Hence, there would be no special need for the keeping of records. Moreover, the very retentive memories of Christ's disciples have been held responsible for the preservation of the incidents and teachings in the gospels. The gospels are supposed to have been written long after His death. The Modern Scriptures, the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, make clear the fact that these conjectures are, in the main, only partly correct. The Book of Mormon records in some detail very valuable observations made by the Christ during His appearance to the Nephites. In 3 Nephi 23:8-11 the Savior criticises the Nephite records because they did not contain an account of the fulfilment of the prophecy of Samuel, the Lamanite, to the effect that many saints arose from the dead after Christ's resurrection. "And it came to pass that Jesus commanded that it should be written; therefore it was written according as he commanded." (3 Nephi 23:13) We immediately ask ourselves why the Christ should be so careful to see that correct records were kept among the Nephites and not among His disciples in Palestine. Reason would seem to tell us that records were kept in the Palestinian Church. We are confirmed in this by revelations recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants. One ought to study carefully sections seven and ninety-three in which reference is made to records kept by John. "And it shall come to pass, that if you are faithful you shall receive the fulness of the record of John." (Doctrine and Covenants 93:18) Neither ought we to forget that when the Christ preached His first great sermon to the Nephites, He delivered the main part of it substantially as it is given in the Sermon on the Mount. (Matthew 5, 6, 7) The extremely close likeness of the account in Matthew to that of the Nephite record (3 Nephi 12, 13, 14) is explainable to us only on the assumption that the first named account was written at or about the time the Sermon was delivered. Furthermore, it will be noted that Matthew's and Luke's (Luke 6:20-49) records of the Sermon differ in details. We believe that this was due to the fact that the latter is a second-hand account.
2. Was Paul the Author of the Sermon on Love?
The sermon on love found in I Corinthians 13 is LESSON DEPARTMENT generally admitted to be one of the choicest bits in all literature. But was Paul really the author of it? For many years the writer has pointed out that it is doubtful if Paul was. The reason for this judgment will be indicated directly. Some time between 400 A. D. And 421 A. D. Moroni, the last of the Nephite prophets, wrote some of the words of his father "which he spake concerning faith, hope, and charity." In the course of these teachings Mormon quotes words that are almost identical with those found in I Corinthians 13. (Carefully compare Moroni 7:45, 46 with I Corinthians 13:4-8). The similarity in these passages can not be accidental. Why does a Nephite prophet on this continent quote passages so nearly like those attributed to Paul? It seems to us there is a logical solution of this problem. It is, namely, that neither Paul nor Mormon were the authors of the passages in question. Both were quoting from a common author. And who was that author? Our suggestion is that Christ was the original author of the sermon, and that He delivered it both to the Jews and to the Nephites. Who would be a more likely author of such a sermon than the Savior of the world? The contribution of the Book of Mormon on this subject is of obvious importance and interest. What a rich mine this book will be to future generations of scholars!
3. The Savior's Use of the Scriptures.
An interesting book could be written with the above title. Here we shall only refer to certain instances of the Savior's use of scripture, that are of 523 special interest. The first reference that catches our attention is to the Book of Daniel. We shall refer to the Savior's sermon recorded in the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew as revised by the Prophet Joseph Smith and as published in the Pearl of Great Price. In verse 12 the Savior is recorded as saying, "When you, therefore, shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, concerning the destruction of Jerusalem, then you shall stand in the holy place; whoso readeth let him understand." Another reference to Daniel in a somewhat different connection is given in verse 32. The interest of these references to Latter-day Saints lies in the fact that modern authorities generally agree that the book of Daniel was written about 165 B. C. If this date is correct, the book, in any instance, could not have been written by Daniel, the prophet. And if Daniel did not write it, why should the Savior make reference to him in such important matters as the coming destruction of Jerusalem and the destructions imminent to the Second Advent? From our point of view it is quite unlikely that the Christ was referring to any other than the Daniel of the Babylonian captivity who lived about 600 B. C. Most modern authorities also agree that the greater portion of the book of Isaiah was not written by that prophet. Particularly, chapters 40-66 are said not to come from him. But few chapters from 1-39 are attributed to him. It is interesting to note, however, that the Book of Mormon quotes extensively from different parts of Isaiah. The Savior quoted Isaiah to the Nephites with approval, including what are now disputed chapters. (cf. 3 Ne. 20:11, 12; 22; 23:1-3) We rather suspect that modern writers hack the book to pieces and deny that Isaiah wrote most of it because they do not sufficiently understand it. The message of the book as a whole is not clearly comprehended. 524 The Book of Ezekiel is another much misunderstood book. A modern author writing of Ezekiel says, "There is much in him that is fantastic, and much that is legalistic. His imaginations border sometimes on the mechanical.... The order and precision of the priestly mind are reflected in the unusually systematic arrangement of the book." Another writer says, "He is one of the few persons definitely pictured as a trance prophet. In his home, or in a council of elders, he suddenly goes off into acute psychic states which stimulate ideas and focus attention upon grave issues." How different the attitude taken by the Lord toward Ezekiel's "grotesque imaginations" and "legalistic" turn of mind! In a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith (Doctrine and Covenants 29:21) the Lord refers with approval to some of his "grotesque" and "legalistic" writings. The world may someday realize that Ezekiel was a real prophet and not a "priest," in the narrow sense now current. The people of the Church, generally, have not had their attention called to the fact that the Christ quoted and explained quite a considerable passage from the book of Micah, the prophet. The reader is invited to compare 3 Nephi 21:12-21 with Micah 5:8-15. It is significant to us and of great interest to know that our Lord singled out part of Micah's prophecy and applied it to the latter days. Micah was a great prophet. All the illustrations given above are indicative of the fact that the Church has some real contributions to make to the world in respect to the life and teachings of Christ. We ought to study and appreciate them more. Revelator. Covenants 93:6-18 and compare RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Questions
1. What interesting contributions to our knowledge, other than those brought out in the lesson, are given in the seventh section of the Doctrine and Covenants?
2. What contribution does modern revelation make relative to Christ's teaching about the New Jerusalem?
3. Could you explain the teaching of Christ in John 14:12-27 without the help of a modern prophet? (See Parry—Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 21-23, or History of the Church, Vol. 3, p. 380.)
4. Do you think Christ taught the doctrine of the three glories to His ancient disciples? Hint: Compare Doctrine and Covenants 76:70-89 with I Corinthians 15:40-42.
Problems Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit.
1. Find as many references as you can in our Modern Scriptures which show that God's people in all ages were record keepers.
2. Some claim that the record of the Christ found in the gospel of John was not written by John the Revelator. Examine Doctrine and Covenants 93:6-18 and compare John 1:1-32; John 21:21-23 and compare Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 7; I Nephi 14:20-27. Do you believe the Church has a contribution to make on this subject?
3. Interpret Micah 5:8-15. Hint: Compare the passage with 3 Nephi 21:12-21. It will be helpful to read the whole chapter in 3 Nephi.
4. Compare Moroni 10:9-17 with I Corinthians 12:8-11. How do you account for the similarities in the two records?
LESSON DEPARTMENT 525
Teacher's Topic
THE FIRMNESS OF JESUS
CHARACTER grows, we are all on the move. Some of the most beautiful miracles are the slow but steady remoldings of character. Let each man take the character of Jesus of Nazareth as a form for his own." "Be sure of the foundation of your life Know why you live as you do. Be ready to give a reason for it. Do not in such a matter as life Build on opinion or custom Or on what you guess is true; Make it a matter of certainty. Then be firm." —Anonymous.
"Character is wrought out in the arrival of life When duty and desire are welded by the hammer strokes of will." —Geo. H. Brimhall.
Firmness is a character trait no less desirable or praiseworthy than tenderness, gentleness or graciousness. "Gentleness of nature is not a virtue but a defect unless accompanied by tenacity of will. Sweetness is not enough to make a man useful and noble. Along with sweetness there must go strength and underneath the moods soft as velvet there must lie a resoluteness hard as steel." Sometimes the character trait of firmness is spoken of as "back bone" and again as "will power." Some one has said, "the Will is character in action." Firmness in character must be exercised under the guidance of intelligence; of effective thinking and sound judgment. Otherwise it becomes headstrongness, stubbornness, obstinacy. The willed character under the control of intelligent willing on the part of those who have learned how to think effectively, has given to the world its leaders. The behavior of an individual is powerfully influenced by the social group in which he moves. Firm must be the one who upholds his standards when they run counter to those of his associates. Firm must be he who would not walk in paths marked out by custom. The strongest and most independent often submit to customs against which the heart protests. The majority of people are not strong enough to be themselves but are echoes of their neighbors and walk in paths marked out by others. Great strength is required not to yield to the wishes and demands of people of influence. Only one of unusual firmness will not compromise principles to win the favor of the influential. The respect and good will of neighbors, friends, and loved ones is genuinely sweet but the purchase price of these should not be a sacrifice of principles. The world is ever calling for men of stability, men who stand firm. In Jesus of Nazareth we find firmness super-abundantly. Here was a man whom nobody swerved or dominated. He did not yield to the wishes and demands of a nation. His countrymen had formed definite ideas of the Messiah. They wanted and expected him to be the "King of Kings." Jesus did not attempt to carry out the program on which the hearts of his countrymen were set. He stood firm "in choosing the road that led to supremacy by way of Gethsemane and Golgotha." He had the strength of will to perform his duty even though he had to disappoint the dearest wishes and expectations of his people. Jesus was the greatest of all re- 526 ligious leaders. He stood out firmly in defiance of certain teachings and ceremonies of the Jewish Church such as Sabbath observance, the use of the Temple, etc., until his nonconformity labeled him a blasphemer. He had abundant opportunity to win the favor of the influential of his day by compromising his principles. His steadfastness to them made for him enemies who finally crucified him. To turn a deaf ear to the entreaties of loving friends requires a firmness possessed by few. Jesus did this with Peter. "Jesus began to show unto Peter how that he must go unto Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes; and be killed, and be raised again the third day. "Then Peter took him and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord, this shall not be unto thee." But he turned, and said unto Peter, "Get thee behind me, Satan. Thou art an offence unto me: for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but the things that be of men." Jesus firmly resisted the importunities of his family. His mother's exhortation went unheeded in order to obey the call of his Father in Heaven. His experience in the temple when twelve years of age furnishes an illustration. Mary said to Jesus, "Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing." And he said unto them, "How is it that ye sought me? Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Jesus was not only firm himself. He wanted all men to be firm and steadfast. Consider the quotation, "And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake; but he that shall endure to the end, the same shall be saved." All His promises and warnings to mankind remain unshaken and unchanged. Steadfastness in human character is admired by all. Individuals must learn to recognize bigness and importance, must develop worthy principles then be loyal to them against all persuasion. Lacking this we are unpredictable and poorly fitted for workaday service. No one can exercise will power for another. Each one must do that for himself. Never let it be said of you, "Anyone can talk him into anything," or "He is a good enough man, but so easily influenced."
References Character of Jesus—Jefferson. Mark 2:27. Matt. 21:12-16. Matt. 17:21-23. Luke 2:41-49. Matt. 10:22.
Questions
1. Compare obstinacy with firmness and give examples of each.
2. What present day conditions require firmness on the part of Latter-day Saints in upholding Church standards?
3. Why must Parental attitudes with regard to L. D. S. Standards be as firm as conduct?
4. Show why firmness of character is essential to success in life.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 527
Literature Lesson II
SACAGAWEA
THREE boats constituted the fleet which carried the Lewis and Clark Expedition up the river. On the largest and best of the boats was the leather lodge which Sacagawea shared with her husband and the commanders. "Clark recorded the dramatic moment of their departure in his Journal. "Two Capts.,' he wrote. 'Three sergeants.' 'Two interpreters.' To complete the record he included a roster of the men. Of the original twenty-nine who started from St. Louis three were gone: Sergeant Floyd slept on his bluff above the river; Red and Newman had been sent to St. Louis in disgrace. LaPage had been recruited in Mandan in place of Newman and Charbonneau had been added; Charbonneau and Sacagawea. Sacagawea! Clark hesitated. He scratched his head. "'Charbonneau'," he said, 'spell your squaw's name for me. I want to put it in my Journal. Spell slowly'." But Clark almost gave up in despair after Charbonneau had pronounced and spelled it several times. "'I spelled it,' said Clark with considerable pride. 'It was not easy, but I did it. She's got a right to go in the record along with the rest of the party'." How much of a right to go into the record she was to have he was to learn over and over before the long journey was finished. She became somewhat important immediately by being able to add to their food supply from the native fruits and vegetables along the way. "Usually they stopped for the main meal of the day at 2 o'clock. Then while the cooks prepared food, Sacagawea wandered in the woods, searching for small grains and vegetables. She discovered wild artichokes, hidden in holes by mice for winter provender. She raided their nests prodding in the earth about small collections of dead wood with a sharp-forked stick until she had collected all she could carry, and was sufficiently rewarded by Clark's warm smile. "Janey, what an unexpected asset you are turning out to be!' he declared. 'I dare say in the end it will be you and no one else who keeps us from starving, saving our lives and our expedition'." "She flushed happily. Poor Sacagawea! If only she could understand the important words that went with the friendly smiles. She tried hard to pick up a little English, but it was not easy. Not only Charbonneau's imperfect knowledge made it hard, but the odd dialects of the men themselves—Scotch and Irish, rough frontier vernacular, Yankee, and pleasant Southern drawl." The journey must have been a delight to the little Indian woman. Ever so many new and wonderful things! Flour and sugar were wonderful to her. She asked the cook if she might have some of each to put away to show her little son when he grew up. Sacagawea often walked on shore with the Captains and especially with Clark whom she trusted most. They plied her with questions about her people and made an attempt to learn some of the Shoshoni language. " "When you see my people,' Sacagawea told them, 'tell them quickly that you are white men. Tab-ba-bo-ne. That is the word. Tab-ba- 528 bo-ne. White man. Tell them at once. For you are now burned black as the Indians, and no Indians come here except to fight and steal their horses and their women. Pull up your sleeves and show them your white skin, quickly and cry, 'Tab-ba-bo-ne!'" As the boats got farther up the yellow river, hardships increased, but Sacagawea was one of the staunchest and complained the least. To Charbonneau she was an abject slave waiting upon him, obeying his slightest wish. The Indian woman not only kept her own moccasins and clothing mended, but she mended those of her worthless husband as well as those of the party. Eager to do her share to make the expedition a success, with her boy on her back she ranged the banks of the river in search of foods that only the natives could find. ' Sacagawea's courage and resourcefulness were exhibited one day when a squall of wind nearly capsized the boat. The Captains were on shore and the boat so nearly sank that many precious articles would have been lost had not the Bird-Woman kept her seat in the back of the boat and gathered them in as they floated past. "'Janey, you are a good soldier!' they declared. 'You are a great mariner! How did you get all this stuff?' "'I picked it out of the river,' she said simply. 'As it went swimming by, I caught it with my hands. It is our Great Medicine. Our Great Medicine must not drown.' "Janey, you should be captain of our fleet—no, our admiral! You are a real hero! You have saved the expedition!'" After the party had landed and had eaten, the Captains said to each other: " "The squaw is a good woman. She is no coward—like some'." In the meantime, as they went along, the two Captains, Ordway, Whitehouse, and Gass were recording the incidents of the trip from which this book we are studying was made. Mrs. Heuston took those same journals with her and made the trip up the Missouri and down to the Ocean, just as they had done except, of course, she went in an automobile and not in the slow-moving boats. So impressed was Clark with the intelligence and loyalty of the Bird-Woman that "In mapping the tributaries of the Missouri, Clark suggested that they name a creek for Sacagawea in recognition of her resourcefulness and courage in salvaging their goods from the river. The voyagers went slowly toward their goal. The boats gave them trouble; the bears attacked them; a buffalo bull nearly wrecked their boat, but they kept on until at last they were beyond the trail ever made by any white man. And all the time the little Bird-Woman grew in favor. ' Hardships, poor food, and the care of her boy had their effect upon Sacagawea. She finally fell ill and came close to dying, to the sorrow of the entire party who waited upon her as best they could, the two Captains giving her every aid. Lewis prescribed, but Clark gave her the medicine. Whitehouse wrote in his book: "Our squaw is very sick and I am very sick myself." The men of the party had been so fine, on the whole, that one day when they were near Great Falls, Montana, Clark said: " 'We could have combed the world and not found a finer crew....' "'There is God's truth in those words,' Lewis replied. 'There must have been some divine influence > back of their selection'. LESSON DEPARTMENT The portage around the Great Falls was most difficult. Storms added to their peril and hardships. Clark, Sacagawea, Charbonneau and the baby came nearly being swept to their death by a flood, but the little Indian woman was as courageous during floods on land as she had been on the river and her husband about as worthless. Near this spot they celebrated July 4, 1805. It was only a few days later that Lewis noting the abstraction of Sacagawea, asked her if she were ill. " 'This is the land of my people,' she said dreamily. 'I have been here. Many snows ago. My tribe comes here. The Three Forks is very close. We shall see my people soon'." They went on and soon came to "three noble rivers" which they christened the Gallatin, Madison and Jefferson, "the author of our enterprise." As soon as Clark, who had been sick, was able, they went on halting for dinner on that day on the exact spot where Sacagawea had been captured by the Minitarees. The men clustered about her following her from point to point, to hear her exciting tale afresh on the side of its occurrence." As the party went forward, Sacagawea became more and more agitated. Her meeting with her brother, Chief Camehwait is very cleverly told by our author. Sacagawea was so much perturbed that she was unable to continue as interpreter. Lewis, the fine gentleman that he was, seeing her agitation, postponed the council until she could converse with her brother and learn about her people. It was for this contact that the little Bird-Woman had been brought along. Had she not been with the party, it is doubtful if the Expedition could have succeeded. She 529 learned of the disaffection of her brother in time to tell Lewis who, through his diplomacy, won the chief's aid. While camped with her own people, Sacagawea was told by Lewis that White Bear, who had been her betrothed, still claimed her. The little woman, so long a slave, felt that there was nothing to do but to remain with her husband. However, Lewis once again revealed his sagacity and bought White Bear off, allowing Sacagawea to continue with them to the very edge of the great Ocean. After almost unbelievable hardships, the expedition finally got across the Rocky Mountains and on October 7, 1805, launched their improvised boats upon the Snake River and were off for the coast. At last the party came in sight of the great bay and later the ocean. They had made the trip in safety. Spending a miserable winter on the cold and rainy coast they set out upon the return journey the following spring. Many of the incidents of that winter, Mrs. Heuston has related with charm and a deep understanding of human nature. The closing paragraphs of chapter fifteen, beginning with "Going home!" might well be read in class. It was on a Sunday, March 23, 1805, that the little party, the Indian woman and her half-breed child among them, took to their boats for the long journey up the Columbia and back over the shining mountains. Poor little Indian slave of the lazy bad man! How surprised she would be to learn what has been written in many books about her! How surprised to know that thousands of white women are studying the incidents of her life gleaned from the things that "were written in the book. 530
Suggestions for Study
1. Trace the movements of the party from the Mandan towns to the mouth of the Columbia River. The map could well be brought into use again here.
2. Have members of the class, where more than one text is available, have passages of beauty ready to quote.
3. Picture as best you can Sacagawea's meeting with her brother.
4. Note that in the second paragraph of Chapter 13 the Lemhi River is mentioned. It might be well to have someone give a brief sketch of the Lemhi settlement in Idaho, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the first white settlement to be made in that state. It was made by the Mormons, Lemhi being a Book of Mormon name.
5. Picture Christmas 1805 as these people celebrated it at the mouth of the Columbia. Note Sacagawea's Christmas present to the "Red Head."
6. Evaluate Mrs. Heuston's story as literature. Has she succeeded well in presenting situations, characters, actions?
The quotations in this lesson from Star of the West, by Ethel Hueston, Copyright 1935, used by special permission of the publishers, The Bobbs-Merrill Company.
Social Service Lesson II
FREEDOM OF SPEECH
Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chapter XXI.
FREEDOM of speech is one of the rights of an enlightened culture which people should respect and cherish as a privilege. In comparison to the history of man, free expression in society, both in its written and its verbal form, is of very recent date. Even the idea that each member of a country has the right to expect his government to protect his person and his property is a comparatively new acquisition to citizenship. Such a concept has developed gradually through the passing of the centuries in which government has slowly taken shape. And hundreds of years of struggle have been required to extend civil liberty to include such rights as freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and fair trial for misdeeds. But, as with all desirable rights, the enjoyment of these privileges is attended by corresponding dangers and responsibilities. Personal liberty incurs the responsibility of obedience to law. Freedom of speech and of the press also necessitates very definite obligations. As always, the greater the amount of freedom and the number of privileges which a government grants to its people, the more sacred is the trust which has been vested in them, and the greater is the responsibility for respecting the trust. To contemporaries, the privilege of freedom of speech might seem old, but comparatively speaking, it is of recent date. The law is still new in its application, and even today, it is sometimes questioned. Because neither its meaning nor its obligation is very generally understood, the following purposes will be indicated in regard to the subject in this lesson: 1. To understand the meaning and privileges of freedom of speech. 2. To understand the limitations LESSON DEPARTMENT which should act as a restraint upon public utterance in order that the law may be exercised with caution. The expression "freedom of speech" will here include both its written and verbal aspects, or the freedom of the spoken word and that of the press. It means that a citizen has the right to speak for himself or an organization without restriction. The opinions which he expresses may harmonize with or directly oppose the established order. But in either case, according to the legal rights of the individual, the freedom to express himself may not be questioned. The early foundations of the Western nations was laid upon the struggle for civil and political rights. Those who settled the New World desired freedom to worship, to write, and to speak as they pleased. They also claimed the right to earn a living as they wished. Before the constitution of the United States was accepted those who drew up the document found it necessary to attach the Bill of Rights. This Bill included the specifically mentioned guarantees that no law could ever be passed which might limit the freedom of worship or abridge the right of free speech, free assembly, or the right of petition. Similar provisions have been incorporated in each state constitution as it has been drawn up. It is under such guarantees that street and public meetings for the preaching of the Latter-day Saint gospel and similar functions have been guaranteed. It is an understood fact in democracies that people do not belong to the government, but that the government belongs to the people. No problem can be solved in a representative nation without the fullest and freest discussion. Ideas and theories on practices of governments, " 531 economic policies, principles of worship, and the value of social customs always differ. But unrestrained discussion of such differences lends stability to the basic institutions which are under consideration. Naturally there is no escape from much that is neither wise nor provident. But although a subversive condition may gain ascendency from time to time, falsehood and unsound ideas usually become gradually sifted out and discarded once they are made plain to the public. Thus freedom of speech becomes a great asset to a nation. Freedom of speech also acts as a safety valve by which grievances find an escape through discussion. If they are justified, rectification may occur; if not, their folly may become plain. Freedom of discussion in regard to vexing problems on which there is great diversity of opinion also helps to clarify the spirit and logic of opposite points of view. Although the wisest course is not always taken, the discussion should help to point the way towards the achievement of what is desirable, or, at least, worth attempting as a measure of government. Oliver Wendell Holmes said: "The best test of the truth is the power of the thought to get itself accepted in the competition of the market." Even though these rights have been found very useful to both the government and to the governed, and although they are guaranteed by the organic law of the land, they have been repeatedly challenged. Although new conditions are constantly arising which call for interpretation, there are some elements in society which would suppress the freedom of speech. In times of national stress and disaster, laxness in moral standards produces a temporary breakdown in law enforcement. The right to free expression is then 532 restricted. For example: during the struggle between the forces of abolition and those of slavery that preceded the Civil War, the suppression of civil liberties occurred in many states. Among these suppressions was the curtailment of the freedom of speech. During labor controversies strikers have been repeatedly imprisoned and driven from their homes in spite of the constitutional guarantees of personal protection, property rights, and that of freedom of speech. Present disputes over new governmental forms and over the rights of laborers versus their employers are bringing the same rights into question. It is true that although some rights which are guaranteed by law have not always been protected, such rights are often spoken of as "sacred" by those who at times violate the guarantees. However, freedom of speech is a right which should be exercised with care. It is a tool or a weapon of defense to be used by individuals and organizations throughout the nation. But it has been used in the past, and it can be used during the present, so unwisely that it has created a reactionary force which has in turn resulted in greater restriction of freedom. When mob violence was used to drive the Mormons out of their successive settlements, with its culmination in Illinois and Missouri, the mob suffered, as did the country in general, in the reaction to the violence. The government restricted the right of freedom of speech to a large extent for some time after the persecution. Because the mob took upon itself the punishment of those whom its defendants wished to restrict, the whole country lost a portion of its right to free speech for some time. The loss was shown in the restrictions which were placed upon all people in the matter of exRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pressing their honest religious convictions. It is well to realize that such possibilities exist in order to avoid them with due consideration for proper restraint. It is important that the privilege of freedom of speech should not be abused. It is unpardonable to exercise the right towards the destruction of liberty. Although freedom of speech is a fundamental law of the country, it should never be interpreted to justify a concerted attack upon government or upon any form of society. There is a limit that must be placed upon the freedom of speech. It shall not directly give rise to an unlawful act. The Supreme Court of the United States has clearly pointed out some of the limitations of this law as the following quotation illustrates: "That a state in the exercise of its police power may punish those who abuse this freedom by utterances inimical to the public welfare tending to incite crime, disturb the public peace, or endanger the foundations of organized government, and threaten its overthrow by unlawful means, is not open to question." United States Supreme Court, 268 U S 652. It is clear however that it is the use and not the abuse of free speech that should be emphasized. And because fanatics and demagogues frequently do wrongfully appeal to sympathy or resort to violence to gain their ends, the public should be on constant guard against their devices in the name of free speech. People must learn to recognize the natural and reasonable restrictions that really act as a safeguard to the law. Along this line of thought, Mr. M. C. Harrison in Censorship of Speech and the Press, by Berman, LESSON DEPARTMENT has suggested limitations somewhat as follows: 1. There is no excuse under the plea of free speech to one who directly or intentionally incites unlawful action. 2. All governments have the power to determine how near to, or how remote from immediate incitement to crime, the law will take cognizance of spoken words. 3. The extent of free speech, or better, the amount of social tolerance to minority opinions, depends directly upon the general sense of security within a country. In war times the margin of security is reduced. Since the public mind then becomes hysterical and apprehensive, a large degree of social tolerance and the so-called right to free speech disappears. For example, during the World War, any one who expressed sympathy for any belligerent was apt to be branded as an undesirable citizen. If the person was of foreign birth the social intolerance was extreme. Arrest or ejection from the country was often demanded. But in times of peace the same kind of remark is not subject to particular notice. During periods when communism, Anarchy, or other radical departures from accepted governmental forms are being widely discussed, the basic guides for restriction should be kept in mind. Although free discussion is lawful and may contribute to a wholesome philosophy of life, no one has the right to promote or encourage unlawful acts under the protection of the law. Just as mob violence weakened the principle of law observance and order in the United States, the Inquisition which was the persecution of protestants who were bold enough to express their religious views, prolonged the Dark Ages in earlier history. 533 When restriction originates in government itself, liberal citizenship is denied. For example: the once great religious leaders in Russia and Germany have disappeared. Loss of property and other dire consequences have also resulted. And when citizens do not respect the right of free speech, we have such dreadful occurrences as assassination of presidents. Two United States chief executives, Abraham Lincoln and William McKinley, have lost their lives because radicals have not granted those presidents the right to express their views according to law, and also because the radicals were unwilling to attempt the accomplishment of their purposes through the regular channels of discussion. Thus there is a happy medium to be sought. Both repression of the law of freedom of speech by a government and its abuse by the citizens result in periods of restriction to the exercise of the right. That group or organization which understands the meaning and privileges of freedom of speech has within its grasp a powerful means for the achievement of many desirable purposes. But where such priceless and hard-earned privileges are enjoyed, those who have the right to them should sense the obligations and limitations of such power. People should realize that freedom of speech should be used for the building up of institutions and for the improvement and intelligent advancement of mankind and never for destructive purposes or discord.
Activities
1. Prepare a report on the difficulties experienced by missionaries in teaching the gospel through street meetings. How much of the opposition has been due to the failure of 534 people to recognize the rights of free speech?
2. On all questions of social policy and change why is it a good thing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to allow an organized minority ample time to discuss its opinions before any legislative step is taken?
Literature for Missions
TYPICAL WOMEN IN THE CHURCH Lesson 2
JENNETTE EVANS McKAY
SISTER HUEFNER was a German, born in Wales. We have seen that she suffered no handicap in the Church by reason of this fact. Let us now pass in brief review the life of a Welsh-born girl, Jennette Evans, born August 28, 1850, near the town of Merthyr Tydfil. It was in May of that year that her parents and their older children became members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Thus Jennette was born in the Church. But in those days in Great Britain, as generally elsewhere, it took very much courage to join the unpopular Mormons. The Evans family exhibited this courage in high degree. For joining the Church her father was disinherited and cut off by his relatives. In order to join the body of the Church in America, he emigrated with his family in 1856, sacrificing a comfortable home and considerable other property, being able to sell them for only a small fraction of their value. But undaunted, the Evans family went to Liverpool and sailed for America. Profiting by the sad experiences of some who began the long, hard trek across the Plains from the Missouri River to the Salt Lake Valley in the Rocky Mountains very poorly prepared, Brother Evans exhibited the good judgment characteristic of him by making a thorough preparation for this trying journey. On his way from Liverpool to Salt Lake he stayed three years in Iowa working hard to acquire a satisfactory equipment for crossing the Plains. This done, he and his family crossed in the Summer of 1859 and settled in Ogden, forty miles north of Salt Lake City. Jennette was six years old when she left her native land with her family, and nine when they arrived in Ogden. Of course, she grew up with a keen memory of the experiences of that long journey and wisely profited by the many lessons she learned. Her parents were industrious, thrifty people. Times in early-day Utah were hard and life simple. Nevertheless her parents believed in education for girls as well as for boys; hence their children were given the best advantages the crude schools of the times afforded. Being studious and a lover of books, Jennette avidly seized every educational opportunity. These opportunities existed in the home, in Church organizations, in social contacts with her friends, as well as in the school room. None of them was neglected. Thus Jennette grew up to be a well-trained LESSON DEPARTMENT and beautiful young woman, popular with all her associates. One young man had been watching her for years. Finally he ventured a proposal of marriage, was accepted, and so Jennette became Mrs. David McKay on April 9, 1867. After marriage they moved from Ogden to Huntsville, a village in a high mountain valley a few miles east of Ogden. This continued to be their home the remainder of their days, a very happy one, made so by the love, unity and faith of the husband, wife, and their devoted children. It was always an ideal Latter-day Saint home. It must be clearly understood, however, that such a home is not necessarily free from difficulties and trials. The McKay home had plenty of these. Brother McKay was a farmer and stockman. He took his beautiful young wife to live in a farm home, a small one at first, furnished with only bare necessities. And he was even in debt for these and the farm. But hard work, thrift and wise management gradually reduced the debt until after thirteen years the farm was debt free and happiness supreme now reigned in the home though deep sorrow had previously entered there. Death had taken their two eldest daughters within a week of each other. But now another trial came into this happy home, just made debt free. It was a call from the President of the Church for Brother McKay to go on a mission to Great Britain. How could this call be answered? Brother McKay was now out of debt, but he had no money to pay his way abroad and support his wife and her three young children (a fourth was expected) while he was away. So he said to her: "There can be no argument about my going now; 535 it is absolutely impossible for me to leave. I shall write explaining conditions and ask for a leave of one year." This seemed to be the only reasonable thing to do. Sister McKay replied: "And do you think there will be fewer obstacles to your leaving in one year than there are now?" His answer was: "Certainly, my dear! You will be well and strong again: without any more notes coming due, we could have a small savings account, and the farm could be rented so you would not have that to worry about." After some deliberation, to this statement she quietly answered: "I think it will be better for you to go now." Get the picture: a strong young Scotch husband (Brother McKay was born and spent his early years in Scotland) who almost worshipped his wife, so great was his love, now looked into her face fully convinced that it was impossible to leave her now in her delicate and their impoverished condition; to do so would mean that she would have to manage the farm and support him and the children while he was away. This task seemed to him insufferable, especially in view of her delicate condition. But so great was her confidence in the Lord that she felt all would be well; hence she insisted that he leave for his mission without delay. Argue and persuade as he did, he could not change her decision. At the moment she, too, could not see how she would be able to manage. Yet had not the call come from the Lord through His inspired servant? She could not doubt it. Hence certainly all would be well. In this crisis faith conquered, for it was supreme. A delicate woman exhibited herculean strength, and she was not later disappointed. Her husband left shortly for his 536 mission. Ways unexpectedly opened; kindly friends did what they could; the Lord was ever near, though not without some trials, the McKay family prospered through the capable management of Sister McKay. The Lord made her equal to every task. Her baby girl arrived safely; her eight-year-old son, David, and his younger brother Thomas, willingly did their bits. Accordingly, she was able to keep the boys in school, to execute the plans made with her husband before his call to a mission, to enlarge and furnish the house, and to provide him with needed means. On returning home her husband saw with astonishment the enlarged dwelling, the well-kept farm, and the healthy, happy family. During his absence his wife had written him little about their material affairs. As they knelt in family prayer that night, as was their custom, the husband poured out his heart in gratitude to the Lord for the faith of his wife, that sent him so promptly, on his mission, and for the many blessings they all received during his absence. Sister McKay was the mother of ten children, eight of whom still live. The quality of the mother is usually reflected in the children. "A tree is judged by its fruits." Those acquainted with the fine family she left need no further proof that Sister McKay was a high-grade woman. It is no surprise to learn that she encouraged her children to educate and make the most of themselves. All eight of them attended college, though this involved sacrifice and the strictest economy. To attend college they had to go away from home to other towns. Sister McKay loved refinement and culture; but she loved service even more. Her husband was Bishop RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of their Ward for twenty years. As a Bishop's wife she found ample opportunity to exercise her sympathetic and generous nature. She was always looking after the sick in the Ward and those in need of comfort and cheer. Her home was as open as a public hostelry for the entertainment of visitors to the Ward. All callers received a warm welcome and were made to feel at home. She never sought for office; yet all her life she was an officer and worker in one or another of the auxiliary organizations of her Ward. She was always a strong support to her husband and encouraged him in his Church duties in every way in her power. She did the same for her children. Her four sons all filled one or more missions. Two of her four daughters filled missions for the Church. Sister McKay died January 5, 1905. On this occasion the Salt Lake Tribune, the largest circulating newspaper in Utah, and at the time bitterly anti-Mormon, said of her: "Few women in Weber County were more widely known or more universally loved than Mrs. David McKay, and the announcement of her death has caused a gloom of sorrow not only throughout Ogden City and Weber County, but over the entire State."
Questions for Discussion
1. What reasons may be given for the statement that Jennette Evans' parents were religious people?
2. What reasons may be given for the statement that her father was a wise, capable man?
3. Give reasons for believing that Jennette Evans was refined in her tastes. LESSON DEPARTMENT
4. Point out why she was a good wife.
5. Show that she was a good mother.
6. Show the value of prayer in daily life.
7. Give instances to illustrate the value of faith as a guiding principle in her life.
8. Her two eldest sons are David O. McKay and Thomas E. McKay, 537 Second Counselor to President Grant and President of Ogden Stake, respectively. Why do you believe their mother must be given great credit for the fine achievements of these two sons?
9. Show that Sister McKay found joy in serving others.
10. Show that she was sympathetic and unselfish.
11. Give reasons for believing she did not seek office or public positions.
Child Guidance Lesson 2
WORK AND PLAY
PLAY accomplishes several valuable results in the life of the child. In the first place, it helps him to gain muscular strength and accurate control of his body. The muscular coordination of children who have been brought up on a carefully planned play program is distinctly more developed than in the case of children whose play activities have been limited. In addition to muscular coordination, play brings the child into contact with many objects and situations which enrich his sensory experience. Manipulation of materials also permits him to develop certain concepts which are necessary for successful adjustment in the physical world, for example, how to fit things together, how to pile objects so they will not fall, and knowledge of what various materials will withstand without tearing or breaking. Even more important as an outcome of play activity is the growth of self-feelings and other aspects of personality. The child learns the joy of feeling himself as the cause of a ball flying through the air, or of a castle of blocks taking form and being shattered with a sweep of the hand. To pull the string of a kite or to walk a tight rope or fence gives the child the same sense of control, and this is frequently the principal delight in various forms of play. It is the reason why children play. Play also helps to prepare the child for future life and gives vent to surplus energy; but the child plays for the sake of playing, because the activity is pleasant in its own right; and it is pleasant, because it gives growth to his ego or self. Play, then, is activity which the child enjoys for its own sake and which is free from external control or interference, and with no fixed goal in sight. Work, on the other hand, is controlled from the outside and is directed toward a goal other than the activity itself. This distinction has important applications for the parent. The child who is busy at constructing a wind mill is usually irritated when the observing "dad" comes along to tell how it ought to 538 be done. Instruction or direction from without promptly changes the task from play to work. It is not play unless the child can change his plans at will or abandon them completely if he cares to. If the child can be led to find for himself instructions on how to do the job, it still remains play. So long as no harm is being done, let the child find his own way while he plays: put opportunity in his way, but avoid directing what he shall do. In recent years, educators have clearly recognized the value of play in the growth of the child, but the parent should keep in mind that the work attitude and the play attitude are essentially different, in that play is free activity initiated and controlled by the child while work is controlled activity restricted by the task and directions Originating in someone other than the child himself. To attempt to "sugar coat" work and routine in order to get the child to do it, is a mistake. To entice him into thinking his routine is a game sometimes helps to get him to bed or to wash his hands before dinner; but as soon as the novelty wears off, the mother still has the task of building up the proper habits in relation to these tasks. Early in the life of the infant, the mother should begin to establish a routine which is quite rigid and which must be followed for its own sake. Thus, regular hours of sleeping, eating, and attendance at the toilet should be insisted upon in order to build up physiological or bodily rhythms which will later take care of themselves without fussing on the part of either child or mother. The infant does not need to know why these things must be done in order for them to become habits which will attend to themselves, or with a minimum of urging. This is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the work side of infant training. Play or free activity should not be emphasized to the neglect of this very essential part of the child's training. Later other chores may be assigned for regular attendance and built into habits that will to some extent become automatic also. Routine and chores have an important relationship to play. Later in the life of the child play is a release from control; but if there is no control through routine and chores, how can play have its full value? Work may be made a condition for play by such teaching as the following: "Now, Jimmy, let's hurry and put the play things away and see how quickly and well you can wash for dinner so you can get back to your play that much sooner." If regular routine as to meal time has been established, hunger sensations will be present at this moment and will make dinner look like a pleasant diversion from play. We are all familiar with how even chickens can be taught to be hungry at a regular feeding time. The freedom that comes from getting the routine "over with" so the child can do as he pleases again makes real play possible. Play life for the only child, or the child in a small apartment or dwelling, suffers frequently from the interference of the parents. Interruption of activities in progress for the child (or adult) is distinctly distasteful at best. When the parent persistently shouts for the child to be quiet, to go somewhere else, or not to play with the telephone or sewing machine, his play life is definitely hampered and he may even fall victim of a certain degree of the treacherous feeling that he is not wanted. What is really wrong in a home where this happens? The parents have not taken the child's need LESSON DEPARTMENT for play seriously enough and have not made proper provision for it. A special room for the child or children to play in is as important as any other room in the house. It should be constructed so that there is little danger of damage to the room or injury to the child, and when he is in his room he should be king. Places should be provided for putting away toys and play materials, and proper light, heat, and ventilation should be provided so that the room will be pleasant in every respect. A number of cheerful pictures are often valuable aids to this end. Since the child's need for play is as real as his need for food, he should be provided with ample materials suited to his stage of mental development. A number of guides to the play materials most suitable for various ages are now available, such as, "Play and Playthings," by Wolf and Boehm, (distributed by Child Study Association of America, 54 West 74th St., New York City). Plain blocks, large and small, brightly colored, are especially desirable for small children because they permit much building up and tearing down, and permit so many novel tasks the child can set for himself. At a later age, Tinker Toys and the mechanical building sets are perhaps the most desirable type of playthings as well as the least expensive in the long run. Wind-up toys are not usually to be recommended because they so often have sharp edges, their paints sometimes contain poisonous amounts of lead, and the springs usually break within a few days. Provide plenty of paper to cut up and mark with crayons and a small blackboard if possible, also picture books in abundance. Teach the child to make as many of his own toys as possible, for the enjoyment 539 of making them is often as great as in using them. A well planned play room will soon become the most favored haunt in the house, and it will save the work and trouble of having the play things all over the house. The child should be left as much alone in the play room as is consistent with safety and peace among the other children. Occasionally the mother should interfere to settle difficulties among the children and to see that the child follows his daily routine. She should see that the child has plenty of interesting materials at hand and sometimes even play with him to get him interested in some new activity, but in general she should leave him to himself as much as possible. Before two years of age, as we saw in the lesson on social development, the child takes little interest in cooperating with playmates. It is not necessary, therefore, to provide playmates before this age and the child should be taught to play alone rather than to depend too much upon people to provide his amusement. After two years, however, he does begin to take an interest in other children and will play first in pairs and later in larger groups. It is important to see that the child has playmates of suitable age after he is two years of age. His social development is greatly hindered when he has no opportunity to learn to share with others and to cooperate with them. Outside play is generally to be preferred to indoor because it is more healthful, and because it gives the child more opportunity for a wide range of activity. After about four years of age, children generally become interested in group games with progressively more complex tules. These games generally call 540 for plenty of room. Some parents make the mistake of putting the growth of a beautiful flower bed ahead of the development of the child. If possible a special yard of sufficient size should be provided for outdoor games. A certain amount of play apparatus can be constructed at a small cost and should be considered a necessity in any home building program. (For suggestions on economical out-door play materials see "The Child from One to Six," Publication No. 30, Children's Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor.) Many parents say, "Yes, my child will play; but what can I do to make him work?" Children should probably be taught early in their lives that some things must be done other than tasks of their own choosing. Routine in infant care is a good preparation for work habits in later years. The task should be carefully chosen and should not tax the child's strength and sense of responsibility so much that he will be forced to fail. Choose first those things that you are sure he can and will do, then gradually build his sense of responsibility by more difficult tasks, taking special care always to avoid a breakdown in his willingness. Naturally the more interest the task holds, the more easily he can be motivated. Some chores about a home are simply too dull for the child to ever want to do them for their own sake, in which event the parent must look for ways to motivate him. An appeal can sometimes be made to his selffeelings by pointing out his value and usefulness to you. Everyone likes to feel that he is necessary to someone else. Expression of appreciation is often neglected by the parent, and naturally when the job is distasteful the child cannot be expected to do it cheerfully unless he RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gets something out of it in the way of praise, sense of being useful, or some material reward. Sometimes he can be shown that everyone has to do things he or she does not like to do, and that mother herself often does tasks for the child because she is interested in him and that the child should do likewise. This is dangerous ground, however, because devotion to mother can easily be overworked as a motive, and the devotion roc the work are both likely to sufer. It is possible for a parent to cultivate in the child an extreme distaste for work by forcing him to do drudgery with no other incentive except that she tells him to do it. We should look from the child's point of view whenever we set a task for him to do and take care that we do not ask the impossible. This does not mean that we should bribe him into doing everything we ask, but it means that we should set up some kind of incentive whenever we ask a difficult task. Dr. Goddard, who has had much experience in the training of dull boys relates the following incident to illustrate how the ego feelings of the child can be used to lead him to do the work: "John... Is one of the farmer boys, he has been carefully trained and can plough and harrow and drive a team and do various other work when once it is planned out for him. One morning he came over to the stable and the farmer said to him, 'John, you can plough that field today,' but John was not feeling happy. Perhaps he had a bit of indigestion, or he had not slept well. He did not appear with his usual good nature, and as a consequence he replied to the farmer, 'Ain't goin' to plough that field today.' To which the farmer replied pleasantly, 'Not going to plough the field, what do LESSON DEPARTMENT you want todo?' 'Nothing.' 'Nothing? Well all right, do you want to go back to the cottage and rest today? 'I don't know, I don't know, I don't want to do nothing.' 'All right, John, you just do nothing today. You just have a good time doing nothing. I'll find somebody to plough the field and you can do nothing all day. Of course, I am sorry that you don't feel like ploughing the field, because while I can find somebody to plough it, there isn't anybody that can plough it quite so nicely as you can. And the farmer worked about, pretending to do something but in reality waiting for John. John could not withstand that little bit of flattery—any more than a normal person. The fact is, it made him happy and the moment he was happy the whole situation changed. After a few minutes he came along, perhaps rather sheepishly and said, 'Well, I guess I'll plough the field.' He got the thing that made him happy." (Goddard, H. H., Psychology of the Normal and Subnormal, pp. 324, 325.) Old and young alike need a balance between work and play. Mothers would have better mental health if they would give themselves up to play more often. If a sharp dis- 541 tinction is drawn between work and play in the home, a great step is taken toward eliminating dawdling, procrastination, and slovenliness. The habit of working while we work so that we can really play while we play is invaluable for old and young. Problems For Discussion 1. Show how play contributes to muscular, intellectual, and personality growth. 2. Why is excessive parental interference incompatible with real play? 3. Characterize the difficulties you would expect the child to meet on his first steady job as an adult when he has never done any chores or regular work at home. What difficulties in marriage would you expect a girl to meet when she has grown up under a mother who has always assumed all responsibility for the "chores"? 4. What is the effect on the child when the parents are too arbitrary in insisting that he do dull tasks without proper incentives? 5. What concrete measures can you take to improve the conditions in your home so that the children will have better play opportunities?
ONLY A SMILE By Josephine Gardner Moench
A kindly smile and a pleasant word May break through barriers wide, And lead us back to common ground, When differences abide.
We might exchange some recipes, Or favorite flower seed, Or give a timely word of praise, Of which we're all in need.
And lo! The barrier may vanish quite, Like mist before the sun, And bitterness and quarrels end Before they're scarce begun.
In Profound Appreciation of All My Misfortunes By Isaac B. Ball
ON December 11, 1919, the little town of Enterprise, Alabama, erected the most unusual monument of which I have ever heard. It was a monument to the boll weevil, that notorious crop pest which brought alarming havoc to Alabama, and in fact to all the cotton growing states of the South. Here are the very words engraven on this monument by the very citizens who were victims of this voracious insect marauder: "In profound appreciation of the Boll Weevil and what it has done as Herald of prosperity, this monument is erected by the citizens of Enterprise, Alabama."
Likewise, I personally would erect a monument to the misfortunes and the difficulties that have strewn my pathway through life thus far, and that have brought such havoc and suffering to my feelings and peace of mind. I would erect a monument to my calamities and defeats in profound appreciation of what they have done as "heralds" of deeper inner growths and of higher upward strivings. And I write this in the full conviction that my own experience is but one common to human life in general.
After the scourge of the Mexican cotton boll weevil had come to Enterprise, Coffee County, Alabama, and had shaken its citizens out of the ruts of narrow traditional cropping systems and soil destroying practices, and had set them upon the highroad to better and more lucrative farming procedures, this community began to realize that what had seemed to be unmitigated loss and misfortune was in truth a blessing in disguise.
So also have I, in common, with almost every one else, in his own particular life, lived to see my losses and heart-breaking failures turn out to be friends and trainers for a better life than I had known before was possible for me.
"Of all possible universes in which to live, this one is seven times the worst"—thus have I sworn many times when the going was tough, and thus has many another distraught soul. But afterwards have I sensed the truth in these lines,
My name is Defeat—but through the bitter fight, To those who know, I'm something more than friend: For I can build beyond the wrath of might, And drive all yellow from the blend: For those who quit, I am the final blow, But for the brave who seek their chance to learn, I show the way, at last, beyond the foe, To where the scarlet flames of triumph burn.
"Where the scarlet flames of triumph burn"—anything that can bring you or me to that place of heart's desire deserves our tribute and perhaps a grateful monument. And the particular fellow that can do that for any one is—Defeat. Good old Defeat! Good old Trouble! Good old Hard Luck! Good old Sorrow! All these that we fear and shrink from so naturally prove to be true friends, a bit gruff, 'tis true, but IN PROFOUND APPRECIATION 543 still a good, none-better, group of trainers for the real battles of life.
SWEET are the uses of adversity." They bring us benefits otherwise lost. To be droopy because of them is foolish. Showers alternate with sunshine, sorrows with pleasures, pain and weariness with comfort and rest; but the wise accept the one as necessary as the other and learn to enjoy both.
MY PIONEER MOTHER By Grace Zenor Pratt
Pioneer Mother, we have seen the light of faith In your clear eyes looking to westward there Across the years; the far-flung vistas of your dreams Have helped to make the wilderness a place of beauty, And the rose has blossomed with your tenderness and grace.
You saw beyond the billowing sage and sandy plain—, Beyond the toilsome present to some future day, Far into time itself where faith must sometimes bring Fulfillment to your dreams,—unselfish, triumphing.
Looking, still forward, you forgot the ceaseless toil Your hands wrought willingly; all unafraid you held A torch on high and that small spark of courage Has illumined the darkness; now a steady flame— It is a light which burns within our souls And beckons on to higher nobler things...
Pioneer Mother, your calm eyes have seen beyond grey dawns, Beyond rose-colored sunset, mirage, gloom and doubt—, Forgetting self, you saw the glory of the years to be— You saw the gleaners reap the fields you sowed in patience, Bring in their sheaves of song and harmony and rhythmic beauty; And that was all your generous and loving heart would ask... That we who followed you might find a lighter and an easier task...
A Little Trip to Yellowstone Park By Ida R. Alldredge
THE dream of years was to be realized. I was actually to see that mystery of the ages, "The Yellow Stone Park." But how different was the real thing to the picture that I had carried in my mind. My wildest fancies had but feebly portrayed the scene which was now before me.
For miles we had traveled beneath the majestic pines standing as sentinels guarding the way of the weary traveler. Stopping to rest almost at the very gates we spent the night in a rustic log cabin on the banks of a beautiful stream which was lined on either side with rushes and gigantic trees. The cry of the hoot-owl only added to the beauty of the place. Loathe to leave this peaceful spot we hastened on hardly knowing what to expect at our journey's end, but thrilled with the beauties of nature which surrounded us.
After entering the gates we again traveled through the whispering pines whose feet laved in the cool water of the Snake river. Suddenly from the center of the stream there spouted, high into the air, a stream of boiling water rising and falling in rhythmic measure. Threading our way through a forest, with a carpet of green on either side, we passed small groves of trees standing naked before us, their huge white trunks gleaming in the sunlight while their bare arms pointed towards the heaven, as if asking a final benediction. Far up the mountainside smoke curled higher and higher. Or was it smoke? No, just another geyser sending forth its steaming spray.
In a clearing not far from the road we beheld a magic picture. The earth was arrayed in gorgeous colors—yellow, orange, green, blue and pink, with varied shades of purple, all bathed in the warm waters from an outlet far above, while to the side a pool of mammoth size reflected the rainbow hues.
Continuing upon our way we were suddenly aware of a rumbling, as if a thunderstorm were approaching, but this time it came from the bowels of the earth. One hardly knew but that it might open at his very feet and claim him for its prey.
ONE of the most beautiful pictures of the entire trip was the "Morning Glory Pool," which lay peacefully upon the bosom of the earth. Shaped as the blossom from which it derived its name, its dainty pink blended into the delicate blue, the shadows cast deeper shades into its unfathomable depths.
The punch bowl with its scalloped edges rising about a foot above the ground is also well named. Its bubbling contents makes one wonder if it never tires of its perpetual motion. We turned from this to the paint pots. They too bubble but unlike the punch bowl the contents is thick and muddy.
After going a short distance farther we were attracted by a loud roaring and in a moment we were standing, looking in awe at what is called the "Dragon's Mouth." We heard the rising and falling of the water within the mighty chasm of the mountain, dashing against its walls and then with a mighty roar spitting it forth as A LITTLE TRIP TO YELLOWSTONE PARK 545 if happy to rid itself of something unclean. One longs to gaze into that huge chasm and study the forces that threaten to destroy and rip from its foundation the mountain which shields it.
Hesitatingly we left this fascinating monster to view its neighbor, the "Mud geyser," that claimed as one of its victims a chubby cherub, who answered the call of his childish questionings and helplessly yielded to its diabolical force. It belches, then swallows with a monotonous regularity. We shook ourselves free from its uncanny influence and hastened on our way lest it overtake us and lure us into its terrible embrace.
Again we stood upon a heaving structure of earth, rent in twain by countless smaller eruptions and we seemed to actually feel the earth shake beneath our feet. Everywhere the earth has opened up and hot water belches forth unmindful of its visitors who dare not trust their host.
TIME pressed but we must not leave until we had paid our respect to "Old Faithful," which rises to a height of over a hundred and fifty feet in unfailing regularity, measuring the hours year by year. As a last farewell we stopped to view the river which through countless ages has cut its way through mighty gorges leaping into the chasms thousands of feet below. Purple shadows play upon the gigantic cliffs on either side. Step by step we descended into the deepening shadows until we stood beneath the waterfall, sheltered from the foamy spray.
We left the park behind just as evening's curtains closed about us and folded us in the mantle of the night. The clouds hung heavy in the sky sending forth their tears, when lo! A magic rainbow spanned the heavens giving us hope and courage to climb the heights to higher and better things.
OUR PIONEERS By Ella J. Coulam
They are so valiant—those old Pioneers, And wise with wisdom that long living brings, Old folks who have traveled through the years Facing dire hardships and conquering things.
The way was made so plain for them to take And in humility they knelt in prayer Then blazed the trail for their religion's sake Trusting in God for His protecting care.
A look of recompense is in their eyes, Their silver hair is God's great diadem. Through courage and endurance they are wise, Unchanging love dwells in the hearts of them.
The brilliant rays of their setting sun Proclaim to the world—a victory won.
Answered (A True Story) By Fern J. B. Russon
A SLIM little lady with a halo of wavy gray hair and a shy, sweet face sat on the back row in the cozy Relief Society room. She always sat there, as her retiring nature demanded just such a place. She was an earnest member, and as a visiting teacher had many a day trudged through heat of sun and cold of snow and wind to carry comforting words into a bereaved home. Many a night she had stood faithfully near a weary mother, worn with anxious hours of waiting and watching over a sick child. Many a dish of hot wholesome food had she carried to the lonely old couple around the corner from her little home.
But she was so shy. Timidity always conquered when she felt an urge to arise and give voice to the testimony that lay deep and sincere in her heart. Timidity tied her tongue when she felt sure she knew the answer to a question or the proper solution of a problem in the lesson. Timidity nearly ruined her joy every time the idea struck her that the Sister in charge might call on her to offer the opening prayer. And if such a calamity passed her by, she would sit in fear until some one else had been called to pronounce the benediction. But as the years went by and her anxieties had proven groundless, she gained a slight degree of assurance that she needn't worry.
One day when she really didn't happen to be thinking about it, she was startled by the softly spoken words, "Sister Silver, will you offer the opening prayer for us, please?"
She sat for an instant, stupefied. Then, quickly sensing the silence hanging on her response, she said slowly and in a low tone, "I'd rather not. I'm sorry."
SOME one else answered the repeated request and nothing was said about the refusal. Apparently, it was only what almost anyone there would expect from shy, sweet Sister Silver. But down in the heart of the little lady in the back row, there was turmoil, chilling her, reproving her.
"Anna May Silver, why did you do that?" chided a voice within her. "Where is your testimony? What has become of your faith—the faith left to you as a heritage from your pioneer parents and strengthened by your activities in this organization? Really, you ought to be ashamed."
And she was ashamed. "You ought to arise and apologize before this group," continued her prompter, "and tell your President she didn't deserve that answer from you."
These darts and more pricked her soul. She looked sorrowfully at her leader, then bent her head and rested her eyes on the cold, thin hands in her lap. She prayed a deep, silent prayer, "Lord in Heaven, forgive my weakness and my refusal. Truly, Lord, I repent and plead for Thy help in this my hour of great need."
PRESENTLY conscience, whose stern voice first aroused her, was silent. Only Faith and Courage came to meet her and each took one ANSWERED of Anna May's hands in her own warm ones. Faith looked firmly into her eyes and said, "Your mother bent low in sorrow over the new-made grave of her first-born somewhere out there amid the stones and the storms of Wyoming. She offered a prayer, 'Lord, I do thank thee for the sweetness this little one has brought into my life. And now wilt Thou watch over his grave and keep his spirit safe with Thee? I thank Thee for the other child given to me and for others that may yet be given. Help me, Lord, to ever praise Thy wisdom and trust in Thy kindness.'"
Courage said, "Anna May, your father and his companions faced a band of howling hideous savages to protect the homes where you and dozens of other helpless infants slept, and by the magic of their daring and strength, turned their enemies back on their course and sent them fleeing in terror."
Anna May thought, "And I can stand before my Sisters and give thanks for my blessings and theirs," and a new feeling of strength filled her being.
WHEN she emerged from her introspection, she found the President looking at her with kind, understanding eyes that bore no trace of rebuke and that saw in her face traces of a new emotion she had never before noticed. And now, miracle of miracles, Anna May knew she wanted to pray. She actually wished the President would ask her again. But how was 547 the President to know? She couldn't ask for the privilege could she? But she turned a hopeful glance toward her leader.
Only parts of the lesson here and there did Anna May grasp as she glanced up more often from her lap. And only a thought now and again did the President gather as her eyes wandered increasingly often in Sister Silver's direction. No one noticed the silent little drama being enacted during the peaceful progress of the meeting. No one knew that in the heart of the one there was deep, sincere repentance and a yearning for another chance. And no one knew that in the heart of the other there was simple, divine inspiration that bade her overlook the refusal and read the message written on the pale face in the back row.
At length the lesson ended. It had been beautiful; but not less beautiful was the spirit that had turned a timid refusal into a desire to be asked to pray. The closing song "Prayer is the Soul's Sincere Desire" was sung by the Sisters. Then the President said, "Sister Silver, will you offer the benediction, please?"
The words that fell from Sister Silver's lips in humility and fear, were laden with gratitude, sincerity, and strength. And while some wondered—and still wonder—others realized the battle that had been fought and won in the heart of the little lady in the back of the room.
TO THE DREGS By Eleanor Welch Schow
They told me the dregs would be bitter if softly I sipped the cup; I must drink all the rue and the aloes, and I needs must stir it up. It was mine to drain to the finish, and none but myself could sip; So I trusted In Him who gave it, and raised it to my lip;
But I looked at the loved ones about me, who dreaded to see my pain, And it grieved me to see them sorrow for me, so I sipped again. When none was near to stay me, I imbibed all I could in haste, Though I found it hard to swallow because of an acrid taste;
Sometimes the draught was so bitter I could not be serene, And again it seemed a nectar, and sickly saccharine; At times it was sacrificial, seething hot as a cup of flame; Then 'twas blessedly sacramental, and I quaffed of it in God's name.
When the time came at length to drain it, and the ordeal I braced to meet, Lo! My cup bore a sugar coating, and the dregs were honey sweet.
THE DUST STORM By Sadie Ollorton Clark
The hills are hidden from my eyes today, Great clouds of dust enshroud their barren sweep. The rocks are grimed, the cactus, too, is gray; Oh rust hued sky, is there no cause to weep?
There is no sign of spring in this drear land, The dust destroys the blossoms 'ere they form, And every stream where water flowed, lies sand. There is no grass to hold the dew at morn.
My thoughts turn backward to a spring I knew, High mountain peaks, snow capped, beneath a sky Of purest azure. Clean winds swept on high, And racing clouds were feathers on the blue.
The yellow clouds still roll, yet I can sing, For I still keep the mem'ry of that spring. This booklet will tell you why. It will tell you about opportunities in the field of business, and about the requirements of those who qualify for the better positions. It will tell about our courses, methods of study, rates of tuition, employment service, and other matters of interest to those who seek business training. L. D. 5. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City RS So Bick Bride— All the details of apparel, stationery, etc., in her great adventure are of the utmost importance. Correctness and smartness are our watchwords in Wedding Stationery. See our smart new line. Prices $7.00 And up for 100 Wedding Invitations or Announcements. NV a The Deseret News Press 29 Richards St. Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine The art of music, to be mastered, requires years of diligent study and a firmly established habit of practice. It is well to begin a child's musical education early— when habits are more easily formed. It is well, also, to teach your children the habit of saving while they are still children. A Beneficial policy, through the regular payment of premiums, is a most effective means to this end. When they are grown, the young men and women who started out as children with Beneficial policies will have reserve funds with which to complete their education—musical or otherwise. It is never too early to insure a child. Consult your nearest Beneficial agent or write the home office. EFICIA | oR CE). S. OMPANY HOME OFFICE-—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT Vol. XXIV SEPTEMBER, 1937 Between Summer wd Winter... HERE'S WHAT YOUR CAR NEEDS Pep 88 gasoline in autumn formula, climate-controlied for maximum performance during cool nights and warm days! Vico motor oil in the cor lcO cialized Lubrication—not just a greasing—with MOTOR Oil. Proper lubricants for safety and economy! PEPS Drive in where you see the Pep 88—Vico sign. Stations Everywhere in Utah and Idaho YOU TOO MAY BUILD FINANCIAL INDEPENDENCE SAFELY FOR 31 YEARS WE HAVE PAID REGULAR DIVIDENDS a INVEST 50c to $100.00 Monthly Our Shares have a fixed value of 100 Cents on the Dollar and do not decline in value being FULLY INSURED up to $5000.00 by a FEDERAL AGENCY Deseret Federal Savings and Loan Assn SS pike When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Vice rect grade for your engine in this season! IF WE DIDN'T HAVE TO EAT! Such expressions from women who are over-worked, who can't stand warm weather or who find their means running a little low. We believe you can correct all these ailments by shopping earlier with us while the day is cool and by making early selections of fresh fruits, vegetables, lunch meats and other perishables—Send 'Hubby' once in a while and let him see the fine bargains we have for your family then you will O.P. SKAGGS be wishing you had more time to eat. "A Surety of Purity'' Service Above All PROVO —. OGDEN — PRICE — PAYSON — MANTI DESERET MORTUARY COMPANY Fruits Vegetables Bakery and Party Suggestions Complete Line…Meats Delicatessen CRYSTAL...1 st South at 3rd East—ll7th South at 5th East Party South Temple at 2nd East Suggestions Home of. "Famous Laddie Boy Bread and Danish Pastry" "We Feature" Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Voit. XXIV SEPTEMBER, 1937 No. 9 CONTENTS Where the Virgin River Flows..Lydia Hall 549 Frontispiece 2.0.0.0 $50 Utah Becomes Art Conscious....Grant The Lotus Eater 22...Mabel S. Harmer 554 The Next Hill.........Ella J. Coulam 557 How Do We Know?......Nephi Jensen 558 Pioneer Woman..........Myrtle Wentworth 562 Happenings ….Annie Wells Cannon 563 Creator of Opportunities.......La Rene King Bleecker 564 The Fool Hath Said There Is No God................. Miriam C, Bitner 567 Sold For Taxes......Pearl W. Peterson 568 Little Moments of Eternity.....Lella Marler Hoggan 573 Needle Point Nettie K, Miller 577 An Interesting Shut In........Annaleone Davis Patton 581 The Institute at the University of Wyoming.............Lorene Pearson 587 To the Daughter of a Pioneer................ Cece seen eeeClaire Stewart Boyer 589 Notes from the Field...... MR. Julia A. F. Lund 590 Editorials: Happiness 594 Some Helpful Suggestions 596 Lesson Department........597 The Boy and the Cigarette…Francis W. Kirkham 616 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 980 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. "Everything io Furnish the Home" THE GREATEST VARIETY AND LARGEST STOCK OF Living Room, Dining Room and Bedroom Furniture in the Intermountain 400 Suites to Choose From Granite Furniture Co. Out of the High Rent District The Home of THE ROUND OAK RANGE AND AMERICAN BEAUTY WASHER Quality and Service Come First—We Deliver Everywhere The NATIONAL sovees" Are the Children's Clothes Ready for School? The new manager is an active Relief Society teacher. She will appreciate your business Special attention given to mail orders and out of town patrons Brigham Young University Strong Character is The Rock To Build On _ Brigham Young University is not content to provide standard college training. The institution also strives in all ways to help give the life of each student a foundation of strong, high character. Because the keystone of character is a vigorous svirituality. B. Y. U. Seeks to develop this quality: the vision to see the finer and higher things, and the will to help mankind achieve them. TRAINING FOR SCORES OF OCCUPATIONS: Sixteen Hundred Courses REGISTRATION: September 24, 25, 27 Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 224 East Sth South Five Colleges Wasatch 1835 Thirty-five Departments FOR YOUR CHILD You want the best of everything for your child. One of the best of all foods is FISHER'S VITAMIN D BREAD Product of AMERICAN LADY BAKING CO. The Big Home-Owned Bakery Headquarters BOOKS of every description GIFTS for every occasion GREETING CARDS for every memorable day "More books in the home" DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah "FOUR WAYS BETTER" KNIGHT'S 1—Starts Quicker. 2—Burns Longer. BE SURE YOU RECEIVE THE ONE AND ONLY GENUINE UTAH "SPRING CANYON COAL 3—Less Soot. 4—Less Ash "ASK YOUR DEALER" Deafened? Hard of Hearing? Let ACOUSTICON restore you to normal hearing and enjoy CHURCH ACTIVITIES, and family relations as others do. Finest Hearing Aids. ACOUSTICON, World's The result of 35 years of Scientific research. Free test and demonstration given by trained Consultants. Acousticon Institute of Salt Lake City 202 Brooks Arcade Building Telephone Wasatch 7004 GET THE GENUINE ACOUSTICON AND HEAR When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Where the Virgin River Flows By Lydia Hall There's a larid in Southern Utah I will always love the best, Where the sunlight and the moonlight | Gild the hills with loveliness, Where the regal, tall, white yucca And the sego lily grows Down in Utah's dear old Dixie Where the Virgin river flows. Land of rainbow colored canyons, Valleys glorious and grand, Land of sunshine and of cactus, Purple sage and desert sand, Where the mocking bird is singing When the Summer morning glows Down in Utah's dear old Dixie Where the Virgin river flows. Dixie, homeland of my fathers, I would live forever here Where the brightest stars are gleamin And the skies are blue and clear; Here is peace and here is beauty, Here man can forget his woes, Here I find my earthly Heaven Where the Virgin river flows. The (Relief Society" Magazine VoL. XXIV SEPTEMBER, 1937 No. 9 Utah Becomes Art Conscious By Ruth Grant RIGHAM YOUNG once said, B "If I were placed upon a cannibal island and given the task of civilizing its inhabitants, I would straightway build a theatre." He might just as easily have said, "A music hall or an art gallery," for he realized fully that the highest type of civilization finds expression in such fruits of the fine arts as come from an appreciation of the best in drama, literature, music and painting. The people of Utah are "art conscious" to rather a high degree— and they should be. Perhaps they should be much more than they are considering their heritage from the past and the inspiration which should come from such beautiful surroundings. ROM the very first day that the pioneers entered the valley and gazed upon the gray and purple of its sagebrush stretches they were taught that, "Man does not live by bread alone," although, at that time, the struggle for bread was enough to test the mettle of the most valiant of the band. In spite of all hardships, the leader insisted that the seeking after the artistic and spiritual things of life must be a daily part of the lives of these strugglers. Two brass bands were included in the first companies to leave Illinois on the westward trek and, no matter how footsore and weary the people might be after trudging all day over the trackless plains, the. Evenings were spent in song and dance around the campfire, providing conditions were at all favorable. Thus was implanted in their hearts, along with the need for the preservation of the body, a desire for the expression of the soul. The missionary system of the Church also played an important part in laying a foundation for artistic effort and appreciation among its people by bringing as converts splendid artists in various lines from all parts of the world. By this means from Australia came Ridges, the organ builder; from Wales, Giles, the blind harpist, and from other countries the painters Weggeland, Ottinger and Hafen. Utah drew these artists here because her rugged barriers constituted a haven of refuge from religious intolerance and then, having brought them here, offered for their inspiration scenery with beauty unparalleled in the entire world. Gigantic canyons with granite rocks and ledges topped by green pines, Rae mountains whose color and imagery defy exaggeration, deserts that are brilliant and harsh in the noonday sun or soft and hazy in the mauve of evening and sunsets that are miracles of beauty. Every road leads toa new vista of loveliness. Every hour of the day changes the mood of the landscape with a turn of nature's kaleidoscope. AND what have the people of the state done to carry on the splendid work begun by those pioneer artists? What use have they made of the magnificent natural beauties which surround them? Many have worked energetically to keep art on the pinnacle it deserves and to enable others to experience the joy and satisfaction that has come to them. As far back as 1892 a group of early Utah artists organized the first society in the territory for the stimulation of ar', under the name of the "Society of Utah Artists." These pioneers in the field of art appreciation included J. Will Clawson, Edwin Evans, John Hafen, J. T. Harwood, T_crus Pratt, J. B. Fairbanks and Herman Hagg. They put on an exhibition once a year, in any available building, and as it was during the depression days of Grover Cleveland's administration there were many enipty buildings. Through their efforts, they made very definite progress towards first making Salt Lake City "art conscious." Their organization continued active until 1899 when it was, in a measure, supplanted by the Utah Art Institute. WHEN Utah became a state in 1896, one of the first acts of the new legislature was the creation of the Utah Art Institute for the furtherance of art, making Utah the first state in the union to enact such a measure. At times the biennial RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE appropriation has been as high as $2000 to carry on the purposes of the institute, while at other times, a legislature more interested in other matters has made the appropriation much lower. One of the outstanding results of this measure was the creation of the permanent collection of the works of Utah artists which is housed in the State Capitol and named the "Alice Art Collection" in honor of Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne.. A great deal of credit must be given to Mrs. Horne for her work in the advancement of art in the state, both from the standpoint of what she has done to assist individual artists and what she has done to enhance the appreciation of art on the part of the public generally. She fought for years to gain adequate appropriation from the various state legislatures and has sponsored countless exhibitions throughout the state. She has also given valuable assistance to, schools that were beginning their permanent collections. "T'HE community which has done most for the furtherance of art is the city of Springville. The results of its efforts are outstanding, not only in Utah, but in the entire country. Each year the exhibit draws the works of famous artists throughout the nation and during one month people come from all over the state to view the splendid collection. A common question during April is, "Have you seen the Springville exhibition yet?" and if one must answer in the negative, he hastens to add, "But I'm going to." The idea had its origin because Springville was the home of the great artist, John Hafen and the noted sculptor, Cyrus Dallin. Not many miles away were born two other fine artists, Edwin Evans and J. T. Harwood. UTAH BECOMES The exhibit has been under the direct sponsorship of the High School but almost every member of the community, young and old, does his bit to cooperate in this splendid project. Otherwise, such wonderful success could not have been achieved. One class makes it a yearly practice to buy one of the pictures on exhibition. The purchase fund must be made up throughout the vear nickel by nickel. There is a candy sale one week, a dance or play the next, until by one means or «nother, the nickels grow into enougl: dollars to buy a beautiful painting tor the permanent collection of tiie school. The exhibition now las an added interest because of the jue new art gallery that has recently Leen erected to house the pictures. The building, which was made possible partly through government funds, is architecturally a fitting background for the treasures it will hold. The national exhibition can now, for the first time, be displayed to the best advantage and, in addition, there will be a space for the school's permanent collection to be on display during the national exhibition, which has not been possible before. THER schouls throughout the state, perhaps following the splendid example set by the Springville school, are working hard to acquire a creditable gallery of paintings. Two such are the North Cache High School, whose gallery has been named for Miss Florence' Ware and the South Cache who have named ART CONSCIOUS 553 theirs in honor of Lawrence Squires, a young artist of great promise who died a few years ago. OTEWORTHY among recent efforts to make the people of the state art conscious, has been the building of the Art Barn. Here in a charming setting on the east bench of Salt Lake City is the tasteful building made possible through the earnest efforts of Mrs. John Jensen and others. New exhibits are hung every few weeks and the lover of art is welcome to go to the Art Barn at any time and enjoy the beautiful paintings. Other phases of the fine arts also are promoted by groups who meet there to study music, drama or creative writing. With the Federal sponsorship of art through the W. P. A., which has been carried on in this state under the efficient direction of Miss Judy Lund, a new era has opened up for artists and art lovers which should have far reaching results. Upwards of $50,000 has been spent within the past few years and 36 artists have been employed in worthwhile artistic projects. Among the noteworthy accomplishments of these artists were the painting of the beautiful murals at the State Capitol and at the veteran's hospital. With the heritage of the inspiration of the pioneers, the support of nation and state, and the matchless scenery within our boundaries, the future of art in Utah should be a brilliant one. The Lotus Eater By Mabel S. Harmer CHAPTER IV EFORE Helen had been at the B ranch house a week she had put the new curtains up at all of the windows with a wonderfully cheering effect. She had polished furniture and scrubbed floors and woodwork until Dan had begged her to desist. Finally he had hired a woman from Medford to come in and scrub until Helen was entirely satisfied. "Now I must have gallons of paint," she announced. "The kitchen is to be a lovely shade of blue with coral trimmings. We will do our bedroom in orchid and—" "Who is going to spread all these gallons of paint around?" interrupted Dan amused. "Why I am, of course. I love to paint. And couldn't you do the outside of the house or have someone else do it? It looks 'so terribly weatherbeaten." "Well—I guess I could," answered Dan dubiously. 'But it looks as good as the other houses in the valley, doesn't it?" "Tt does—but it doesn't look good enough. Won't you try, dear?" she asked, perching herself on an arm of his chair and rumpling his dark hair. "T'll do all I can," Dan promised, "but paint is mighty expensive, you know, and I don't have any spare time in the summer with all the stock to be looked after." Helen had to be satisfied with this much encouragement and as soon as she could get the paint she started vigorously to work upon the interior of the house. THE longed for a garden and gathered a few slips of flowers from friends in Medford but she discovered that growing a garden in this climate where frost was likely to strike at any time during the summer was a very discouraging affair. She thought enviously of the garden in her home in California where roses bloomed all the year around with almost no effort on the part of the gardener. IN spite of all her efforts to make the kitchen attractive it remained exactly the opposite of her dreams of what a bride's kitchen should look like. The ugly black kitchen range and the washstand were her special antipathies. She polished the stove until it shone but it was still a monstrosity in her eyes, that blackened everything that came within reach. She had painted the washstand a gay coral and hung her pretty embroidered towels above it but it simply didn't belong, and the tin wash basin and Dan's inevitably half soiled towel hanging about were a constant eyesore. Dan was highly amused when she insisted upon dragging the round washtub into the kitchen every day for a bath, but she had her own turn at inward amusement and gratification when she noticed him picking up many of her habits of personal cleanliness and daintiness. IN spite of the inconveniences of her home and the loneliness of ranch life Helen was very happy. There was a thrill in making her home as nice as she could. She had her music and would play on her THE LOTUS EATER violin, sometimes by the hour and best of all she and Dan had their love for one another which was more tender and sweet even than Helen had dreamed. Dan was utterly devoted to her and when she sat out on their tiny porch of a summer evening with her head on Dan's shoulder and gazed over the soft green meadows of the valley, she felt a contentment and happiness such as she had never before experienced. T was Dan's suggestion that they give a party in their "new" home. He was not particularly fond of parties but he was dreadfully afraid that Helen would become lonesome. "We'll invite the gang in and show them what a pretty wife and a nifty house looks like," he said, beaming at Helen with pride. "Oh, I'd love it, Dan,' cried Helen, her eyes shining. "It will give me a chance to use the best linen cloth I bought in Omaha and the silver candlesticks that Aunt Margie sent and Nina's crystal goblets. "Gosh, honey!" protested Dan, "do we have to put on a lot of swank? Can't we just let the crowd come and have a gay time?" "They can sit down to a decently set table and still have a good time, can't they?" asked Helen a bit coolly. "I thought that you wanted my friends to see my nice things." "Well I do, of course," answered Dan rather dubiously, "only—well, go ahead, it's your party and you have it the way you want it." Helen set to work with a vim preparing for her party. She sent away for rose-colored candlesticks to match the goblets and managed to cut enough blossoms and leaves from her geraniums for a centerpiece. When the table was set with the gleaming new silver, the handsome linen cloth and the pretty glass and 555 chinaware that had come as wedding presents, it was the loveliest that she had seen in years. She had made nut cups from rose crepe paper and painted dainty little place cards by hand. Dan had stayed at home all day to help prepare the dinner and had worked valiantly at paring potatoes, beating egg whites and anything else that needed a strong right arm and a willing hand. He wished like everything that Helen had been content to have a "plain spread" but her joy in her pretty new things was so great that he didn't have the heart to spoil her fun. Helen wore her blue wedding dress and looked prettier than ever with her cheeks flushed rosy with pleasure and excitement. The guests were all friends of Dan's, some of whom Helen knew only slightly but she hoped that after tonight they would be her friends also and would be the means of opening up some kind of social life for them. The ten guests they had invited arrived in their cars by twos or fours and Helen took them first to her bedroom to remove their wraps. They were gay enough when they first arrived but the minute they entered the front room where the table had been set up, a damper seemed to fall upon their spirits and they sat around the room and gazed at the formally set table with distinctly antagonistic eyes. One of Dan's particular friends, Jim Lawson, had had trouble with his car on the way out and asked to be allowed to wash his hands. Dan had taken him to the kitchen and Helen stepped inside the door in time to hear him say as Dan handed him an embroidered guest towel, "Oh, my deah, how fawncy." Both men flushed hotly when they turned and saw her there and the incident served to make all three of them 556 still more uncomfortable for the evening. Dan helped Helen serve the dinner and between them they tried to keep the conversation going but it lagged painfully in spite of their best efforts. The games that Helen had prepared for their enjoyment after the dinner were no more of a success and the last guest had departed at an hour that was still early. Helen flung herself down on the couch and burst into tears. "I'm awfully sorry, honey," said Dan gathering her into his arms. "They didn't mean to hurt you. It's just that they didn't understand." "Didn't understand what?' sobbed Helen indignantly. "They think that because you are from the city and are educated that you are trying to show off." "Show off!" repeated Helen scornfully. Does that mean that we have to use a red checkered tablecloth and old dishes when we have company?" "We might have a better time if we did," said Dan with a half smile. "But never you mind, when they know you better they won't be afraid of your fancy do-dads and in the meantime we'll go sassiety and use them ourselves." It was a long time before Helen forgot the disappointment and chagrin caused by the failure of her dinner party but gradually she came to be accepted among the "married crowd" and to join in with them at house parties or church socials. For some queer reason there was a sharp dividing line in the community between the ''young folks' and the "married folks' and the crowd that Helen and Dan had gone around with the year before had dropped them completely. They were definitely relegated to the older group. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE HE winter's snow came to stay before Thanksgiving Day and shortly after that Helen knew that she was going to have a child. Her first feeling was one of fear at the unknown path that she was to tread but it gradually gave way to joy as she became more reassured. There had been a good many other thousands of babies born, she decided and her experience probably wouldn't be greatly different from the others. It would be glorious to have a pink cuddly baby in the house to love and play with. She was sure that after the baby came she would never again be lonely. In the meantime during the long winter months she became terribly lonely. There were days at a time when Dan had to be away from home taking supplies out to the men who were taking care of the sheep or taking a carload of cattle to Omaha. Sometimes Dan's younger sister stayed with her but this necessitated such a long drive for the girl to and from school that more often Helen was forced to stay alone. During the day she did not mind so much, but at night when the howls of the wind were mingled with those of the coyotes she shivered close to the fire in near terror. Dan's attitude toward the coming of the baby had amazed her. He was not at all filled with the joy of parenthood as she supposed all prospective fathers should be but was entirely concerned with her own safety and well-being. At times he even offered dire threats against "the judge" as he had already christened the baby, should the mother's comfort be too greatly disturbed. They had decided to go to Dan's sister's home in Riverton two weeks before the expected arrival so that they would be close to the only hospital in the valley, but before they THE LOTUS EATER had even reached the town, Helen found that her long period of waiting was over and they drove directly to the hospital. "We'll have a room ready for your wife in a few minutes," said the nurse in a most matter of fact tone," and Dr. Ward will be in this evening.". "This evening!" gasped Dan. "But my wife is sick. We want him right now." The nurse smiled back agreeably as she said, "But he is out of town and won't be back until evening. You needn't worry anyway. There is always plenty of time with the first one." Some hours later the Doctor arrived at the hospital and called first upon Helen and then came down to where Dan was alternately pacing the floor and squirming about on a squeaky chair in the small waiting room. "Not a thing to worry about," he announced in the same happy manner that the nurse had used. "Your wife is doing very nicely. Here is the Cheyenne Daily,' he continued, handing Dan a paper. "Did you see where the Braves won their third straight today?" 557 Dan glared first at the Doctor and then at the paper as he thrust the latter out of sight. The Doctor looked at him and then chuckled. "Take it easy, young fellow," he said as he left to go upstairs again, "I never lost a father yet." Towards morning Dan crept into Helen's room where she lay white but serene on her pillow. "Are you all right, honey?" he asked in shaken tones. She reached out her hand toward him and managed a feeble smile. "T'm all right," she said. '"They're dressing the baby. They'll bring him here in a minute." Dan turned as the nurse entered with a small bundle wrapped in a fluffy blue blanket. "Here he is," she said triumphantly, "Isn't he a fine boy?" Dan gazed awe-struck while the baby moved a tiny clenched fist. Then he visibly expanded and a broad grin covered his face. "I'll tell the world he's a fine boy," he said in a voice which left no doubt of his conviction. (To be Continued) THE NEXT HILL By Ella J. Coulam I go in search of Autumn leaves All crimson, mauve, and gold; I climb the little winding trail More beauty to behold. Each turn reveals more splendor, As on and on I go, For always over the next hill The choicest leaves will grow. How Do We Know? By Nephi Jensen Nineteenth Century one of the popular subjects of discussion among the intelligentia was the question of spontaneous generation of life. Does life originate in lifeless substance? Does life come from the lifeless? For several decades these interesting questions challenged the thought of profound thinkers and eminent scholars. Surface indications seemed to favor the advocates of spontaneous generation. On every hand it was observed that worms, maggots, and flies came into life in multitudinous swarms, in decaying vegetables and fruits and in decaying flesh. Whence came these multiforms of living things? From lifeless substance, said the adherents of the theory that life comes from the non-living. IN the fifties and sixties of the FOR a time practically all scientists fell in with this view. About this time there was living in France a young ambitious scientist who was destined to immortal fame. He was inclined to question the theory of. Spontaneous generation. His name is Pasteur. He commenced to surmise that the maggots that suddenly commenced to develop in decaying flesh might be the result of germinal life coming into contact with the decomposing flesh. At that time nothing was known of micro-organisms. Pasteur's faint surmise led him to make some very simple experiments. For example, he placed pieces of meat in a jar and covered the opening with closely knit gauze. He observed that no animal life developed inside the jar; but that lusty wiggling things appeared outside of the gauze. The conclusion was forced upon the young experimenter that there must be infinitesimal life germs floating about in the air; and that it was because these microbes come into contact with substance in which they can breed, that new visible life forms result.: Through long tedious persistent and industrious years he continued his indefatigable experiments. In time he discovered the bacteriological theory of disease. Which gave rise to the great modern science of medicine, and antiseptic surgery. And the man who wrought so splendidly with the marvelous tools of experimentation came to be called "The most perfect man to enter the Kingdom of Science." The appellation is hardly exaggerated. The story of Pasteur's successful experiments and investigations furnishes one of the noblest chapters in the history of the modern scientific method, which has flooded our world with the glory of light and truth. N recent decades science has made it possible for us to make everything from a pin to a telescope lense that can penetrate the depths of infinite space; and equipped us with deft instruments with which we weigh, measure, gauge, dissect, and analyze everything from a human impulse to the largest star that swirls through space at inconceivable rates of speed. HOW DO WE KNOW? The inerrancy of the scientific method, and its astounding accomplishments in recent years, have had a marked tendency to cause us to look with disdain upon other methods of ascertaining truth. The measuring devices of science, in the field of mechanics and technology, have become so accurate that we are commencing to insist upon gauging all truth with the yardstick of the scientific technician. If we follow this tendency too far we are apt to close our eyes to vast areas of truth; and fail to learn some of the vital principles that exalt and ennoble life. Sir Oliver Lodge, the great English physicist, is one of a number of eminent scientists who recognize the danger in this tendency to measure all truth with the yardstick of physical science. In his most interesting book, Reason and Belief, he gives an apt illustration of the errors that result from a purely critical appraisal of all human knowledge. He quotes the beautiful description of dawn which Shakespeare puts into the mouth of Romeo: "Night's candles are burned out and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops." Dr. Lodge observes that this is a rare bit of poetic truth. And then he very pointedly says that as a "scientific statement it is nonsense." And so it is. Night has no candles that can burn out. The moon and stars that give light by night are inextinguishable. Moreover, "jocund day" has no feet or toes. Consequently it cannot stand tiptoe on the misty mountain tops. And yet, notwithstanding the fact that this scrap of poetic fancy from the immortal bard is "scientific 559 nonsense," it is, nevertheless, profoundly true as a piece of art. By his unparalleled genius Shakespeare has made the mere abstraction "day" fairly live, move, and breathe. NO thinking person would recommend that we should lay aside the test tube, the crucible, or the tools of the technologist. But sound wisdom would suggest that we do not forget that there are vital truths, whose significance and importance cannot be discovered in the scientific laboratory. The philosophical way of arriving at truth is older than the scientific method. The philosopher's process of determining what is truth may not be as accurate as the scientific method, but it is the only method that is workable in some realms of truth-seeking. We can learn some truth as the scientist does, by technical experimentation; and we can also learn some truth as the philosopher does, by profound meditation in the light of the sum total of truth. Some six hundred years before Jesus wrought and taught in Galilee, Confucius, a Chinese philosopher, attempted to crystalize into one sentence all the rules governing human relationships. His consolidated code of morals is embodied in his well-known version of the Golden Rule. "Whatsoever ye would not that others do to you, do not to them." Suppose we were confronted with the problem of determining whether or not this noble concept is truth; what measuring devices would we use? If we answer this question correctly we shall be compelled to conclude that there are fields of truth seeking in which the yardstick of science cannot aid us. We 560 cannot determine the soundness of the conclusion of the Chinese philosopher by measuring, weighing, dissecting, or analyzing it. We are compelled to resort to synthesis. We are forced to consider it in its relationship to the sum total of moral truth in all of its manifold relationships. Or, in other words, we are compelled to philosophize—fit truth into truth and make a unified system. But there are many things we learn in ways that are even simpler than either the method of the strict philosopher or the technical scientist. And these more direct means of learning often yield absolute certainty. "I am as certain of what I am saying as I am that two and two make four," says the man on the street. All of us have heard this explanation of the certainty of knowledge. Few of us have ever thought of calling it into question. And yet, asa matter of fact, there are many things about which we are more sure than the sum of two plus two. Two is only a mental concept. So is four. Mere concepts, disassociated with actual experience, do not necessarily constitute absolute knowledge. But you touch a hot stove. Your hand is blistered. You conclude that heat gives pain and destroys your skin. Here you have an actual experience plus a concept. In fact, you have an experienced concept. An experience, if real, correctly interpreted is absolute knowledge. Take another illustration. You walk into the garden in the early morning. The sunlight is turning the dewdrops in the hearts of the roses to pearls. You have a sensation of refined delight. You feel an actual exaltation of mind. You cenclude that the beautiful RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is that which gladdens and ennobles the mind. Here again you have an experience, and you translate that experience into a concept. This experienced concept is perfect knowledge.. But we dq not arrive at our knowledge of the meaning of the beautiful by the technical scientific method. In science we discover data, collate it, analyze it, and make deductions. But our sensation of the beautiful is immediate. We feel it rather than arrive at it by logical processes. It was this elementary idea that led John Burroughs to say, "We do not know a work of art in the same way that we know a work of science or a product of analytical reasoning; we know it as we know those we are in sympathy with; it does not define itself to our intellect; it melts into our souls." A great many of the things we know and prize most highly, we know as we know "those we are in sympathy with." A frequented garden nook, an oft-seen landscape, a familiar poem, a cherished story are all things we know sympathetically. Although we rigorously insist on utilizing the accurate measuring devices of science in the field of mechanics and technology, yet if we are wise we shall not look with disdain upon the knowledge the artist acquires by his sensitive sympathetic touch with the beautiful. IF we would not want to reject appreciation of the beautiful as a means of knowledge, what shall we say of the mystic's claimed contact with the unseen world? The mention of the mystic is apt to provoke a smile and the elevation of the eyebrows of those who insist rigorously upon seeing, HOW DO WE KNOW? handling, weighing and measuring all truth with strictly scientific instruments. But even in the ranks of those who spend almost all their time with the measuring devices of physical science are found men whose penetrating insight compels them to respect the mystic's source of knowledge. Dr. Arthur Stanley Eddington, the internationally known astronomer, quotes Dr. J. S. Hoyland as saying: "There is an hour in the Indian night, a little before the first glimmer of dawn, when the stars are unbelievably clear and close above, shining with a radiance beyond our belief in this foggy land. The trees stand silent, alive, listening, eager. At such a moment the veil between the things that are seen and the things that are unseen becomes so thin as to interpose scarcely any barrier at all between the eternal beauty and truth and the soul which would comprehend them." Commenting upon this experience of Dr. Hoyland, Dr. Eddington remarks: "Here is an experience which the observer as technically defined in scientific theory knows nothing of. The measuring appliances which he reads declare that the stars are just as remote as they always have been, nor can he find any excuse in his measures for the mystic thought which has taken possession of the mind and dominated the sense-impressions. Yet who does not prize these moments that reveal to us the poetry of existence?" Then he adds: "We cannot argue that because natural mysticism is universally admitted in some degree therefore religious mysticism must be admitted; but objections to religious 561 mysticism lose their force if they can equally be turned against natural mysticism." The mystic's claimed contact with the unseen is close to what prohets call inspiration. The greatest soul that ever trod this globe and all His purest followers have believed that there is a spirit of light and truth that radiates out from God, like the waves from the radio transmission instrument; and that when human souls are pure this spirit registers definite intelligible impressions upon their spirits, very much like the light that strikes the delicate photographic plate. All these great souls have believed with Tennyson that "Spirit with spirit can meet." A modern classical example of "spirit with spirit" contact with the unseen is furnished by the story of the manner in which Lorenzo Snow attained certain knowledge of the divinity of the religion to which he gave the full measure of his life's devotion. After his baptism he was profoundly stirred with a desire to learn from a divine source whether his newly espoused religion was true. In a simple autobiographical sketch, he tells us that he sought in earnest prayer for a divine testimony of the truth; and that while he prayed the Spirit of God completely enveloped him and filled him from head to foot with light, life, and unspeakable joy and glory. All darkness left him; and he felt the presence of "refulgent light and knowledge." Why should we doubt this inspiring testimony? Hundreds of thousands of devout members of the church most solemnly testify that the Spirit of Truth has given them more than human certainty of God's power and goodness. The 562 imperishable testimonies of this host of witnesses is the enduring strength and spiritual glory of the church of God. The profound spiritual awakening that came to Lorenzo Snow is the deepest and most vital experience that comes to a human soul in this world. He was "quickened in the inner man." He was "awakened" to the reality of God and His power and goodness. He received the abundant life—the inexhaustible life of God. The Prophet Moroni tells us that we can "know the truth of all things" by the "Power of the Holy Ghost." This homely text holds a profound meaning. The words literally mean that we may be made alive to all truth by the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE intensifying and quickening power of the Holy Ghost. In other words, the Holy Spirit purifies and intensifies our consciousness or feelings, and multiplies our power to know the truth. One who has been awakened by the quickening power of the Spirit has been born of the Spirit. He has become spiritual, He has attained the highest aspect of culture—joyous, exalting, and glorifying spirituality. All the finest souls of all time have earnestly sought this spiritual quickening through which man comes into actual contact with God—the ultimate reality— and feels the infinite joy of fellowship with Him, through which comes "the peace that passeth all understanding." PIONEER WOMAN By Myrtle Wentworth She walks by the side of the lumbering train Over the rough, unfriendly plain, While the wagon wheels, less patient than she, Creak and grumble complainingly. She learns from the scars along the way How the hostile plain exacts its pay; Scattered remnants of bleaching bones, Or a lonely grave with its marker of stones. At night by the campfire's dying glow She watches the pale moon hanging low And a far-away smile illumines her face As if her soul dwelt apart from this barren place. Does she dream of that home left far behind, Where the evening breezes were gentle and kind, Where gayly frocked hollyhocks fringed the lawn, And sweet-throated birds called forth the dawn? No, she visions a place in the distant West Where her weary feet will at length find rest; Where she can kneel on a virgin sod And hold blessed communion in peace with God. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon SEPTEMBER — The Lord's command, "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread" is a blessing, not a punishment. Mrs. ALICE SALOMON, sociologist and foremost woman of Germany, has been expelled from her native land because of Jewish ancestry though she is a devout Christian. Dr. Salomon, prominently associated with the International Council of Women, was greatly admired by the American women. RS. LOUISE Y. ROBISON, general president of the Relief Society, made an extended and official visit to the Hawaiian Islands this summer. Dr. ARABELLA REYNOLDS died, recently, at the ripe age of 97. She was one of the very few women of the Civil War with a commission. She received the rank of Major, for her heroism at the battle of Shilo. MARIA ELETTRA ELENA, age 7, daughter of Marconi, inventor of wireless telegraphy, is heiress to her father's fortune estimated at $25,000,000. NATALIE PIXTON, 18, has been appointed personnel officer of the Army Amateur Radio System for Utah. She is the youngest operator in the Ninth Corps Area. MARGARET M. HANNA has recently been appointed U. S. Consul at Geneva. The State Department is gradually recognizing the service of women. ALICE E. ROWE, honored and beloved school teacher in Utah, for 46 years, died last July. DR. MARY E. WOOLLEY has retired from the presidency of Mt. Holyoke College after a period of 37 years. She has plans for broader activity in other fields and says, "Why shouldn't one start life at 74 as well as 40?" ELEANOR PATTERSON, long-time editor of the ""Washington Herald," a Hearst paper, has now leased both the "Herald" and the "Times" and proposes to run them independently. She is certainly a courageous woman. MARY JONES CLAWSON, who died last July, was a woman of many graces. She was patriotic, literary and socially inclined—a true and talented daughter of the pioneers. Mrs. EARLINE WHITE, national president of the Business and Professional Woman's League, is sponsoring, through her organization, legislation for strict equality for women, especially in regard to hours-and-wage laws for women workers.: FRANCIS PARKINSON KEYES, newspaper correspondent and author in her new book "Washington Kaleidoscope" is very frank in her description of Washington people, officially and socially. Nevertheless the book has a fascinating expectancy and keeps one wondering who will be the next target for her brilliant shots. Creator of Opportunities BLANCHE KENDALL McKEy By LaRene King Bleecker Few of us have it. Those who do, achieve really remarkable success. They become the doers instead of the dreamers. Utah's well-known writer, Blanche Kendall McKey, has this rare gift of selectivity. She is able to appraise the worth while things of life. With the weapons of indomitable courage and a keen sense of humor, she has parried adversity and made of life a joyous adventure. In her scheme of living there are no dull moments, no sighing for things that might have been; no squandered time. MRS. McKEY'S life story is like an appealing book, its chapters teeming with human interest. In reviewing it, one wonders how so much vivid drama could be packed into one life. She has tasted the elixir of success before the footlights; heard the plaudits of admiring fans; associated with the great ones of the stage; she has known the ecstasy of a great love and the bitter grief of tragedy. Poet, play-wright, actress, wife, mother, teacher—she has yet found time to teach, encourage and advise young people, to be a good friend and neighbor, to produce and direct plays and pageants, to travel, to take part in church activities, and to study constantly at home and beyond her state. HER output of poems, plays and articles is prolific, in view of the fact that she writes only in her spare time. Approximately nine hours of every week-day is taken up with teaching English in the Ogden High School. Yet during the past year alone, her poems and articles have appeared in three national anthologies, in several magazines in the South and West, in The Improvement Era, and in The Relief Society Magazine. She won the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest for 1935 with her beautiful sonnet, "Autumn," and a cash prize in New York from the Avon House Publishers for two short lyrics, "Summer Heart" and "Symbols." She also won last summer with "Pioneer Candles," the pageant writing contest sponsored by the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers of Weber County. HE loves working with young people. A natural educator, she has faith in the integrity of our boys and girls. In training them, Mrs. McKey tries, first of all, to build character and to inspire them to become stronger and better. With remarkable insight, she senses that, "no pattern has ever been found to fit the individual need of youth. In some respects we are still in the 'trial and error' state as educators. With all our equipment, beautiful buildings, high scholarships, theories, concepts and ideals, we recognize a need for inspiration in the heart of adolescence, which we often fail to reach," Mrs. McKEY believes that the home is the greatest factor for building character. In her own home she has striven to make life so happy that her children would not regret the loss of the advantages she could not give them. CREATOR OF OPPORTUNITIES 565 BLANCHE KENDALL McKEY "I had to get my education while rearing my family," she explained, "and life was too strenuous—too much of a struggle to form any set rules. I held to the belief that God had intrusted me with a grave responsibility, and I had to keep faith." In addition to her two talented children, Richard and Eily, Mrs. McKey has one little grandson, Kay Kendall Pearson, who is "The singing joy" of her life. One day while the two were playing together, five-year-old Kay stopped suddenly in the midst of the game, gazed quizzically at his grownup playmate for a moment, and then said, "Gaum, you're quite the fellow!" With his childish discernment he had given voice to that certain naive quality which so endears Mrs. McKey to her students. Though she requires the very best they can give, yet, instinctively, they know that she is indeed, "quite the fellow." 566 BL ANCHE KENDALL McKEY, the sister of Kate Thomas, Senator Elbert D, Thomas, and R. Kendall Thomas was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, the daughter of Richard Kendall Thomas and Carrie Stockdale. Her father was a wellknown pioneer merchant. He helped choose the site of the University of Utah, and, with three other leading church members, chose the first furnishings of the Salt Lake Temple. Carrie S. Thomas was a member of the General Board of the Relief Society for many years. Coming to Utah at a very early age as converts from England, Blanche's parents were builders in whatever community or society they entered. Both were ardent lovers of the drama. S a child, Blanche showed decided tendencies toward the stage, as did other members of her family. Wishing to develop and encourage this talent, Mr. Thomas turned one of his barns into a little theatre, converting the hayloft into a balcony. The stage had three sets of scenery and real footlights. Many of the plays presented in the "little theatre'" were written by Blanche, the leading roles of which she, herself, assumed. Naturally possessed of a wealth of emotion, the child's talent blossomed in her high school days when, under the direction of Professor Maud May Babcock, she appeared with pronounced success in several school dramas. A year or two later this achievement was repeated in the East on the professional stage, where she found favor with New York managers. She appeared in dramatic "bits" with Sir Henry Irving and Richard Mansfield, and portrayed the roles of Annie in the "Bonnie Briar Bush," with L. H. Stoddart, Tirzah in "Ben Hur," and Hope Bower in "Eben Holden." She crossed the continent RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with Charles B. Hanford in Shakespearian repertoire. It was during this engagement that she appeared in the Salt Lake Theatre as Jessica in "The Merchant of Venice," to a more than capacity house, for hundreds of her school friends turned out to greet her. The Deseret News of that time carried a picture of Blanche Kendall under the caption, "She was a sweet and gentle Jessica." Today, if one were to describe her as she is—so youthful for her years, so gentle and charming—a more fitting caption could not be given—than that of a "sweet and gentle Jessica." It was during her engagement with, "Eben Holden" that the gifted Utah girl met her future husband, William Richard McKey, who was appearing in the title role. Mr. McKey was a southerner, a man of established reputation as a character actor. They were married at the Mission House in New York City by President John McQuarrie; and two weeks later, Mr. McKey was baptized into the Mormon Church. From the first day of their meeting, "Dick" McKey's experience and knowledge of the world shielded Blanche from influences that might have destroyed her delicacy. Upon her departure for Salt Lake City before the birth of her second child, he said to her: "Different women have different kinds of charm. Your's lies in your viewpoint. Never let anything come into your life that might change it." Although motherhood changed Blanche's life completely, and after a year or two, she was faced with the colossal task of providing for herself and two children, she strained to hold on to her outlook on life, which was one of freshness, of good fellowship, of belief in the nearness of Divinity. Mr. McKey died suddenly in New York City of a heart attack. CREATOR OF OPPORTUNITIES IN a small way, there were opportunities in the West for Blanche McKey to continue her stage career, and she made a few attempts. But the thought of her children was always tugging at her heart strings, and she decided to give her life to teaching, that she might have her little ones near. Her career as an instructor includes one year at Oneida Academy, five years at Weber College, three at Ricks College in Idaho, and nine at the Ogden High School. As a teacher of Speech she produced many artistic plays and pageants, some of which made a great deal of money for one public fund or another. A number of these offerings were of her own composition. "THREE times Mrs. McKey won Drama League State contests with original plays. In 1926 she won the M. I. A. Jubilee Prize contest with "The Unequal Yoke," and in 1930 her play, "The Redemption of Johnnie Average" was awarded first place in the National Educational 567 Thrift Service contest for high school plays. She is now under contract with the Wetmore Declamation Bureau, having recently sold them a long narrative poem, "The Ballad of Herbie Shaughnessy's Wings." Mrs. McKey is a member of the American Association of University women, having been graduated from the University of Utah with a Master's degree in 1928. She is a member of the Chi Delta Phi, national literary sorority, and belongs to the National League of American Pen Women. It is as a poet, perhaps, that Mrs. McKey's admirers know her best. She has a natural ear for rhythm and form. Her lyrics have a wistful quality, an emotional appeal which reveals great depth of feeling. In view of the excellent poetry she writes, it is somewhat surprising that she, herself, prefers drama. But it is in drama that she sees a greater vehicle of expression. Her dream is that she may one day retire and devote her entire working time to writing.
THE FOOL HAS SAID THERE IS NO GOD By Miriam C. Bitner
As I sit in my chair near the window Watching the snow flakes fall, I think of our Heavenly Father Who ruleth over all.
I see His wondrous handiwork In this beautiful world of ours, In the breeze that sways the tree tops, In the snow and the springtime showers.
In the fruit of the field and orchard, In the beautiful birds that sing, In the tempest that rages in winter, And the flowers that bloom in the spring,
In the buzzing bee in the clover Where it gathers honey sweet, The beautiful golden sunshine That makes the earth complete.
Why man should doubt his Creator I cannot understand, For everything in the universe Bears the print of His loving hand.
From the stars that shine in the heaven To the tiniest root, neath the sod All nature proves that man a fool Who hath said, "there is no God."
Sold for Taxes By Pearl W. Peterson
JIM loved his home far more than do most boys. He tried moving from one place to another. Just when he began to feel at home in one locality, we would move on. He made new friends only to lose them again, until we built this home. It was most carefully planned, inside and out. The house was built and furnished to give cheer, comfort and inspiration; the grounds planted and cared for to create beauty and joy. Jim stood upon the lawn as mother and Mrs. Yorke walked out to find the brave little snowdrops amid the glistening green and gold of the winter aconites. He smiled at the amazement portrayed upon the visitor's face as mother walked slowly to the flower bed, stooped down and picked a silver blossom to give to her guest. Perhaps mother's acquaintances thought of her as he had when he read that never to be forgotten letter from daddy:
"Dearest children: "In spite of all the doctors could do, your mother is now blind. Her sorrow is so deep, although she hides it well, that we must never let her hear one word of bitterness or regret. She is very anxious to get back home where she knows every nook and cranny. You must have everything in its accustomed place so that she can go safely about and may sometimes forget her sad affliction. "Your loving father, "James Davidsen."
After reading it, Jim closed his eyes. He wondered how anyone could live in such blankness. He had seen an old blind beggar; so, in his own mind, he saw his busy cheerful mother changed into a gloomy sadfaced creature, feeling her way about or being led wherever she went. So he had sorrowed. Later he marveled at her accomplishments. He never knew how she fought to overcome her fear of the blackness which was her lot. He had one little glimpse of it on the day she returned home. He saw her kneel down by the couch and heard her whisper this prayer, "Father, if it be Thy will that I must walk in darkness throughout this life, I do thank Thee for this home, which is so familiar and dear to me."
THE desire for safety ranged against her greater desire to be busy and helpful. An heroic battle she waged, thankful every day for the intelligent thought and care which had gone into the making of our home. Soon she became a competent homemaker again, patient, happy and kind. But when she ventured alone beyond our gateway, she met with a series of accidents which reached their culmination when she stepped into a little hollow, falling and breaking her arm in two places. She was thankful that the hurt was no worse, yet the fright was never forgotten. From that time on she made no more efforts to visit her friends except on rare occasions when illness or trouble came to them. As Mrs. Yorke walked out to the gate, she said, "You have a lovely home, Mrs. Davidsen." Mother added, "And, because I know it so well, it is priceless to me."
JIM jumped over the fence into the vacant lot which belonged to us. In normal times daddy's carpentry work took so much of his time that one lot was all we could SOLD FOR TAXES care for. Jim and his friends used the other one for a playground. On the north side was a high board fence—along this the snow was all gone. Here they played marbles. Sometimes Jim played alone. Lyman Scott lived on the next lot. Jim could hear him talking to someone. He took no notice of the conversation until he heard daddy's name mentioned. These words came clearly to his ears, "I feel sorry for James Davidsen. His home will soon be sold for taxes." Jim was dumbfounded for a moment. Could that be true? Our home! He thought of mother as she appeared in strange places, totally blind, lost and miserable. How could she live without her home? He saw his father outside the house. He ran toward him, calling, "Daddy!"
"What is it, Jim?" "Will they sell our home for taxes?"
His father's face paled as he looked fearfully at the door. "Don't talk so loud. We mustn't let mother hear anything like that. The doctor says she is in a very delicate condition and cannot bear another sorrow." Jim had never seen his father look so sad. He had always appeared jovial. He went on in a subdued tone, "Unless we pay these four years taxes by the last of November, our home will be sold. But God is good. I know if we work with all our might and try to keep His commandments. He will save it for mother." Jim added, "She says that our Heavenly Father will grant us what we pray for, if we have faith."
"Yes—but faith and work are inseparable." "I wish I could get a job."
His father smiled at that, then answered seriously, "Cash jobs are scarce, these days. We had better create our own employment." Jim was puzzled. "How can we do that?"
"I have thought of only one thing and it will take some backbreaking work. Will you give up your playground to save our home?"
"I'll do anything."
"All right. We will plant vegetables in our vacant lot. We should be able to sell them at a fair profit."
"Oh! That will be fun."
"It will be work. Lyman Scott will let us use his team and implements, if I will do carpentry work for him. Our grocer will take vegetables later on in payment for seeds."
When mother called them in to supper she asked, "Will you get me some dark loam from the vacant lot, Jim?" Jokingly daddy advised, "You'd better not carry away too much of that ground. Jim and I are thinking of planting a garden there." Mother spoke impulsively, "Oh! I do wish you would. You'd be right at home and I'm sure we could sell flowers and vegetables, too. Why! I can already see a beautiful garden there." Jim looked at her puzzled again. She asked, "Will you let me help plan it?"
That sounded like extra work to Jim. "We don't have to plan a garden, mama."
"That depends upon your aim, son. If you merely want a lot of work, don't bother. But greatest success always comes from well planned labor. Even God made definite plans before He created this earth. I don't believe He is pleased with haphazard work." Daddy seconded all she said and 570 added, "He will give us a more abundant yield, if we do His way." Jim was silenced but he wondered how a blind person could plan a garden. The mystery increased when mother stated just where each variety should be planted and why that was the best place for it. I sketched the plan very carefully upon paper. Later daddy said to us, "Mother lives nearer to our Heavenly Father than we do. So, I think if we take her advice, we will be more sure of His help and without it we will never save our home."
SOON our vacant lot was fertilized, plowed, harrowed and leveled. Daddy worked longer each day than he had ever done before. He seemed ill at ease unless he was busy. Mother began to worry. He laughed at her fears and did all he could to reassure her. "I have been out of work for so long I'm getting heavy. I need to work my surplus weight off. I enjoy being out in this spring weather."
Father and Jim planted the early flowers and vegetables. By the time school was out, the garden needed all of Jim's time. Six days a week they worked. Daddy never refused a cash job so Jim was sometimes left alone—but every day, no matter where he was to work, daddy was up at daybreak and out in the garden, planting, weeding or thinning.
JIM enjoyed carrying the earliest vegetables to market each morning. They sold quite well as their's was the first locally raised produce. After every chance of sale had been tried, they gave the balance to those in need. The ground so cleared was fertilized again and replanted. Lyman Scott tried to tease them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "You act as though both time and space were invaluable. You work from daylight until dark and you've even covered the fences." Jim was quite proud of the many vines creeping over the old boards on one side and the sweet peas covering the wire netting on the other. However, the work was tiresome. Usually, Jim dropped off to sleep right after supper but always he remembered to ask God to save their home for his mother's sake.
WHEN the early summer vegetables were ready, sales were not so easily made. Jim was almost ready to give up when Aunt Julia became ill. Mother insisted on going over to be near her. Jim called for her that evening. There was a smile on mother's face but it was not the happy one she wore at home. She was pale and a big blue bruise showed plainly upon her forehead. Jim asked, "What's the matter with your head?" Aunt Julia answered, "I forgot to tell her that I had placed the dresser where my cedar chest used to be. She bumped her head when she tried to find some linen for me."
"It's nothing to worry about," mother assured her. Outside Jim questioned her again. "How did you get that scar on your arm?"
"From Julia's electric toaster. I tried to be useful." The sob in her voice scared Jim. When they reached home. Mother said, "You can't realize how much I love our home." Jim made a silent vow to go on working no matter how discouraged he felt. Mother should not lose her home through his negligence. He asked God to make the garden a success. And He surely did bless that special bit of earth. The yield was SOLD FOR TAXES prodigious, the growth most luxurious.
JIM enjoyed digging, picking and bunching vegetables for market. But when, night after night, he came back from canvassing the town to report that almost every family had a garden of their own and needed no more, it seemed impossible to keep up courage. They canned a great supply and gave bushels away.
MORE flowers were beginning to blossom. Great masses of color in the most effective settings made a beautiful picture. Passers-by stopped to admire and many words of praise came to Jim's ears. Yet he wouldn't be comforted. "What's the good of a wonderful garden if there's no sale for the produce?" He wondered if prayers were of any avail. Father tried to cheer him. He explained that the reward comes only to those who work on in spite of obstacles or discouragement—to those whose faith is too strong to be destroyed by trials. That evening brought a gentle summer shower. In the morning, as the sun spread its beams everywhere, our garden was a scene of wondrous beauty. The leaves and vines were a brighter green, the many-hued flowers were more radiantly colored, the white blossoms were restored to virgin purity and over all were myriads of sparkling drops. Mother's planning had been very nearly perfect. When we tried to describe the loveliness to her, she cried with joy, "Now I know that you have worked faithfully."
JIM began to take more pride in creating beauty, forgetting his aim of mere material profit. He was especially glad when Senator Holbrook, Glendale's most famous son, 571 stopped to admire the arrangement and prolific growth. Mrs. Holbrook was even more enthusiastic in her praise. She bought several sprays of rain washed flowers. The statesman and his wife were visiting relatives and friends. Several times they stopped to talk and to buy. The last time they drove up in their big green car, the Senator praised Jim. "If you keep on doing such perfect work, young man, you will make a splendid mark in the world." Mrs. Holbrook's words brought more happiness to Jim. She said, "I have never enjoyed a visit to my old home town as much as I have this one, just because of your delightful garden." Jim cut a large bunch of the prettiest flowers for her. She insisted on paying him well. He was elated. The work was easier, now—more varied and interesting. The autumn fruits and vegetables sold quite readily, although the price was low. The flowers, true to mother's prediction, brought excellent profits and greater joy.
THEIR harvest ended the last of October. Jim stood patiently by while daddy balanced their accounts. The garden's beauty had vanished, so his thoughts now were on his original aim. "Is there enough for the taxes?" Eagerly he asked the question. Father hesitated, "No. It isn't enough." He saw the keen disappointment mirrored upon Jim's countenance. Although he was rather perplexed himself, he tried to reassure his son. "You really did wonderful work this summer, Jim. God will reward you in the best way. He knows better than we do what is good for us. Don't worry. There's a month left. I'll get a little cash as judge of election Tuesday." 572 Jim couldn't overcome the blues so easily, but, since actual earning was denied him, he tried to make up for it by praying. The election brought him no cheer as Senator Holbrook, who had been so kind to him, was defeated. Then as though they had not troubles enough, a strange, bold woman from Fairland came to their home and introduced herself. She said to his mother, "We're going to buy a home here in Glendale. So, when I heard this place was to be sold for taxes, I came to look it over." Jim clenched his hands in fury as a deep pallor overspread mother's face—but her sweet voice calmed him. "I hope it isn't for sale. I'm sure you can find another home you will like." After the woman left, mother sat in silence for a moment. Jim tried to speak consolingly but his words merely confirmed her fears. "They won't sell our home. We've got some tax money and we've worked and prayed all summer." His mother said, "Don't tell daddy about the woman coming here. He would be sorry." She went into her bedroom and closed the door. Soon he heard stifled sobs. He heard her prayer. "Heavenly Father, please do not let this home be taken from us. Nevertheless, Thy will be done, only grant me strength to go on no matter what must be." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Jim became frightened, "Daddy said if she found out about it she would get sick again." Father came around to the front of the house to rake up leaves. He called to Jim, who went out to help. "Why are you so sober?" Daddy asked. Jim didn't have time to answer before a big green car drove up and stopped. Senator Holbrook and his wife stepped out and came to the fence.
After greetings were exchanged, the senator said, "Ever since the election was over, Mrs. Holbrook has kept up a continual pleading for your garden lot on which to build us a home. I hope it is for sale." As in a dream, Jim heard father say, "We might sell it." Mrs. Holbrook spoke up, "Please do. We want to spend the remainder of our lives here with our old friends. You've proved that this is the very best lot in town. We'll give you a thousand dollars for it." A great weight seemed lifted from Jim's heart. He couldn't stand still. He heard his father say, "Yes, I will sell for that price." Into the house and on into mother's bedroom, Jim rushed. "Mama, they can't sell your house, now. We've got a thousand dollars. Senator Holbrook is buying the vacant lot. We'll get our taxes paid," he shouted. Mother stood quietly. Jim spoke more calmly and as reverently as such an excited boy could, "Mama, don't you think God has answered our prayers in the very best way?"
Little Moments of Eternity
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? BOOKS Take TIME To READ
"Oh what is so fine as a cozy nook, With a cushioned chair and a friendly book? —Wordsworth.
NO greater inheritance has come to humanity through the ages, than the gift of books. Very early in the life of the race man sought some means of recording his knowledge and experience. Depending on the spoken word, he could reach only those persons with whom he came in direct contact; but when he could record his thoughts on tablet or scroll or metal plate, the inscription could be passed on to others. Best of all, it could be preserved, not only for his children, but for descendants of future generations. Knowledge, experience, the revealed Word of God could be made permanent. The first records were wrought with much effort, with long hours of painstaking care. There were few of them and they were very precious. Even in Luther's day, he "longed for the time when a Bible would be chained in every church." Man's vaguest dreams did not vision the production of such a wealth of books as are provided today. The invention of printing has revolutionized the world of thought. For those who were fortunate enough to be able to read, the ancient problem was to secure a book. Today, with free public schools and free public libraries,
By Lella Marler Hoggan
the problem is how to choose wisely the books to be read from among the vast number that continually flood the market.
GIFTED minds, through the power of the printed page, may transport us to the ends of the earth. With them we may sail the seven seas to every tropic and clime, from the frozen fastnesses of the north land to the dark forests of the torrid zone. We may learn the lore of the jungle from Kipling's Mowgli, the little brown boy who brothered with the wolf pack. Beebe will take us into the depths of the sea and show us the wonders of life that inhabit the ocean floor. We may stand with Edwin Markham on the top of the world and catch his inspiration of divine beauty. We may weep with Lincoln over the death of beautiful Ann Rutledge. We may laugh with Huckleberry Finn as he paddles up the Mississippi River in time to attend his own funeral. We may suffer, we may pray, we may rejoice, with the wise and the good whose living presence greets us from the pages of great books. The soul of man is mirrored in his written word. If his vision is beautiful and true, his message one of courage and high hope, it reveals itself in his writing. There are as many types of books as there are types of authors. The printed page is sometimes used 574 to promote selfish purposes, to commercialize fraud, to deceive, to pollute the soul of man, as well as to portray truth and beauty. There are writers who glorify the common experiences of every day, who vision the ideal in the real, who lift us to the stars. Then there are the iconoclasts, the idol breakers, who delight in disclosing every flaw in human nature, who wish to materialize the ideal, and substitute sophistry for sentiment. With the increasing number of free hours of time from year to year, and with books of every sort to be had for the asking, it is little wonder that the question is continually repeated. "What shall we read?" It is an individual problem. Each must choose according to his need. Before deciding what to read, one should ask why he reads. Good literature supplies an outlet for the emotions, satisfies the soul's longing, increases one's joy in life, gives a more sympathetic understanding of humanity, a greater appreciation of eternal values, and enriches and enlarges life. "There is no greater magic in the world than the printed book," says Gove Hambidge.... Few of us realize how much the course and pattern of our lives are shaped by books."* How necessary it is that one should use judgment and discrimination in choosing his reading material. But even scholars realize that it is difficult to set up standards by which literary values may be determined. Henry Van Dyke in "Counsel *"Time To Live," by Gove Hambidge, Pub. McGraw Hill Book Co., New York. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Upon the Reading of Books," said: "Any author who has kept the affection, interest and confidence of thoughtful, honest readers through at least one generation is fairly sure to have something in him that is worth reading." Mr. Van Dyke classified readers into three groups, the simple, the intelligent, and the gentle reader. "The gentle reader," says he, "is the person who wants to grow, and who turns to books as a means of purifying his tastes, deepening his feelings, broadening his sympathies, and enhancing his joy in life."... The culture of a finer, fuller manhood is what this reader seeks. He is looking for the books in which the inner meanings of nature and life are translated into language of distinction and charm, touched with the human personality of the author, and embodied in forms of permanent interest and power. This is literature."† When there are so many rare, lovely books to be had, why should time be wasted on volumes that are a discredit to the author who pens them? The wisdom of the world has been salvaged through the ages by the magic of the printed page. The best minds of all time have clothed in choice language their greatest thoughts. Like silent friends they stand ready to instruct, to entertain, to uplift us with their ripe scholarship and divine inspiration. Are we going to accept the opportunity of forming friendships with these illustrious men and women, or are we going to loiter our time away with writers who †"Counsel Upon The Reading Of Books," Preface by Henry Van Dyke, Pub. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, Mass LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY 575 576 do not interpret life's meanings truly and who view the world from a murky bog rather than the sunlit mountain crest? H. A. Overstreet, in his "Guide To Civilized Loafing,"‡ said, "Mental companionships, some of the finest in the world, may be had for the asking. I have but to lift my hand to a bookshelf and I have converse fit for the gods."‡ Let us cultivate a literary taste and cherish an affection for fine books. Let us be serious, earnest and sincere in choosing what we shall read. We want books that give us wholesome pleasure, books with a high purpose, that recognize moral and spiritual values, that help us to get more joy and beauty and permanent satisfaction out of life. We want high adventure, clean and uplifting; mystery, suspense; we want art, books that we can read aloud to our children; books that will leave us stronger and braver, more self-reliant and better prepared to meet life—and death. We want poetry, soft singing verse that we read for the sheer joy of its rhythmic beauty. The poets are the prophets of the race. They supply the ideals, the vision, that will lift mankind to the heights. Before taking time to read questionable volumes simply because they are popular and are widely advertised, we should remind ourselves that popular opinion makes mistakes. Popular opinion crucified the Savior, martyred the prophets, and has held up for criticism and ridicule the great and the good through the years. The person who has a cultivated taste for good literature is practically immune to the influence of ‡"A Guide To Civilized Loafing," By H. A. Overstreet, Pub. W. W. Norton & Co., New York. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a bad book, but he seldom wastes his time on this type of reading. He chooses rather, books that have moral significance, that broaden his horizon and enrich his life.
READING is not a habit we can assume when we are old. It grows with the years. The person who reads the right kind of books over a long period of time adds growth and development and joy to his soul. Persons who plan their reading and check their lists as they go, will have no unhappy surprises at the end of the year. A well balanced list includes philosophy, fiction, poetry, biography, history and religion. Let quality rather than quantity be your guide. Do you seek inspiration in your choice of books? Do you deliberately aim to read something uplifting every day? Are you proud to display to your friends your reading list for the year? Some persons plan to be always reading a book and always buying a book. As soon as one is completed they begin another. It may take them weeks, reading at odd moments and during empty half hours now and then, but it is a delightful and profitable diversion. A small container labeled, "Pennies For Books," will soon accumulate the price of some long desired volume. As soon as one is paid for begin again. There is joy and satisfaction in owning a few choice books. Don't you love to handle a well made book? Don't you love the feeling of the soft leather under your fingers? There are some books that one touches with reverence, and some that are as dear as old friends. There are books that may be read again and again. LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY "Every year when the lilacs bloom," confessed a gentle old man, "I read Lucile again. It grows in tenderness and beauty with the years."
THE soul of man aspires to the beautiful, the sublime, that which is in harmony with the divine. All this we shall find and more, if we only take time to read. There is a book for every mood. Those who form the reading habit and cultivate a taste for literary 577 values, have possessed themselves of the key that will unlock the treasure chest of the ages. "Books! Thanks be to God for the gift of them, The pull and the urge and the lift of them; For the keen delight of the printed page, Priceless alike to the child or the sage; Thanks be to God for books," —Wordsworth. The quotations are used by special permission of the respective publishers.
Needle Point By Nettie K. Miller
OUR day is marked by a widespread revival of interest in one of the most delicate of all embroidery—needle point. There is an old-world atmosphere about needle point that is largely responsible for its continued appeal. It conjures up visions of stately Chateaux and candle-lit drawing rooms, of elegant ladies of the court with curled and powdered wigs and tapering jeweled fingers. History, fancies, and romance are worked in its very stitches, and shades of ancient needle women cling lovingly to the old bits of silk and wool. Exquisite pieces of petit point and gros point, which upholstered the furniture of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, were ripped off by the dealers of greater diligence than taste. Replaced by less faded coverings, designed to catch the eye of the New Aristocracy, these pieces were flung in disregarded piles in corners. It may be said with perfect truth that America is responsible for this most interesting of rediscoveries. Immediately after the World War, American collectors and dealers appeared, purses in ready hands, to celebrate the wake of Continental poverty. The discarded bundles of needle point were shipped overseas, then paid the compliment of a more thoughtful observation than had been accorded by their native land.
NEEDLE point has now become the insistent demand of all who seek exquisite furnishings and have the wherewithal for their purchase. Needle point, which is the general term embracing both petit and gros point embroidery, is the most careful of handicrafts. The "art" of needle point is not so much in the detail of its execution, troublesome and important though that is, as in the selection, harmony and contrast of its colors. No medium, save oil, presents a greater opportunity for skillful and charming coloring. It is often called needlework pictures, because the patterns are taken from famous tapestries—as gay as the Vienna of romance. The surface of needle point embroidery is divided into small units 578 of color, so fine that extraordinary blending is possible. The results are harmonious and marvelously pleasing. The little diagonal stitch was called "tent stitch" in England, while in Rome, the Latin synonym for needle point was "cushion stitch."
THE contemporary amateur, who considers needle point as a hobby, should be forewarned of its difficulty. Unparalleled patience, deftness, and good taste are requisites. It is fascinating and difficult. The linen mesh upon which it is worked is woven into tiny open squares of coarse thread. There are three sizes of stitch. The large stitch, made with wool yarn, takes up four little strands of foundation canvas. This is called gros point. The medium size is on much finer foundation scrim, and is worked with finer yarn of D. M. C. Mercerized cotton. It is done with the naked eye, and is called "petit point done with the naked eye." Then there is "petit point made under a magnifying glass." It takes up only one strand of foundation canvas, which is very fine. It is usually made with silk or D. M. C., only one strand of thread being used. The real petit point is called "petit point made under glass," and contains approximately sixteen hundred stitches to the square inch. There are, therefore, countless thousands of individual operations necessary before even the least conspicuous frame is filled. Because it is an embroidery and not a frame-woven tapestry, it is especially adapted for use upon a surface such as a chair seat, or a cushion, where there is constant friction or "pulling." A loomed stitch will bunch and pull, but needle point, because of the nature of its construction, is practically impervious to wear.
THOSE eras in which it has especially flourished have been separated by wide gaps of time, but it seems to have recurred in each with increasing, rather than diminished, beauty. The literature which touches upon needle point is astonishingly small. This is the more strange, inasmuch as needle point seems to be the oldest and most artistically important of any of the myriad forms of needlework. It appears first historically in the later Roman Empire, although its origin, like most other things, seems to have been in some forgotten period of the Chinese Empire. The first age in which it attained any lasting importance was in China during the thirteenth century. Some of the most exquisite pieces date from that epoch. The petit point stitch was used almost exclusively, and only silk, as might be expected, was employed. During the middle of the sixteenth century, needle point next appeared as a definite revival. It first became the fashion in France, but rapidly passed across the channel into England. Curiously enough, in a collection of sixteenth century work at Devonshire, there is one old piece of petit point, worn and faded with time, in which the English rose, the Scotch thistle, and the lily of France are mournfully combined. A center oval in yellow silk bears two frogs on a well, a crown and the name "Mary." Poor Mary of Scots! Her lesson on needle point from her mother-in-law must have served her in good stead to while away the hours of captivity at Hardwicke. Another piece in the collection is signed E. S. 1590, and would indicate that the Queen's jailor practiced the stitch also. The innocent occupation later got the poor Queen in trouble. Several chair backs being finished, the Queen directed them sent to the Duchesse Clery. The municipals, from whom permission was sought, thought the designs represented hieroglyphics, designed to open a correspondence with the outside. Consequently, it was forbidden to allow any work done by the Queen to leave the tower.
NEEDLE women turned to the Bible for subjects, and, in many old pieces, we come onto the familiar figures of Adam and Eve, and Pharaoh's daughters finding Moses in the rushes. Little bags were worked in the stitch to hold the elaborately embroidered books of the period. Exquisite petit point handbags were a prized possession, designed with lyrical scenes worked out lovingly in many rich colors.
WHEN Mary and William of Orange came to the throne, the Queen was an enthusiastic needle woman, and set to work with her ladies to cover the chairs of the palace with her handiwork. She labored "with a diligence as if she had been earning her bread by it," according to a Bishop of the period, who thought it a new sight to see a Queen work so hard. When she rode in her coach, she was always working on her frame. The vogue for petit point continued all through the reign of the dowdy Queen Anne. Needlework became a veritable passion with the fashionable ladies of the day. Sofas, wing chairs, settees, and those little love seats, "too large for one and not large enough for two," covered in petit point, were prominent in the drawing rooms of the day. The designs were usually done in wool with silk introduced only for the high lights. Often a figure group 579 formed the center piece. A little gentleman and lady in the costume of the period was done in fine petit point, and this was surrounded by a scroll design in a coarser stitch. Some truly ardent devotees of the stitch even made carpets. In 1774, the Hon. Mrs. Boscawen writes to a friend, "I think it curious to see my Lady Leicester at work on a tent stitch frame, every night by one candle that she sets upon it, and no spectacles. It is a carpet that she works in shades of tent stitch." Some of these carpets are 9 x 12 feet in size, and represent an immense amount of time and labor. In France, where upholstered furniture was the invariable rule, its use as furniture covering, and as insets, panels in secretaries, sideboards, bell ropes, and so on, became widespread. With the transition of the art into England, there came a new vitality. The combination of gros point and petit point was common during the reign of Queen Elizabeth, but with succeeding years, the petit point stitch almost totally disappeared.
WITH the close of the eighteenth century, gros and petit point were almost forgotten, and permitted to mold into disuse. The needlework chairs faded day by day, and the moth carried away a goodly share of the fine old stitches. Then, with the Victorian era, Berlin woolwork became fashionable, and petit point was done once more. Crude designs and colors characterized the work. The Victorian miss shook out her curls and pouted as she tried to reproduce the oil paintings of Landseer or Ruben's Crucifixion, in the coarse wool. "Mary, Queen of Scots, weeping over the dying Douglas" was a favorite subject with the ladies, who shed sentimental tears, as they embroidered the touching scene. Others 580 copied glaring illustrations in the London News, and battle scenes of the South African War, Death of the Prince Imperial, Victoria and Albert, and like images were produced in great number. Often a fire screen was worked with a motto surrounded with flowers. One old one read: "When I was young And in my prime, Here you may see How I spent my time." We are only just recovering from the shock that these creations used RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to produce, and now, tinged with age, we class them as "amusing."
BUT, again, needle point is at a new height. Probably never before has a larger audience been attracted by its peculiar charm, and the old aristocratic art is growing as fashionable as it was in bygone days. The best class of petit point work usually comes from France, but America is ahead of other countries in enthusiasm for it, although England and France have felt the contagion. It has achieved the highest standard of execution, quite comparable in every respect with that of centuries past.
TWO BREAD RECIPES By Christina V. Wilson
This bread can be made and baked in three hours time. Fresh milk must be boiled and cooled.
Whole Wheat Bread—Two Loaves (9 x 5 inches) (Mix in order given) 2 tablespoons honey 2 tablespoons Crisco or other fat 1 tablespoon and 1 teaspoon salt 1 cup boiling water
Stir well, until honey and Crisco are melted, then add 1 cup canned milk
When luke warm, add 1 yeast cake, crumbled 2½ cups warm water (or more, depending upon flour used). 4 cups whole wheat flour.
Beat very well with spoon, then add 5 cups whole wheat flour
Knead well with hands, shape into loaves, put into baking pans and let raise one hour or until dough is ¾ inch above pans. Bake 1 hour and 10 minutes in oven at 375 degrees.
White Bread—Two Loaves (9x5 inches) (Mix in order given) 2 tablespoons honey 2 tablespoons Crisco or other fat 1 tablespoon salt 1 cup boiling water
Stir to melt honey and Crisco, then add 1 cup canned milk,
When luke warm, add 1 yeast cake crumbled ¼ cup luke warm water 4 cups white flour.
Beat well with spoon, then add 4 cups white flour.
Knead well with hands. Let raise, shape into loaves, and let raise a second time. Bake 1 hour in oven at 375 degrees.
An Interesting Shut In By Annaleone Davis Patton
Time: Present. Place: Living room in Rachel Davis' home. Characters: Rachel Davis—Grandma, 94 years of age; Rebecca Holmes—Caller, Sunshine Committee; Sarah Ann Adams—Caller, Sunshine Committee; Lucy Graham—Rachel's friend, a few years younger than grandma.
Scene: As curtain goes up grandma is seated in an old-fashioned rocker, a large picture book on her lap. Near is a table with books, a new quilt top, neatly folded, a small bowl of pansies, a glass of water, a ball of carpet rags. A light knock is heard on street door, at left.
Grandma: Come. (Two women enter, members of the Sunshine Committee. Grandma places hand over eyes and looks closely at visitors, who advance smilingly, and hands extended in greeting.)
Rebecca: Good afternoon, Grandma.
Sarah: How are you, Grandma?
Grandma: Well, well, now this is lovely. How do you do? Sairy Ann and Becky. I was hoping you would call today. I have finished my picture book for the Primary Hospital and Sophie made jelly this morning. She was wishing she had a way to send some to Lizzie Walton. They say Lizzie has two very pretty babies. I always did like twins. Have you seen them yet?
Rebecca: Yes, Elizabeth was at fast meeting Sunday and had them blessed. They are identically alike. Two girls born on the 17th of March. They should be good Relief Society workers.
Sarah Ann: Sister Walton told us they are direct descendants of Martha Knight, one of the charter members of the Relief Society.
Grandma: Aunt Marthy was one of the original eighteen members. I suppose if it hadn't been for me, my mother would have been a charter member also; but times were troublesome and hard for the faithful saints of those days. It's no wonder babies had a way of coming before folks were ready for them.
Rebecca: (Laughing.) Then you were almost an "original" Relief Society member yourself, Grandma?
Grandma: I was born at Nauvoo on March 12, 1842. I was my mother's youngest, and the only one of five children to reach the Valleys of the Mountains. She was a widow so she and I were very companionable. She had a remarkable memory, often wrote for the "Woman's Exponent." Her right hand was twisted from a felon she had lanced when they were at Winter Quarters so it was difficult for her to write. I wrote the articles for her. I did not know shorthand or typing—they weren't even invented yet. I wrote a fairly good hand. Sister Wells said it was plain and easy to read. Mother's unusual memory for detail, her description, and diction so clear made it almost seem that I had experienced the actual events she told of.
Sarah Ann: Then your mother knew the sisters that met with the Prophet and Elders Willard Richards, and John Taylor to organize the first Relief Society.
Grandma: Oh, yes, mother said that although Nauvoo was a thriving, clean, new, beautiful city, and 582 soon became the largest city in the state of Illinois, there were many poor people there because in the mobbing many families had lost all worldly effects. Many homes were broken by the death of a father who had been killed by the mob. Then poor converts were constantly streaming in from the Mission field. The women were eager to help but from time to time cases of poverty, sickness, want, homesickness, and apostasy were discovered. The sisters felt if they were organized much needless suffering could be eliminated. They heard of a group of women who had banded together to help fugitive slaves and had accomplished much good. There were interest groups in Nauvoo—just as there are interest groups anywhere. The Heber Kimballs, and the John Taylors had pianos; those that loved to sing met there for "singing meeting." There were also "reading meetings," "sewing meetings," "candle makin' meetings," and all kinds of meetings. So why not meetings to relieve distress, or help on the temple whose walls were rising higher each day. The women could serve hot meals to the men that donated their time, weave and mend for their families. Elvira Coles, who became the first treasurer of the Relief Society, bent her arm at the elbow and said, "I can carry water for the masons, I'm so strong." Everyone laughed. It was refreshing to hear some boast of health. There had been so much sickness.
Sarah Ann: Conditions must have been terrible. Why the other night little Jean was preparing a paper for junior genealogical meeting and she read how the saints at Nauvoo suffered from cholera and winter fever. Rebecca: Naturally the people's resistance to disease was lowered. Just think, in twelve short years they had been driven from Palmyra, New York to Kirtland, Ohio; from Kirtland, Ohio, to Jackson County, Missouri, and from Jackson County back into Illinois. And in three years the city had become the largest and most beautiful city in the state. Think of it! That much moving and persecution in twelve short years.
Grandma: Yet Nauvoo was a crisp, busy, new town just three years old. There were stores, homes, meeting houses, and a temple with walls rising higher each day; besides that they owned a steamboat on the Mississippi. The Prophet's boat was called "The Maid of Iowa." The fact that women could become organized in that day has always been a marvel to me. Women could not enter the colleges. A married woman had no legal status; she could not hold property, she could not use her own earning without the consent of her husband; she could not act as guardian and control the person or property of her children; she could not under any circumstance secure a divorce.
Sarah Ann: The Prophet just called the women together and organized them, didn't he?
Grandma: No, not exactly that. The women had felt the need of organization to accomplish results they desired, both spiritual and temporal, so they met in Aunt Sairy Kimball's parlor one afternoon and discussed plans for formulating such an organization. Eliza R. Snow wrote a set of by-laws that encompassed the ideals and objectives of the group. Later they submitted these by-laws to the Prophet for counsel and approval. Shortly afterward he called together eighteen of the leading women of Nauvoo—let's see now, there was: Emma Smith, Sarah M. Cleveland, Phoebe Ann Hawkes, Elizabeth Jones, Sophia Packard, Philinda Merrick, Martha Knight, Desdemona Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Leonora Taylor, Bathsheba Smith, Phoebe Wheeler, Elvira Coles, Margaret Cook, Sarah M. Kimball, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia Robinson and Sophia Marks, They met in the Lodge Room over the brick store which stood on the Joseph Smith homestead in Nauvoo on March 17, 1842. The Prophet received them kindly, told them he had been considering for some time organizing the women. His plan for the organization was more comprehensive and far greater than the sisters had even imagined. Those present realized that he was inspired of God to instruct them as he did. They opened the meeting by singing "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning." John Taylor offered the opening prayer. Emma Smith was chosen president. Emma was a queenly woman, stately, and dignified, her soft dark hair parted in the middle. She wore a lavender dress, lavender was her favorite color, and spotless white apron. She was a Hale before she married, one of the Pennsylvania Hales. She was not at all visionary, very sympathetic and fair—in every way a leader.
Sarah Ann: Sarah M. Cleveland was first counselor, wasn't she?
Grandma: Yes, Sister Cleveland was the first counselor. She lived right across the street from the Prophet. She and Emma Smith were like sisters. When the Saints were driven out of Missouri in the spring of 1839, Emma Smith and her children were cared for and given shelter by the Clevelands until Joseph was released from prison. After coming to Nauvoo the Prophet wrote to the Clevelands saying he had selected them a lot near him and Emma. Sarah Cleveland was practical, ambitious, quick, and kind.
Rebecca: Elizabeth Ann Whitney was second counselor?
Grandma: Yes. She was older than either Sister Emma or Sister Kimball; more talkative and eager to show her friendliness. She came to Ohio from New England when a young girl. Here she met Newel K. Whitney, a wealthy young trader of the Great Lakes region whom she later married. Newel and Elizabeth Ann Whitney were living in Kirtland when the Prophet Joseph first came to that place. As the Prophet stepped from the sleigh, he extended his hand and said, "Newel K. Whitney, thou art the man." Brother Whitney recognized the Prophet from a dream he had had of him. Newel K. Whitney had an experience similar to Captain John Smith. An Indian girl named Modlena saved Brother Whitney's life when he was captured by the Indians. The Whitneys named their daughter Modlena for this heroine. Sister Whitney was always proud of the fact that she was the first to entertain Brother Joseph when he came to Kirtland. She was a very pretty woman, had a beautiful voice. She and Zina Huntington and the Partridge girls were the great singers of those days and sang at the early Relief Society meetings. Then there was Eliza R. Snow the first secretary. She was a vivid, dark-eyed, sensitive woman with a spiritual face. She knew the hearts of people. None other had such a gift of beautiful, lucid literary expression. Her verse was her sermon and song. No wonder she became poet laureate of the Church. Leonora Taylor, wife of John Taylor was one of the most beautiful women of Nauvoo. She was the daughter of Captain Cannon of the Isle of Man. She and Brother Taylor embraced the Gospel in Canada and moved to Kirtland. Then there was Sophia Packard; she had been Sophia Bundy before she married. She was one of the Massachusetts Bundys, a very quiet woman, rather inclined to boast of her husband's accomplishments than her own. Brother Packard walked fifteen thousand miles in his missionary labors. Philinda Merrick was a widow. Her husband was killed in Missouri. Brigham Young had helped her to move to Nauvoo. She often told of the first meeting of the Relief Society and how Emma Smith had urged the women present to give her their sewing and to be prompt with their payments, reminding them "Sister Merrick is a widow." "We must help the widows." In fact, charity was the theme of that meeting. That very day was found an open Bible on the pulpit with this verse written on a small piece of paper: "O, Lord, help our widows and fatherless children, Amen. So Mote it be.
Grandma: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE With the Sword and word of truth defend thou them, So Mote it be." A charity donation was taken at the first meeting. The Prophet gave a $5.00 gold piece, saying, "Hereafter, what I do for charity, I shall give through this society." He impressed upon them the meaning of their name—the Relief Society. The first order of business after officers were selected was choosing a name. John Taylor suggested the Nauvoo Benevolent Society.
Sarah Ann: Why didn't they take that name?
Grandma: It didn't seem to have a meaning for their work. Sarah Cleveland suggested the name, Nauvoo Female Relief Society, which name was chosen, The Prophet instructed them to conduct their meetings according to Parliamentary rules, to admit members by vote only; to be merciful one to another; to be pure in heart; to keep confidences sacred. He begged them to care for the sick, the poor, the unfortunate, and the downcast. He said, "This society should not only relieve the poor but it should save souls." "If you live up to your privileges the angels can not be restrained from being your associates. I now turn the key for you in the name of God and this society shall rejoice. Knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. If you would that God have mercy on you, have mercy one upon another."
Sarah Ann: The Society grew quite rapidly, didn't it? (A bell rings outside. Enter Mrs. Lucy Graham, carrying a small work bag. Comes and shakes hands with Grandma Davis and the two younger women.)
Sister Graham: How are you, Rachel?
Grandma: Better than well—and you, Lucy?
Sister Graham: So well, I certainly enjoy riding and I am so spoiled by my grandchildren, I seldom stay home any more. If Burt gets his aviator's license I'm going up some Saturday afternoon. See if I don't. (All laugh.)
Rebecca: You are braver than I am.
Sarah Ann: We have been reliving the organization of the Relief Society this afternoon. We were just thinking how wonderful it was that the organization could have come forth in its completeness at the time it did.
Sister Davis: Ask Aunt Lucy. She is a veritable historic fountain when it comes to Church Auxiliary organizations.
Aunt Lucy: I should be. I had the privilege of working with Sister Eliza Snow.
Sarah Ann: I was asking how rapidly the Relief Society grew?
Aunt Lucy: It started with eighteen charter members. During the first year the membership grew to 1,179. Once two hundred women joined in one day. They held eighteen meetings that first year, sixteen meetings were held the second year. The enrollment had grown to 2,341. The last meeting was held March 16, 1844. The unsettled conditions, the martyrdom, and the apparent exodus made it necessary to suspend activities as a group although separated into different companies they carried the spirit of their work through the journey over the prairies, plains and mountains, and administered to the sick along the way at Sugar Creek, Garden Grove, Mt. Pisgah and Winter Quarters and in the Pioneer settlements. The organization had prepared them to be obedient, the lack of which caused so many emigrants on the emigrant trail to fare illy in the move to the West.
Rebecca: I never before valued the Relief Society, or knew its relationship to the development of Pioneer life.
Grandma: In 1854, about ten years after the organization, a group met in the old Social Hall and held a meeting. This group was the forerunner of ward organizations. Things got started once more, in an orderly fashion.
Aunt Lucy: When Johnston's army came and the body of the Church moved south, meetings were suspended again for several years. In 1866 President Young recommended the organization of Relief Societies in all wards and branches of the Church. He chose Eliza R. Snow as President of the Latter-day Saints Women's organizations.
Grandma: The Woman's Exponent was first issued in 1872 and Sister Eliza is mentioned in that issue as the president of the entire Female Relief Societies in the Church. After 1866 the growth was rapid and constant, and the wards were soon organized into stakes. The first one being the Union of the Relief Societies of Weber County.
Aunt Lucy: Today there are more than 1700 ward organizations, 118 stakes and 35 missions, with a general board of twenty-three members, and a membership of over 73,000. They have been leaders in all great social and reform movements, and kept up their benevolent work as well.
Grandma: Aside from the charity work they were early affiliated with the National Women's council, the Suffrage and the Temperance movement, engaged in the silk industry, and the storing of wheat, against drought or famine. For forty-two years they maintained this wheat fund. During the World War when the United States called upon them for wheat the Relief Society had 200,000 bushels to turn over to the officials in Washington, D. C. The interest from this money is spent for public health.
Rebecca: Well, did the wheat just lie idle all those years till the war came?
Aunt Lucy: O, my, no. They loaned it out for seed to poor people, gave wheat where crops had failed, once sent a carload of wheat to famine sufferers in China. At the time of the San Francisco earthquake and fire, a carload was sent to San Francisco.
Sarah Ann: The Relief Society is the only church auxiliary that is legally incorporated, isn't it?
Aunt Lucy: That does not change its status as a church auxiliary. That was necessary because of its holdings.
Rebecca: I appreciate the charity work, hospital work, wheat fund, silk industry and affiliating with the National Women's council, but to my mind the most comprehensive thing is its program of adult education—its theology, literature, sociology, art and music, closely approaches a university course.
Grandma: The Relief Society is the Alma Mater of many a Mormon woman. When she can no longer go out to the meeting the visiting teacher and sunshine committee bring it to her.
Aunt Lucy: I never knew how lovely the Proverbs were until the visiting teachers gave their topics this winter.
Grandma: The teachers were so well prepared, I just looked forward to their calls.
Rebecca: We must go now. I fear we have stayed too long.
Aunt Lucy: Well, it was a two-in-one visit anyway.
Sarah Ann: It's been a most profitable visit to me. Frank is driving to Washington, D. C., this summer. I shall stop in Illinois and see the monument erected on the spot where the Relief Society was organized. I have a better understanding of its history because of this visit (All shake hands, preparatory to leaving.)
Rebecca: (Shaking hands with Grandma.) Be sure to tune in for the "Singing Mothers," Sunday afternoon. Bessie has a solo. (Sarah and Rebecca leave by the street door, and call back, "goodby") (Grandma takes quilt top from table at her left.)
Lucy: Rachel, we don't need to worry about the future of the Relief Society for the next ninety-four years, as long as Becky Holmes and Sarah Ann Adams are in the harness.
Grandma: There's so much of vital interest to young mothers. It would be unfortunate if they were not interested. Say, Lucy, I'm goin' to give this quilt to Sister Philpott for Libby Ricks.
Aunt Lucy: That's right. The best way to encourage Libby to keep house is to give her something to do it with, even if she does live in an auto camp. That's a pretty quilt, Rachel. (Curtain falls as Aunt Lucy and Grandma are discussing designs for quilting.)
The Institute at the University of Wyoming as it appears to an outsider By Lorene Pearson,
TO express what the L. D. S. Institute at the University of Wyoming means to one who is not a member of the Church may appear, on the surface, to have little value; and yet, I believe this project to be a community affair in a very real sense, the concern, in fact, of all who are interested in the welfare of young people. It has demonstrated what may be done for the individual student through intelligent guidance—courses in the history of religion, and personal advice from a Director fitted for the task; and it has shown what may be done to develop the cooperative spirit on a most heterogeneous campus. Three years ago very few people in Laramie were aware that Mormons lived here, and if they did know they had no idea what the Church really stood for. This was no reflection on the local Branch; rather it was a compliment to the foresight of the President, Mr. A. E. Bowman and his enthusiastic partner in the venture, that they realized the need of a concrete symbol of their faith. No group can make itself felt in a community without a building, an institution; this is particularly true in a University town where the population is constantly in flux. Knowing this, the local members, particularly the leaders, devoted ten years of unremitting effort to make the beautiful native stone structure a reality. Theirs was the pioneering, the hardships, that, only as they are ended, become known. As one man said to me, "I didn't even know there were any Mormons in Laramie, and suddenly they spring up all over the town." He was exaggerating, of course, and yet the importance of the Church has increased one-hundred fold with the building of the Institute. It is a worthy monument to the zeal of the local Branch and to the response of the Church in answer to their need. Not only does the building afford ample facilities for many phases of activity with chapel, lecture hall, library, ballroom, two club-rooms and reception room, but it is also one of the best designed and most artistically decorated places in Laramie. It is with this second phase, the construction of the Institute, that the first Director, Mr. J. Wyley Sessions, had so much to do; he, with his charming, capable wife, brought culture and taste to the institution in the choice of furnishings; and, keenly aware of the awakening interest in the community, they fostered the fine social feeling that has developed. Theirs was the period of introducing to outsiders the aims and ideals of the Latter-day Saints, and they achieved this most successfully. And now the present Director, Dr. Daryl Chase, has inaugurated yet another phase in the development of the organization. He has emphasized the necessity of scholarship, knowing, as he does, that human relationships are endlessly inter-related—between the 588 Church and the secular world as well as within the Church itself—and that learning overcomes all barriers. The Institute, under his guidance, has become an integral part of the community,—it has achieved the cooperative spirit. This attainment, of course, is most noticeable within the group itself; every individual, whether a member of the Branch or a student at the University, obviously knows himself to be a necessary part of the Institute; whatever he is doing—planting the lawn, preparing a lesson for Sunday school, or showing visitors through the building—he feels responsibility in making the project a success.
THIS manifestation is not, of course, an accidental thing; it has roots deep in the creative past of the Church; the leaders have always realized the need for more complex integration as the Church expanded. And now that the present generation finds itself increasingly in secular society—even as the early Christian Church through the missions of Paul found itself no longer an isolated institution—organizations are being established to meet the new need. The first supplement to public education were the Primary Associations; then the Junior Seminaries followed by High School Seminaries, and, since 1926 the Institutes which are designed to augment the teaching of the colleges and universities in states adjoining Utah.
FROM the very first inception of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints there was realization that the whole man was not only the happiest man, but the most helpful to others, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that therefore man's experiences must be unified—all his experiences, secular, sectarian, spiritual and physical; and, knowing that religion may play the important part in this significant task, provision, in the form of organizations, was made. How real a need there was for a unifying agent on the campus at Laramie, could only too well be told by members of the Branch, or anyone else interested in students. Mr. Bowman and Mr. Quayle did what they could by holding meetings in their homes, but no amount of effort could overcome the inadequacy of space, the time at their disposal. I have known L. D. S. Students, and others as well, who came down here to school, and who, because there was no organized effort to aid their adjustment, became one-sided in their outlook. These students, for the most part, came from small communities, rudimentary, not unlike pioneer communities; and these young people had not had the profound experience of their elders in helping to build these towns; then, suddenly they came in contact with a multitude of viewpoints. Either of two reactions was very likely to occur—both undesirable: one student might decide that he had been deluded all his life (a common reaction to a superficial introduction to the sciences) and deny completely all that he had learned as a child; another might take these new ideas as a personal insult to himself or his family, and, without examining them further, close his mind completely. Of course, neither of them delved deeply enough into science or he would have perceived that it, also, is in a formative stage, groping towards truth, even as the human spirit. The danger of the lack of THE INSTITUTE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING 589 guidance in this critical period, lies in the probability that once having left the classroom the student, for a number of reasons, seldom continues his inquiry into the nature of things far enough to work out his salvation for himself. His religious education did not keep pace with his secular education and there was no one to effectively integrate the conflict. Not that these college students themselves were particularly conscious of what they lacked, although the more acute sensed it. It was the parents, as Mr. Quayle has said, who wanted their children to come back to them matured, not one-sided. These parents, who had gone through deprivations for the sake of their faith, knew the price and the reward of unification. But Mr. Bowman knew that it was a different process from that which served for the parents, and he and Mr. Quayle worked unceasingly to get a hearing before the Education Board of the Church, the President of the University of Wyoming, even before President Grant himself. The Church saw the need; for essentially, it is but the parent "writ large" in this case.
SO now, the individual student—the leader of tomorrow—is able to attain perspective and balance if he wishes: admirable courses are offered in general religion as well as in Mormonism; the Director is a particularly able person to guide in this adjustment. And the Institute is a building of which he may be proud; it gives him the feeling that his group is an important part of the community; he feels a collective pride in this. And when outsiders ask him "what is Mormonism that knows the needs of its young people in the most critical period of life?" he extends a friendly hand and introduces them to the hospitality of the Institute.
TO THE DAUGHTER OF A PIONEER By Claire Stewart Boyer
O if the daughter of a pioneer Can treasure such a homespun loveliness, And pass it into lives she holds most dear Without the loss of its bright stateliness, Then can a heritage of thought and way Be greater than the lands of homestead pride, And sons and daughters in a future day Will need no fairer, no diviner guide. For in their quest, the fervent, rhythmic beat Of your nobility will shape their goals; It will be music for their eager feet; It will be power for their yearning souls. And through the years your homespun loveliness Will weave a broidery of deep content; Each dawn will be your signal tenderness, Each night of stars the truth your words have lent. O if the daughter of a pioneer Can leave this boon to her posterity, Then can she raise her eyes to God in praise; For this, her share in immortality.
Notes from the Field Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary
WINNEMUCCA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, CALIFORNIA MISSION
California Mission
DELIGHTFUL news comes in from the branches of the California Mission. Annual Day, March 17, was appropriately celebrated in the organizations of this extensive Mission. The Winnemucca Branch celebration included a beautiful pageant as one of the features of a delightful program. The Elko Branch Relief Society reports a very fine spirit in the work of the organization. It reflects the missionary spirit and the friendliness of Relief Society mingling with other groups. The literature lessons have been particularly interesting and have attracted many women not of the faith. The fine lessons carried in the Magazine are a great element in increasing the subscriptions. During the year there have been many events which have given a fine opportunity for missionary work. Among these was the anniversary celebration where a fine program was presented in which the activities and educational advantages of Relief Society were stressed, and the delightful event was concluded with a luncheon served to more than eighty people.
Western States Mission
AMONG the Mission reorganizations of last Spring is that of the Western States Mission. We cannot do justice to the splendid activities of Relief Society under the very capable leadership of Sister Winnifred B. Daynes. The monthly digest for May, 1937, of the Western States Mission is dedicated to President and Sister Daynes. The NOTES FROM THE FIELD 591 ALAMOSA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OF WESTERN STATES MISSION. Keynote of the digest is that "Friendship is the creation of the divine, it stirs our emotions, stimulates our heart strings, promotes loftiness of ideals, and radiates an atmosphere of true nobility." Under the leadership of President and Sister Daynes, a very gratifying increase in all things in the mission is shown—the number of baptisms, the creation of new organizations, and the Relief Society is especially fortunate in the splendid work done within its organizations. Sister Daynes has devoted so much of her rich talent and time to furthering the wonderful work. As the digest says: "The lives of the Saints and investigators of the Church have been brought to a fuller knowledge and appreciation of the Gospel."
Canadian Mission
FROM our Canadian Mission comes a very delightful report of the entire year's work, showing the close touch established by Sister Alice R. Rich with the Relief Society organizations of this Mission. Some of the phases of Relief Society work, viz., that of Work and Business, which have been difficult in the past to put over, has received special attention during this year, and the women have shown great interest in the program of activities. The collecting of used clothing and its renovation and the making of new articles for families in need, has been one accomplishment. Many bazaars were held and luncheons served adding greatly to funds for the needs of the organization. The program of self-help as suggested through the Relief Society is particularly valuable to many of the mothers with little children who have not been taught how to sew, and it is a very fine piece of work to teach these sisters to do their sewing and go far toward helping themselves. The educational program has been very popular with the sisters. The Relief Society lessons are a wonderful aid in broadening the vision and strengthening the women to do their part. There have been some group conventions held, at which time some of the messages from the General Conference have been put over, and these have been a great inspiration to the sisters, for "they are at heart true Latter-day Saints and are making heroic efforts to live up to the traditions of the Gospel." Sister Rich states the Relief Society Magazine is a great aid, as is the Bulletin, also, in helping to accomplish the educational work. In Toronto in all. The educational and practical phases of Relief Society work the social spirit is not forgotten, and we feel that some very excellent missionary work is done through this medium.
Northern States Mission
FROM the Northern States Mission in May came a beautiful Bulletin with the cover design a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE picture of Sister Augusta W. Grant, and the following lovely message from Sister Grant we feel every Relief Society sister should read: "I am happy to send a greeting to the Relief Society sisters of the Northern States Mission. Among our several Church auxiliary organizations, there is none in my opinion more important in its scope or more beneficial in its results, both to its members and those whose lives it touches beyond the organization than the Relief Society. "Worthwhile as your organization has been ever since its inception, there was never a time when it was more needed than now. May you all be inspired to do your part in the great security program of our Church. The eyes of the world are upon us, but with such workers as are to be found in the Relief Society we will not fail. And from the lives of service which you live may joy, and peace come to you all. Sincerely your sister, Augusta W. Grant." (Wife of President Heber J. Grant.) President May G. Hinckley of the Mission is to be congratulated on the very able manner in which she is carrying on the Relief Society work. A summary of the Bulletin indicates a fine suggestive program for summer-time activities and a fine account of the Daughters' Day Celebration, not forgetting the message of Relief Society to all its member organizations to do fitting honor to the Constitution of the United States. Loyalty to this great country of ours is one of the strong appeals that can be made to our women, and a feeling of gratitude for our great blessings, encouraged through this study. "There is a very fine appeal to the Magazine Agents, and a portion of the space in the Bulletin is given to a review of the General Relief Society Conference held in NOTES FROM THE FIELD Salt Lake City April 2 and 3 of this year. Altogether the Bulletin is a most inspirational message to the sisters and we feel does much to stimulate them to rise to all the opportunities offered through Relief Society.
Eastern States Mission
FROM Sister Grace S. Colton, of the Eastern States Mission comes a very beautiful report of the many activities of Relief Society. To quote Sister Colton: "Reports from the Mission Relief Societies of this Mission coming in to me have certainly made me rejoice. This year these organizations have accomplished more than any previous year since I have been working with them. They seem now to be eager to have their organization one of the best." An interesting account in detail of the educational program, including the Scripture reading Project is reported. Daughters' Day met with a very enthusiastic response in Washington, D. C. We feel that the following, which was furnished by Sister Colton, is so concrete and clear a demonstration of the way this beautiful custom may be put into our organization, that we publish the account of it. The regular program was entirely carried out by the daughters. "The literary lesson for April of the Washington Branch of the Relief Society, was held in the auditorium of the L. D. S. Chapel, and 593 was a continuation of the fascinating study of Carl Sandburg's 'Abraham Lincoln.' "Introducing Mothers' and Daughters' Day, Mrs. Vera S. King read a delightful poem, written by Ann Jarvis, entitled 'Parents.' "Gladys Stewart Bennion had charge of the program. Eight young daughters of Relief Society members participated in presenting a charmingly unique resume of the Life of Lincoln; material selected from Mrs. Bennion's thesis: "The Lincoln Motif in Modern Literature.' "Marjorie Willey discussed 'Lincoln the Man,' concluding with an original copy of Edwin Markham's 'Lincoln the Commoner.' Ruth Hales touched delightfully upon Lincoln's humor; Renee Overlade took the subject: 'Lincoln and Depression,' while Lucy Beth Cardon emphasized his oratory and qualities that made Lincoln an artist. Barbara Bennion used Lincoln's quotations as a means of interpreting his philosophy, religion and statesmanship. Evelyn Iverson gave an excellent reading of Mrs. Bennion's story of Lincoln entitled: 'A Stranger at the Cross Roads.' This story suggests what is meant by the Lincoln Motif in Literature. "The musical numbers were 'America the Beautiful,' 'Lincoln,' by Marian Mitchell, from a volume of Churchill gems, and 'America'."
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - President AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - First Counselor KATE M. BARKER - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Elise B. Alder Ida P. Beal Nettie D. Bradford Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Editor Donna Durrant Sorensen - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Manager Vivian R. McConkie - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Assistant Manager
Leda T. Tensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman
VOL. XXIV SEPTEMBER, 1937 No. 9
Editorials
Happiness
"Man is that he might have joy."
IN a day when people were taught that it was unseemly to be joyous, that the blinds should remain drawn to exclude the sunlight on the Sabbath, that laughter desecrated the Lord's Day, and that if one were happy one day he would be miserable the next, came the message, "Man is that he might have joy." So the restored Gospel emphasizes the importance of being cheerful, of living a happy life. The foundation stone of happiness is trust in God, for calmness, peace, and cheer come to those who trust in the overruling providence of the Father. Again and again was this emphasized in the lives of the Pioneers. No hardships were too difficult, no journey too long, no sorrow too poignant, but what they could relax and be happy in their hope, in their recreation, in their absolute trust. One day a pioneer mother was telling her daughter of the time when flour was so scarce and when their homes were left ready to be burned at the coming of Johnston's army. Her daughter asked, "Didn't you feel terrible?" "I was never happier in my life," she replied. She like Paul had learned the philosophy that underlies happiness. He said, "I have learned in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content." So when he was persecuted or in prison, or beaten, there was a peace, a happiness that only those who trust in the Lord can feel or understand. The loving Father intended we should be happy. A noted Doctor has said, "Human life was intended for happiness. If we are not happy, we are using life wrong. Happiness is found in the midst of poverty; happiness has resisted years of unjust misunderstandings. If one is not happy he wrongly blames life; he should scrutinize more deeply his use of it. Parents, teachers, friends, servants, the having or having not, the obtaining or failing, these cannot EDITORIALS make us happy or unhappy save as we determine. Just in so far as we succeed in crowding fourteen hours of happiness into our day, * * * have we succeeded in the business of living." A friend once asked Hayden why his church music was always so full of gladness. He replied, "I cannot make it otherwise. I write according to the thoughts I feel; when I think upon my God, my heart is so full of joy, that the notes leap from my pen; and since God has given me a cheerful heart, it will be pardoned me that I serve him with a cheerful spirit." Commenting on this Van Dyke says, "Pardoned? Nay it will be praised and rewarded. For God looks with approval and man turns with gratitude to everyone who shows by a cheerful life that religion is a blessing for this world and the next." Happiness is vital to our well being. The wise man says, "A merry heart doeth good like a medicine." And Christ's reiterated message is, "Be of good cheer." R. DE SCHWEINITZ in his volume "The Art Of Helping People Out Of Trouble" shows the virtue of "wearing the mask of happiness." He tells a story related by Lafcadio Hearn in his Japanese letters, who had a cook who ever wore a smiling, healthy, rather pleasing face. One day, however, as he looked through a little hole in the shoji and saw the cook alone, he noted that his face did not look the same. "It was thin and drawn and showed queer lines worn by old hardship." As he went in the room, again his cook's face looked young and happy, and he said "He wears the mask of happiness as an etiquette."
HOW glorious is the attitude of George Bernard Shaw who looks joyously forward. He says, 595 "I want to be thoroughly used up when I die, for the harder I work the more I live. I rejoice in life for its own sake. Life is no 'brief candle' for me. It is a sort of splendid torch, which I have got hold of for the moment, and I want to make it burn as brightly as possible before handing it on to future generations." We were surprised to read recently in an article by a well-known writer, "Marriage humanly speaking is a job. Happiness or unhappiness has nothing to do with it." We think happiness or unhappiness has very much to do with the success or failure of the marital tie. Unhappiness depresses, brings illness and a feeling of futility in its wake. Happiness brings health and power of achievement. No marriage can succeed where unhappiness is a frequent visitor or where it abides continually. In order to be happy avoid melancholy and self-pity. Some dwell on one loss and forget the many treasures they possess. Jacob is not the only one who mourns unduly over the loss of loved ones. "Joseph is not and Simeon is not and ye will take Benjamin also," cried the mourning Patriarch. "All these things are against me. If I am bereft of my children ye will bring down my gray hairs in sorrow to the grave."
THE effect of the Gospel message is shown when death comes. Instead of putting on the habilament of woe and gloom, people are now wearing their bright clothes. Instead of isolating themselves, they are carrying on their duties with smiling faces. There is much more to the philosophy of happiness than appears on the surface. Dr. Link says, "As personality expands our happiness 596 also expands," while Emerson says that happiness is a perfume you cannot pour on others without getting a few drops on yourself. While the dictionary says that mental and moral health and freedom from irksome cares are the normal conditions for happiness, many RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE who are beset with trouble, because of their faith in God and their trust in His all-wise providence, move serenely through the ills of life "believing them masked joys." Happiness is vital to our well being and while it is effected by outward things, its source is ever within.
Some Helpful Suggestions
MRS. EFFIE S. BARROWS of the Utah Agricultural College in speaking to Work and Business leaders of Relief Society in Provo gave some most helpful suggestions, which, if carried out, will contribute to the success of this day in our organization. The first thing she emphasized was punctuality—start and stop on time. Second, orderly surroundings. Do not have a blackboard with a lot of writing on it before the people so they will look and be wondering when the inscription on it was used and what it was for. Do not have a lot of handwork heaped up on the table. People will wonder when you are going to show it and that it will take too long if you are going to talk about all of it. If you are going to have an exhibit of work, have it in a different room than the lecture hall. Third, familiarity with the subject, know what you are going to say and be converted to it. Fourth, be sure the things you teach will be useful in the home. She urged that less fine stitching be put on quilts that are for warmth. She said that when they are so closely stitched they are compressed together so that there is less warmth in them. Fifth, tell what you are going to tell them, tell or develop it, and tell what you have told them. Sixth, have something to show or illustrate what you are emphasizing, but do not pass it around while you are giving your talk, otherwise you lose your people. Seventh, do not attempt to do too much at one session. Leave the group feeling that the subject has not been exhausted. She urged that each kitchen have a rest and business center, or a home brain center. She demonstrated how feasible this is in practically every kitchen. Packing boxes may be made into a desk, or if there isn't room for this, a board with hinges that can be raised and lowered may be used. Then women could have their writing material in the kitchen and could watch the cooking. This would save much burning, and many more things could thus be accomplished. She pointed out the desirability of having a telephone, a little radio and a clock on this desk.
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony Lesson III
A SUPREME RULE OF LIFE—THE LAW OF BROTHERHOOD
Helpful References In the New Testament—Matthew 5:39-48; 6:1-4; 7:1-5, 12; 9:10-13; 18:1-15, 21-35; 22:35-39; 23:1-12; Mark 8:36, 37; Luke 10:29-36; 15; Romans 12:10-21; James 1:27. In the Book of Mormon—Mosiah 2:12-19; 4:13-30. In the Doctrine and Covenants—Sec. 4:3-6; 38:24, 25, 34, 35. Smith—Gospel Doctrine, Chapter 18. Talmage—Articles of Faith, Chapter 24. Rall—The Teachings of Jesus, Chapters 10, 11.
1. The Law of Brotherhood One of the Supreme Values—In Christ's day as in our own—in fact in every age of the world, men have asked what the largest and greatest things are, whether physical or spiritual. We are prone to ask which is the highest mountain, the tallest building, the longest bridge, and what not. Similarly, in the realm of spiritual values we ask which are greatest. In this lesson it is our purpose to examine Christ's teaching respecting the supreme value of the brotherhood of man.
2. On a certain occasion a lawyer asked the Savior a question. "Master," said he, "which is the greatest commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." (Matthew 22: 36-40.) On still another occasion the Christ summed up supreme values in similar vein when He said, "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so unto them: for this is the law and the prophets." (Matthew 7:12.)
3. Brotherhood is not Simply a Relation of Give and Get—In our daily relations with men and women we are too prone to be brotherly only with our friends. To love only our friends is more like the law of the jungle than anything else. It is not the type of love taught by the Christ. Dr. Franklin Rall has very appropriately said, "Jesus' hearers did not need to be told what brotherliness was; the trouble lay not in the fact but in the extent. Men limited the practice of brotherhood then just about as they do now, and Jesus points out these limitations. We love, first of all, those that love us. We love our friends. We send gifts at Christmas to those who send gifts to us, and change the day of God's good will into an anxious season of buying and trading. That is not brotherhood, that is simply the old rule of give and take. Brotherhood means grace; it means giving where you do not get." (Matthew 5:38-42.)
4. Christ's Conception of Brotherliness—The Savior pointed out very definitely the kind of relationship that should exist between man and 598 man. It was to be after the order that exists between God and man. In speaking of this relationship Christ said, "For he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye?" (Matthew 5:45, 46.) In the Parable of the Prodigal Son (Luke 15:11-32) the Savior demonstrated in masterly fashion, for the benefit of the Scribes and Pharisees, in what true brotherhood consisted. When the erring son returned home after spending his means in riotous living, his father saw him "when he was yet a great way off" and proceeded to exhibit his love and affection for him. The father did not upbraid him and punish him for his misdeeds. He saw the important thing, namely, that he was able to reclaim a lost son. We cannot help but feel that in this story the Savior meant to portray the action of the father toward the son as the type of feeling that should prevail between all men. How different the feeling exhibited by the son who stayed at home! This son had a mean, hard, critical, and self-centered attitude toward the whole procedure of his father. As Dr. Rall points out, "He does not say, 'My brother,' but 'Thy son.' He drags out the details of his brother's shame, 'who hath devoured thy living with harlots'. He is as little filial in spirit as he is fraternal; he looks upon his father as a kind of taskmaster (verse 29). When he thinks of a possible good time it is 'with my friends', not with his father." Another masterly treatment of this theme is found in the Parable of the Good Samaritan (Luke 10:30-35). The lawyer who provoked the parable from the lips of Christ had said, "And who is my neighbor?" He might just as well have said, "And who is my RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE brother?" Neighbor and brother are practically synonymous in the thinking of the Savior. The brotherly action of the good Samaritan is not so much brought out in the fact that he bound up the wounds of the man whom he found by the wayside, and whom he brought to an inn, as in the fact that "On the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee." (Verse 35.) The good Samaritan was thinking not of the least he could do for his brother, but of the most. His brotherly act was not finished when he left the inn; it proceeded to operate even in his absence. It was characteristic of the Christ to think of maximum obligation rather than of minimum requirement which characterized so much of the moral teaching of his contemporaries. 5. The Worth of Human Souls to God Demands Brotherhood Among Men.—The human soul is of infinite worth in the eyes of God. Christ pointed that out when He said, "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" (Mark 8:36, 37.) In making this statement our Lord did not have reference to man's mere physical existence here or hereafter. He had reference to "his true life as a man and child of God both here and yonder." So precious is even a child that Christ could say, "And whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believe in me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea." (Mark 9:42.) The modern scriptures emphasize God's love for man as follows. "Remember the worth of souls is great LESSON DEPARTMENT in the sight of God... And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my father!' So we must conclude that if Christ's teaching means anything at all, if the souls of men are worth so much to God, and if God wants us to be His real sons and daughters, —it logically follows that man must exhibit that same kind of unselfish love toward his brethren that God displays toward him. This is the essence of brotherhood. Questions 1. What advances in our material culture have made it more possible than ever to practically demonstrate world brotherhood? What is your estimate of the way in which we are taking advantage of them? 2. Has the idea of a world brotherhood made many gains as a result of the World War? 3. How do you think Christ would 599 view the common slogan to the effect that "Large armies and navies will keep us out of war?" (See Doctrine and Covenants 98:15, 16.) 4. In what ways can our missionary system help advance world brotherhood? 5. What problems. Have you in your community that the Relief Society and priesthood quorums could solve and thus demonstrate a real sense of brotherhood? Problems Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit. 1. Ask the superintendent of schools in your district to give you some facts relative to remedial physical defects among the school children. In the light of our lesson what is the duty of your community? 2. In the face of Christ's declaration about the brotherhood of men, explain Matthew 15:24; compare Matthew 10:5, 6. Teacher's Topic OPTIMISM OF JESUS "Nothing can replace in our spiritual lives the constant perusal of the Gospels with a view to treasure up the character traits of the Son of God that we may pattern after Him." "Who is he that overcometh the world but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God." "How good is man's life, the mere living! How fit to employ; All the heart and the soul and the senses Forever in joy!" —Browning. "Optimism compels the world forward and gives to men the incentive to fight with circumstance. —It is faith that leads to achievement; it is confidence in the present and hope for the future." OFTEN we class as an optimist one who lives with the delusion that no matter what he or any one else does, everything is certain to come out all right in the end. This is a cheap sort of optimism and is the product of a "shallow brain and stupid heart." Many individuals there are who take refuge from the realities of 600 life in dreams of good and call themselves optimists. Optimism of this sort is like a house built upon the sand. Then, there is a dangerous optimism of ignorance and indifference where a hopeful outlook upon life is maintained by refusing to know and to see; where evil is ignored and only the good contemplated. How poor, how undesirable this is! The optimism to be admired and desired is that which rests on a glad belief in the final predominance of good and a willing desire to co-operate with the good that it may prevail. Genuine optimism does not deny the existence of evil, it does not refuse to look at the world's woes, it recognizes the reality and gravity of life, accepting it as something valuable, looking forward with faith and confidence in the power to resist, to change, to meet courageously and to conquer. It does not build cloud castles of happiness but sees life as stern yet worthy, and maintains a hopeful outlook. Real optimism is neither unwilling to face disagreeable facts nor disposed to be daunted by them, however stubborn they may be. Dark things are but a "halt on the way to good." Optimists of this type are not easily discouraged or argued into hopelessness. They face the future with bright anticipation and with confidence in the present and hope for the future. They see the best in everything and everyone and make that best a part of themselves. The element of optimism in Christ's life was immensely preponderant. He came as a prophet of good with a message of hope. He was not blind to the evils, the sorrows and heart breaks of the world. He was acquainted with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE suffering. He knew the strength required to grapple with and resist evil. He knew the dark and the bright sides of life and he was never daunted. He constantly exhorted mankind, "Be of good cheer." He comforted his disciples against tribulation with a hopeful outlook. "These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world." Jesus had an abiding faith and confidence in God and taught men to have likewise. He exhorted his disciples, "Have faith in God." This is the secret of real optimism. He who has faith in his Heavenly Father and makes a friend of him, straightway feels glad, brave, and ready for any lot. Jesus had an unswerving confidence in man. The Gospels are rich with illustrations. He had confidence in Zacchaeus to repent. Zacchaeus was a rich man, chief among the publicans. When Jesus went to his home the people murmured, saying that he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord: Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation I restore him fourfold. And Jesus said unto him, "This day is salvation come to this house." Most mistreated of all men the Master evidenced always faith in human nature. When he saw that men were determined to take his life he said, "If I be lifted up I will draw all men unto me! He felt that no matter what cruel things human nature might be guilty of, there was after all, down LESSON DEPARTMENT deep in the heart, that which would respond to forgiveness and love." The New Testament though telling us a heart breaking story does not depress us. Its message is of hope, it breathes always, "Be of good cheer." The L. D. S. Religion keeps optimism alive. The confidence and trust which springs from our beliefs makes optimists of us. It gives us a basic confidence in the good destiny of life. Sometimes we become discouraged and ready to falter. In the midst of such feelings we should study the character of the Master. We must maintain confidence in self, in mankind, in life and faith in God. 601 Disheartening though things may be at times we must "Be of good cheer." References:—Character of Jesus —Jefferson; John 16:33; Mark 11:22; Luke 19:1-10; John 12:32. Questions 1. Why is optimism that refuses to face realities of life like "a house built upon the sand'? 2. Why is it a dangerous optimism to contemplate only the good? 3. What effect does a study of the life of Christ have upon your optimism? 4, Why may Helen Keller, Jane Addams, Abraham Lincoln be classed as great optimists? Literature Lesson III SACAGAWEA USUALLY when a goal has been reached, a story loses interest, but not so with this "Star of the West." Perhaps the reason can be found in the fact that after all it is not a romance but a true story of a noble woman's life. Mrs. Heuston, full to the brim of the Indian woman, keeps her tale at a high level to the very end. The return trip up the Columbia and over the Rocky Mountains was as difficult as the going over. Eager to get home, the Captains and the men would not wait until the snow had melted from the high mountains. As a result they met with many hardships. The Indians along the way were not very helpful. Indeed, often they were really dangerous, but the cool courage and watchfulness of the Captains won in the end. All this time Sacagawea's baby had been growing until on the return trip he became the idol of the entire party. Clark, as well as many of the men, fondled the boy and made a great fuss over him, many of them calling him Pomp or Pompy and not by his own name. During the long journey and the wait at the foot of the Rockies for the snow to melt, Pomp became ill. "One day, Sacagawea did not go out into the fields to gather roots. She sat alone in her shelter nursing the child, who was ill and feverish trying in her own way to relieve it, with no effect. When the Captains returned she went to them, not shyly, now, for it was for Pomp she must ask this favor. "Pomp was teething. The Captain 602 worked over him giving him what crude medicines they had and poulticing him with boiled onions. They removed the woman and her child to their shelter where they could be more comfortable and where they could look after the idol of the camp. The rough men were all disturbed by the illness and did everything in their power to assist. "At last Pomp got better. "Were you afraid he would die, Janey?' Clark asked when Pomp was out of danger. " 'No,' she said simply. 'I felt sad that the child had pain, but I knew you would make him well.' " So implicit was the Bird-Woman's faith in the Captains and especially in the Red Head, nothing seemed impossible for them to do. As she told her brother, "They know everything." When the party had safely recrossed the great Saw-Tooth Range of mountains which lies along the border of Idaho and Montana and had camped once more at Traveler's Rest, it was decided that the party should separate; a part of it was to go with Lewis upon an exploration of the Marias River country and a part to go with Clark to explore the Yellowstone, the two companies to meet at the confluence of the Yellowstone and the Missouri. Since Lewis was going into a dangerous territory, he called for volunteers. Nearly every man in the company responded, but he selected from their number to be his companions Drouillard, Reuben and Jo Fields, Warner, Frazier, and Sergeant Gass. It was decided that Charbonneau should accompany Clark. "And Sacagawea?" "Sacagawea's eyes were wistful. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 'I would like much,' she said, 'to go to the great river of the Yellow Rocks. My nation goes there often. I should like that.' " Clark remonstrated with her kindly as he thought it would be better for her to go as far as the Great Falls with Lewis and there have a good rest while the men prepared the boats for the river again. "It is a long and hazardous trip ] am undertaking," Clark said to her. "We may run short of food. We may find great danger from the Crows in that region." "Sacagawea's dark eyes were shining. 'Was I ever afraid?' she asked simply. "Clark smiled. 'Never. All right, if you wish it, you may come with me.'" And she went. Indeed, the little Bird-Woman would have gone through fire with the Red Head. With Clark went twenty men including York, Sacagawea, and the child, Pomp. "Clark was in high spirits. Riding up beside Sacagawea, he tickled the baby on the chin.. "Hi, Pomp!' he said. 'Off on a long trip with the Red Head, eh?' "Sacagawea flushed with pleasure at the friendly gesture. 'He likes riding,' she admitted. ""Riding! He's a lazy young rogue! When does he not ride? If no horse is allotted him, has he not always his devoted mother?' " The following day was July 4, 1806. The party celebrated the occasion by enjoying a sumptuous meal of deer meat. As they rode along on this journey, Clark plied the Indian woman with questions about the country. The intelligent squaw was able to identify the region and especially the mountain peaks and passes. They finally arrived at the head LESSON DEPARTMENT of the Jefferson River where they had left one of their richest cache's of supplies. Here Captain Clark divided his party again, one part to follow their old trail down to the Great Falls where they were to join with some of Lewis's men, and the others to go with him down the unexplored Yellowstone. Here again, thinking of her own good, Clark tried to induce Janey to go with the men the easier way telling her that his way might be very dangerous. But once again she plead with him saying that she would like to see the River of the Yellow Rocks. "Janey, it will be a hard trip," he warned her.... "If you go down to the falls with the canoes you can wait for us there and get a rest." "I am not tired," she said simply. Clark smiled. "Janey, you shall go. You are the first man in my party.". As always, Sacagawea proved to be Clark's best "man." Knowing the country from memory of her childhood she led him unerringly through passes which he might have had difficulty in finding. At last they reached the Yellowstone and started down that river. On July 25, 1806, they camped beside a great pillar which they called Pompy's Tower naming it after the little half-breed Indian boy, pride of the camp. (See in connection with this name Mrs. Heuston's note in the Appendix.) On top of this pillar Clark carved him name: "William Clark, July 25, 1806." "Six hundred and_ thirty-six miles Clark and his band, six men and Sacagawea, descended the Yellowstone in their lashed canoes; but arriving at the appointed 603 rendezvous found the mosquitoes so thick they could neither hunt nor dress skins for clothing." They pushed on and were joined by Lewis farther down the Missouri. Mrs. Heuston gives a graphic account of Lewis's adventures, but since Sacagawea, subject of our lessons, was with Clark, it will not be necessary for the class to follow Lewis unless they wish to do so. On August 14, 1806, after having been "Where no man had ever been before," the little party once more reached the Mandan towns from which they had started their journey more than a year earlier. They were accorded a great reception, but to at least two people, the home-coming was not all happiness. Captain Clark was troubled about the fate of Janey and her little son both of whom he had come to regard tenderly, and Sacagawea was sad because of the parting from the Red Head, which was inevitable, and the return from being a respected guide and interpreter to a slave-wife of a worthless cruel fellow. Clark's "leave-taking" of Sacagawea was brief. Sacagawea's face was pale, like ivory deepened by time, no longer shining rosy and copper. Her patient eyes were without light. But she had no complaint. She asked nothing. "Janey," he said gently, "I am very sorry to leave you in this place. You are a great soul. I regret that you must return to that slavery. I wish you could continue with us...." "Mon homme will not go," she said quietly. "Life does those things." Charbonneau bustled up. "Quick, Chienne (dog)," he said, "bring my pack and my robes. It is time for going." 604 "Janey," Clark said, "when the time comes, urge him to send Pomp to me. I will be good to him. I will have him taught many things. Make Charbonneau do this." “I will try," she said. With the child she took upon her back Charbonneau's bags and blankets, his tools and skins. She smiled back at Clark a grave, unshining smile. "Ordway, send a man to carry that stuff to the village for the poor soul." Unable to endure the sight, he moved away. Sacagawea, turning for one last look at the beloved Red Head, could not find him. With a smile for the past, a sigh for the future, she trudged quietly up to the town after Charbonneau. William Clark was not soon to forget the Indian woman who had been so important during their expedition, or the little boy, Pomp, who had been the idol of the camp. The picture Mrs. Heuston paints of Sacagawea in St. Louis in the home of the beloved Red Head and his white wife, is pathetic and might well be read in class in order that the sad beauty of the picture might not be marred. The sad yet happy story of Sacagawea's death is also beautifully told—dramatically told. The last pages of the book might well be read in their entirety. In concluding these lessons, it would be well to review the art found in the book "Star of the West." The author has taken RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE some crude journals and a journey over the old trails and has succeeded in reconstructing a personality that has the right to be known and loved by all those who love loyal and brave hearts. There will be those who will say that Mrs. Heuston has romanticized too much; that she has taken too many liberties with the facts available, yet I am sure readers of the book will find themselves championing her efforts. The quotations in this lesson From Star of the West By Ethel Hueston, Copyright 1935, Used by Special Permission of the Publishers, The Bobbs-Merrill Company. Suggestions For Class Work 1. Follow on a map the return journey of the adventurers. If any one in the class has followed any part of the trail, she might be asked to give personal experiences. 2. To what incident does Clark refer in his last speech—"plenty of potatoes?" 3. What is a savage? Review Clark's statements to his wife near the close of chapter twenty-one. Was Sacagawea's son one? 4. Has Sacagawea a right to a place of honor among women? If so, upon what are your arguments based? 5. Do you consider Mrs. Heuston a good writer? If so, why? If not, why not? How do you rate the book? LESSON DEPARTMENT 605 ~ Social Service Lesson III Public OPINION AND PROPAGANDA Text: "Civic Sociology," by Edward A. Ross, Chapter XXIX. THE field of public opinion is a very fertile ground for propaganda, but the most intelligent thinking is based upon calm consideration of all phases of a given question. Serious opinion is not the product of the careless views which are freely expressed by the man in the street. One should neither take catch-penny phrases for such, nor think he is contributing to the solution ofa problem by himself joining in such conversation. However, opinions, ideas, and behavior are the results of human contacts and associations, and moral ideals are greatly influenced in the same way. Because people are so responsive to the opinions of others, the field of public opinion is a very fertile ground for propaganda. The majority of the common thought patterns of the day are founded upon this principle. Propaganda is constantly being spread through the various channels of expression in modern life. Mental laziness tends toward its unquestioned acceptance. But sound ideas and logical methods of arriving at conclusions are vital to social welfare. The customs and institutions under which we live are constantly changing. Naturally the changes will be directed by those people who are capable of independent thought in so far as the limiting factors of the change do not interfere with the desired course of action. There have always been methods of propaganda through which powerful minds could work. Invention has made the modern world a particularly apt field for the widespread diffusion of concerted plans of action. Indeed we can almost talk over the fence of another nation's backyard our present means of comunication by radio and telephone is so handy. "All the world is a neighborhood" is truly an apt slogan. Some leaders use their power for the good of society, but many do not. Most followers fail to recognize propaganda as such, and are therefore unaware that they are being used to further some particular interest. Often those who are aware of the fact do not resist it because they are too lazy, or they are afraid of adverse criticism for opposing the prevailing ideas or customs of the times. Therefore, it is very necessary to call attention to the need for intelligent thought and deliberation upon any policy of life, whether private or public, before action is taken or opinions are formed. In this lesson the following points will be discussed: 1. Each individual should strive to acquire the habit of securing all the facts upon public questions before forming an opinion in regard to them. 2. Opinions should be drawn from fact and not from propaganda. Propaganda is the deliberate spreading of a doctrine or principle through concerted action in order to shape public opinion. It may be insidious in its working. The influence is often subtle, and 606 generally it is not recognized by the mass.. However, true democratic government is dependent upon the intelligent opinions of its citizens. Originally the information which served as a basis for the forming of opinions upon matters of public interest was presented directly to the people at the town meetings. Opinions were derived from interpretations and conclusions which were the result of due consideration and mutual discussion of the problems. This system possessed many elements of safety, and it contributed to the development of logical thought and well balanced judgment. But naturally it was suited only to the simplest form of society. Today the instructions for governmental procedure and the carrying out of its wishes may be given either directly or through any one of many possible methods. But these methods of carrying out the governmental wishes are often used to serve individual purposes. Dictators are apt to assume control of all methods of communication in their own countries. People who live under them are practically forbidden to express any private opinions upon public matters. It is even dangerous to form them lest one should think out loud. Personal initiative is largely forbidden. Laws, the levying of taxes, and the issuing of decrees originate from a single source. It is also true that the opportunity for acquiring knowledge of the basic facts of every day situations in countries where a large measure of individual freedom exists has become greatly diminished. It is difficult to form logical opinions upon public questions RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Personal contacts are seldom made in town meetings. Frank discussion of ideas has disappeared to a large extent, because such means of communication as the radio make it very easy for the propagandists to do all the talking. Their ideas are so dramatically presented to the public that the public does not stop to question the value of the ideas, and the mass of people is so nearly powerless to counter with opposing opinions that the effort to do so is seldom made. Advertising is made almost irresistibly attractive. Here it is also very difficult to secure the facts which are necessary to the forming of logical conclusions. In a country where the agencies of publicity have been multiplied as manifoldly as they have in the United States, the securing of facts should be an easy matter. But the agencies are too largely controlled by private interests to make this possible. Only that part of any idea which fosters favorable reactions to the interest which has subsidized the means of communication reaches the public by means of the press or the radio. Well informed individuals on a given subject are not those who generally publicize the facts of the case. Newspapers are usually owned by corporations which regulate the interpretation of the news according to their own interests. Separate and apart from the interests of the owners of the papers, an advertiser who spends enormous sums of money on the advertising of his business will not give his publicity work to any medium which publishes information which is detrimental to his affairs and interests, Magazines LESSON DEPARTMENT are likewise owned by special causes and are thus devoted to them. The radio sells its time for private purposes. And the motion picture industry caters to popular opinion. Each agency has its own board of censorship which usually sifts the facts which pertain to its interests according to a predetermined point of view. Under all these circumstances it is difficult to form unbiased public opinion. In order that the public may know who is doing the thinking that is back of the ideas which are presented to the public, or who is responsible for them, and also that the public may know the specific person or agency who is the means of utterance, there is a law which requires that the true ownership of each newspaper and magazine must be published, the author or sponsor of every radio talk must be announced, and the purchasers of all advertising space must be made known. A similar law holds true in its respective way in regard to the hundreds of thousands of products which are offered for sale, because public opinion is as fertile a field for propaganda which is offered by the salesman of goods as for the projector of ideas. But relatively few people seek information in regard to either matter. They do not investigate, nor do they question what is offered. They are prone to accept, and a great body of public opinion is thus formed which is never weighed in relation to the best good of both private and public interests. Our attitudes upon strikes and other industrial problems are very apt to be the result of the propaganda to which the public is ex- 607 posed. Each participating party in such controversies deliberately spreads information which supports its own contentions, while those which serve the opposing force are withheld. Public opinion upon international questions is largely determined by propaganda. The mutual hatred of nations during war times is the result of this influence. Only those facts which support their own nation are given to belligerents. Those which are opposed are strictly withheld, as is all fairness of opinion in regard to the combatants. The recent Italian advance upon the Ethiopians was facilitated for the Italians by the propaganda that was spread among the Ethiopians in regard to the great rewards which the latter would receive as an award for deserting their own ruler and joining the Italian cause. During the World War both the Allies and the Central Powers spread information among their own nations which caused intense hatred of the opposing nations and much misinformation and misunderstanding as to the cause of the war. Probably the most deadly effect of all propaganda during war times is the horrible influence which is exerted upon a nation's own citizens. Hundreds of thousands, and even millions, of men lay down their lives in the flaming spirit of war when the torch has been lighted for no other purpose than the selfish motives of munitions magnates and seekers of greater and yet greater sovereign power. Potentates have it within their power to stir up international hatreds in the name of patriotism, and they are not adverse to using all the propaganda within their means to do so, as history 608 so sadly points out. When war results, countless numbers of men actually lay down their precious lives to no other cause than selfishness and hatred. Parenthood, talent, scientific discovery is thus lost to the world. It is irreparable. The stories of religious persecutions of past generations furnish excellent examples of the insidious nature of propaganda. Our own church has suffered from this cause. False information has been deliberately spread with a conscious effort to form public opinion against the church and its members. The unfairness of such unprincipled action is clearly recognizable, yet it is a rather common occurrence to find the same type of work being applied to the problems of the day. The greatest example in all history of the dire consequences of concerted action against an individual is the Jewish demand for the condemnation of Christ. Pilate realized that the Messiah was guilty of no offence, but as a result of the planned actions of Jesus' enemies, he was allowed no alternative as a result of the trial than to pronounce the awful sentence of crucifixion. It is true that Christ's agony was part of the Scriptural plan, but that does not alter the fact that His suffering was the result of propaganda. On the other hand, Peter's denial of his Savior is probably the most dramatic illustration in the world of the weakness of giving in to the ruling spirit of propaganda instead of defending a person or the conviction of right in the face of concerted action. What can be done to foster more intelligent public opinion? People must be taught to seek RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE all the available facts which bear upon any important situation. Opinions should be based upon a consideration of all points of view. A demand should be made for accurate and all-embracing views on public matters. It is important to realize how difficult it is to get at such facts, but the habit of withholding judgment until one has arrived at them should be cultivated. It should be borne in mind that special interests are always seeking support for their own causes, and that public support is a very effective weapon against misrepresentation. It could be so used if the public would rise to the occasion. The public has a right to the facts of a case and to a knowledge of all sides of a question in return for its support. After all, subsidies and democracies are dependent for their very life upon public favor. Conclusions in regard to any given subject should be based upon intelligent and unbiased opinions. From the foregoing it is evident that each individual should strive to acquire the habit of seeking all possible knowledge before arriving at conclusions. He should learn to detect specialized interests in public announcements and advertising. His opinions should be drawn from facts and not from propaganda. He should learn to recognize propaganda. And he should be unashamed to declare himself in favor of the right in so far as he is able to recognize governing and spiritual laws.
5. Activities
6. Relate some incident in the early history of our Church where members have been persecuted. See if you can account for the per- LESSON DEPARTMENT secution by propaganda which has been spread among the persecutors.
7. Determine the ownership of the newspapers in your home 609 town. From the knowledge of the ownership can you detect any policy which the paper would be bound to carry out because of its ownership?
8. Literature for Missions
9. TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH
10. MAGDALENA STRAUBHAAR SCHWENDIMAN Born in Switzerland
11. LET us go again to the continent of Europe for the subject of this lesson. Out of the thousands of lives found there suitable for our purpose we have chosen that of Magdalena Strubhaar Schwendiman. Switzerland was her native land, and she first saw light in a humble home nestled in the shadows of the mighty Alps and amid some of the most attractive natural scenery found out-of-doors in a little mountain village. It was October 11, 1845, that her mother gave her birth. Her father had previously died, and before long her mother did also, leaving the little girl to the care of relatives. This position of dependency she began to sense and wanted to overcome as soon as possible. Thus she early exhibited the quality of self-reliance that was later so helpful to her. She soon obtained employment in a high-class tourist resort, an attractive hotel situated near the top of a mountain. Here she met many people from all parts of the world and made many friends. Her pleasing personality attracted their attention and many of them corresponded with her for years afterward. Her influence radiated a warmth and kindness to all whom she met, and they said to know her was to love her. She was religiously inclined from birth, believed in prayer and had an abiding faith in the divine guidance of our Heavenly Father. To Him were attributed all her successes and achievements and good fortune through life. She had many offers to marry in wealth and luxury, but her ambition was not for wealth. She preferred and longed for a humble and wholesome home in which to rear a family, and a life's companion who did not use liquor nor tobacco. Young men of this type were very few at that time. But she became acquainted with one such, Samuel Schwendiman. Their ideals were much alike and their early friendship developed in later years into love. In 1871 they were married, and to this happy union six sons were born by the year 1884. The wife realized her responsibility and was indeed an ideal mother. Her greatest desire was to see her sons grow up to be honorable and useful men. She endured many hardships and made many sacrifices, but it was all a privilege to her. Her whole life was given in service to her family and her friends. She was a 610 natural leader and many were made happier by following her teaching and example. Her home was ruled by love and kindness and her wishes were readily carried out, because they were always reasonable, true and right. She was very fond of quoting bits of poetry, and the following is one of her favorites which portrays her noble ideals: "Live always true and right, from the cradle to the grave, And never swerve a finger's width from the ways that God us gave." It was in 1884 that the family first heard the sound of the true Gospel from the lips of two Mormon Elders. Having read the scriptures they soon discovered the follies in the teachings of the church to which they had belonged. They welcomed and readily accepted the true Gospel message. They were eager to be baptized, the ordinance taking place secretly before daylight on one of the coldest nights of the Winter, January 23. The snow was deep, and they had to walk a long distance through it to a stream. Here they had to break ice two feet thick to reach the water in which to be immersed. When the news of the baptism got out there was considerable excitement among their friends and relatives. They noticed that the time for sprinkling the youngest son had passed and nothing was being done about it, and they really believed that the poor babe would be damned and lost forever. As is often the case, the mother got most of the blame for this imaginary neglect. Even her nearest friends turned against her, and what was a severe trial, her father's relatives accused her for leading him astray in joining the hated Mormons. But in reply she quoted scripture and preached to them. A few of them finally accepted the Gospel. Many times she was warned not to entertain the Elders, but she had implicit faith that the Lord would protect them from serious trouble, and continued to invite them, for she always felt that all she did for them she did unto the Lord. Many unpleasant situations arose and while persecution was not severe the majority of their former friends now looked upon the Schwendimans as deserters of the faith of the protestant church. About two years after accepting the true Gospel an urgent desire came upon them to emigrate to the Rocky Mountains where holy Temples were being erected and where the family could be sealed together for time and eternity. Disposing of their belongings involved much sacrifice, but by May 1886 all were ready for the journey to America. Again the mother was blamed for this move, which neighbors and relatives thought a most absurd thing, leaving a comfortable home, going into a strange land among strange people. They told her that her little babe would never survive the hard trip, but he did. They crossed the Atlantic in an old steamship which sank on its return trip. The family went to Idaho because of missionary acquaintances, settling in Paris, Bear Lake County, the latter part of June. The country at that time was uninviting compared with Switzerland. The first few years were nothing but trials and hardships. However, the parents were never discouraged. At the first opportunity they went to the Lo- LESSON DEPARTMENT gan Temple and did their temple work and also that of several of their dead. This work brought them great joy. Another blessing and satisfaction to the parents was the fact that their boys were ordained and advanced in the Priesthood as fast as they became old enough, and became active in Church work. Just now as the family were so happy and all was going well, a great sorrow came to them. The father took suddenly ill and passed away on July 31, 1894. Though grief-stricken the mother and her family of six boys decided to carry on as best they could, confident that the Lord would not desert them. In accordance with plans made before the death of the father, the family moved over into the Snake River Valley, where opportunities seemed better, the mother doing her part most nobly. It was a hard task once more to leave a home and friends and go to help pioneer a new part of the country, more so for this grief-stricken mother with a family of boys to raise. Her steadfast faith in the Lord and knowing that He doeth all things well, gave her renewed courage and strength to say, "Thy will be Done." Indeed, she often smiled through tears, and ever looked forward to a brighter day. In the new location she at once joined the Ward Relief Society, did much effective ward teaching and helped to relieve the suffering of the sick and distressed. She always preferred to give service unnoticed and without praise. She lived to see her wish fulfilled that her sons might all be married in the House of the Lord, and be faithful and valiant servants in building up the Church. She also rejoiced to see a Family Organization effected whereby her descendants might be able to do more efficient and successful genealogical and temple work. All this was accomplished through her counsel, encouragement, untiring efforts for which she was admired by all. Grandma Schwendiman, as she was familiarly called in later years by all, was always very optimistic. She looked for the good in everything and in everybody, and was never known to complain. She was a good singer and a lover of music. Her happiest moments were when she was singing the little ones to sleep or humming a tune while working. She was also a lover of outdoors, of flowers, and always had a beautiful flower garden. Her flowers brought joy and brightness to many homes and church services. Thrift, economy and good house management were part of her very nature. One of the many maxims she taught and practiced was "Waste not, want not." Visitors at her home were always urged to stay for a meal, in fact, she usually insisted that they do so. There was always a jar full of cookies ready to treat the children who called to see her. They also enjoyed her songs and interesting stories. A characteristic was her ability to use every moment of time to good advantage. During her life she developed an unusual memory through study, memorizing many choice poems, songs, the Sermon on the Mount and the Parables of the Savior, and also many Proverbs and Psalms. This proved to be a most valuable blessing to her during the last four years of her life, because her eyesight failed her so she was unable to read and because of an injury by falling, 612 she was unable to walk. But she was still happy, being able to entertain herself by reciting the things she had learned and by telling them to her visitors who always loved to hear them. Her six sons often visited her and sang together the good old songs she loved so well. Also her grandchildren loved to sing and play for her, and in turn she would thrill them all with her choice selections. She lived just 49 years after she joined the Church, and her testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel in all that time never wavered. Her descendants now number 6 sons, 34 grandchildren and 28 great-grandchildren, and so far, have 24 years of foreign missionary work to their credit besides filling numerous responsible positions at home. Among them are stake officers, bishops and counselors, choir leaders, genealogical and auxiliary officers, teachers and missionaries. An extraordinary and faith-promoting incident occurred which her son relates as follows: "A loving friend and neighbor and faithful sister in the Church, who had passed away a few years previously, appeared to mother one quiet night, sat on the side of the bed and conversed with her; and among many other things said that she would call back for her in two weeks. Mother spoke of this visit and conversation repeatedly, looked forward and longed for the time to come RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE because she felt that her time here was finished, and she knew there was a place awaiting her on the other side where she might again labor and accomplish good. In exactly two weeks from that hour, the early morning of January 24, 1933, at Sugar City, Idaho, without suffering, she passed silently away into a peaceful slumber in her 88th year."
12. Questions for Discussion
13. Why was it easy to convert Sister Schwendiman to Mormonism?
14. Give reasons for believing she had a strong faith in God.
15. Give reasons for believing she was self-reliant. Why was this quality helpful to her?
16. What were her chief qualities? Give reasons for your answer.
17. Why did people like her? Answer fully.
18. State why she was an excellent mother.
19. Give reasons for the statement "She was blest in her descendants."
20. She wanted to live alone in her old age. Why?
21. She believed in the "universality of the plan of salvation." How did she show this?
22. She lived a very successful life. State reasons for believing it.
23. She was a noble woman. Give reasons.
24. Child Guidance Lesson III
25. CHILDREN'S LIES
INACCURATE statements are often made by children because their original observations are not correct. This type of misstatement is, of course, innocent and should never be called lying. The child, as LESSON DEPARTMENT his mental ability grows, should be helped in a kindly way to observe more accurately. Children should be taught early the usefulness of being able to see and remember things as they are—not as they would like them to be. Just as the "wish is often the mother of the thought," so do wishes influence a person in what he sees and what he cares to remember. Much confusion and unpleasantness arise among people from their inability to see and remember things as they are rather than as they interpret them emotionally or in terms of their biases and prejudices. Do we not all see many domestic arguments arise from this very fault which keeps us from seeing and remembering events as other people do? Far more serious than inaccurate observation and memory is the willful warping of the truth. A variety of motives may underly this type of misbehavior. First, there is the fantastic lie which may be conscious to the child, although it frequently arises simply from his unconscious confusion between reality and his imaginary world. Perfectly preposterous tales are often told by children about their great acts of daring, conquest, or nobility. We might think of such tales as being an expression of a "will to power" that is beginning to arise in the child at a stage of development at which the power itself is not yet present. When the child lacks true distinction among his playmates, he may assume superiority in his exaggerated statements about what he has done. This gratifies the desire for superiority when true superiority is not within his reach. Care is taken in telling his tales, that the listeners have little chance to check up on his inaccuracy; and often the poor comprehension of the children who listen permits 613 the most extreme type of false statements. Bragging becomes particularly common during puberty and early adolescence, although it is frequently found in younger children. We have all heard children carry on conversations similar to this:— Eddie: "We've got the mumps down at our house and you oughta' see Jane." Billy: "Well that's nothing. We've had them too and we've had the measles and whooping cough besides." Any mark of distinction, even the "mumps," may be the starting point for bragging in small children; but during adolescence bragging usually expresses wishes and ambitions for the future. As the individual grows into full-fledged adulthood emotionally and socially, bragging is usually eliminated or so carefully worded that it can scarcely be detected. The achievement of attainable goals and the discarding of impossible ones eliminates to a large extent the need for bragging as a form of rivalry in adults. Bragging may persist, however, as may other types of exaggeration and fanciful misstatements. Often in adults these habits persist at great disadvantage to the person, particularly bragging because it thrives on deflating the ego of the listener, and this is always unpleasant to him. Fantasy, day-dreaming and uncontrolled imagination may persist in a child and contribute to his living in a world detached from reality, so common in people of artistic temperament. Frequently this detachment from reality leads to failure in practical situations and should be discouraged in the average child. Of more serious significance than the types heretofore discussed is the protective or defensive lie because it is generally associated with other 614 kinds of misconduct. The motivation is vastly different from that in the previous types of misstatements. Parents should take special care not to teach their children early in life that lying pays, and telling the truth "gets a licking." When a child has stolen something, confesses and is promptly whipped, truth-telling is punished, not stealing. The effect of punishment, as a previous lesson brought out, tends to fall on the most immediate circumstance surrounding the punishment. Frequently, parents put a child through "third degree" to make him confess a truth he has evaded or withheld, and then they promptly thrash him. Lies would seldom be told if parents could "keep in" with their children and understand their motives. See what the child's needs are and help him to find the right ways of satisfying them. If a child accidentally breaks something, don't punish him so severely that next time he will hide the pieces and deny knowing anything about it. Teach him to be careful, but for a broken vase don't break his character by making him lie about it. The worst aspect of defensive lies is that they indicate that the parent has lost the confidence of the child. Some defensive lies are merely protections against invasions of a child's privacy. Parents should not be too "prying" into all that their children do. A child can make mistakes, be justly sorry and learn the lesson without the mother's asking for a review of the details of the whole unpleasant circumstance. If the need of the child in telling fantastic lies is to inflate or expand his ego, then the need which leads to defensive lies is the protection of the ego against deflation or letting down. They are aimed at saving one's face. Malicious lies are generated by the most unsocial of all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE motives. These lies are aimed at the destruction of another person and are perhaps the most common and persistent form in adults. Exaggeration of the faults of other people, telling—with additions—tales about the misconduct of our neighbors (usually competitors); repeating remarks, made innocently by one, to another person in a different setting so as to arouse animosity toward the first person—are samples of malicious lies. They range all the way from slight perversions of truth to outright manufacture of scandal. Malicious lies are serious because they are all motivated by a desire, often concealed even to the person telling them, to destroy or harm someone else. We usually find this kind of lying associated with other social faults such as pride, selfishness, jealousy, and bitter rivalry. When even an adult is a victim of one of these emotional states, the truth literally betrays his eyes, and if he wants to know and speak only the truth he sometimes cannot. In children, malicious lies indicate that the child needs to be taught to regard the rights of others to live and be happy. Teach the child how much more happiness he can gain through contributing to the happiness of others than in detracting from it. Teach cooperative effort, not rivalry; friendliness, not antagonism. Proper emotional satisfaction is essential to prevent the child from growing bitter. Neglected children have been found to be more deceitful in almost every respect than normal children are. Malicious lies thrive in hate-ridden homes, where rivalry and selfishness are found and where punishment is harsh and unjust, where praise for good deeds never passes over the dinner table. Mothers should guard their tongues when children are present. Little do they think that maligning the character of a neighbor or relative. May lead the child who listens to do likewise to his playmates or his competitors in the home. Truth telling is necessary among old and young people because it keeps one's word good. Lies seem convenient and useful to the child, but the price is that lying destroys the communicating power of his language. He may want someone to believe him some time and they will not, even though he may be telling the truth. We discount a person's word accordingly as we learn how untruthful he is. Mark Twain made a great reputation for his fantastic lies. His mother replied when asked if she took any stock in his astonishing tales of adventure, "Oh, yes, I know his average. I discount him ninety per cent. The rest is pure gold." Parents can hardly expect their children to never pervert the truth when they themselves tell all manner of "white lies" in the presence of the children. Mothers sometimes keep the fathers from knowing all they do, and the fathers are equally guilty. Warnings to children not to tell the other parent certain things is a vicious influence which can do nothing but promote evasiveness and untrustworthiness in the children. In the opposite direction, there is another danger parents should guard against; that is making a child overconscientious about the "letter" of truth with no respect to the "spirit." Children need not tell everyone they meet all that is asked of them, nor should they be taught that strict accuracy of statement is always the truth. Truth depends upon conveying the right impression, not in 615 simply saying the right words. A child attempts her first piano demonstration in public. The music is obviously poor as music. A tactless older sister says, "It didn't sound much like music to me. You had better practice a while before you make a fool of yourself again." Perhaps the younger one did feel like a "fool," and the older sister may have made accurate observations on the quality of the music; but she did not tell the truth because she gave the child the wrong impression, that is, that her earnest effort and pluck were not worthy of praise. Circumstances force well-behaved children to sometimes deviate from the "letter" of truth. If the child is naturally very conscientious, too much emphasis on strict literalness of statement may cause great distress when the "letter" cannot be followed. Some children can easily be made too conscientious about most everything, and great care should be taken in teaching such a child in order to avoid making him feel sinful, even if he should tell a real lie.
Problems for Discussion
Describe and illustrate from your experience three distinct kinds of lies. Point out what motive underlies each.
What is usually wrong with the home situation of a child who tells malicious or destructive lies?
What danger can you see in the persistence of fantastic lies beyond early adolescent years?
Point out some disciplinary errors parents make which force children to lie? Indicate ways these errors can be corrected.
How can you reconcile tactfulness with truthfulness?
The Boy and the Cigarette
A radio talk given over KSL, May 4, 1937, by Francis W. Kirkham, former Utah State Director of Vocational Education, and recently Director of the National Child Welfare Association of New York.
I OFTEN pick up boys on the highway. "You have a fine clean face and an intelligent look," I said to the young man who entered my car, "I am sure you are a high school graduate and returning home to enter college." "You are right," he said, "I graduated from High School when I was 17. My father is dead and I work to help support the family. I want to go to the Brigham Young University this year, if possible." We chatted together but finally I said, "I suppose you did not use cigarettes while you were in high school?" "You are right," was the reply, "but I have been smoking some since." I then said to him, "I sometimes drink soda water and eat candy because these have a pleasant taste to me and satisfy my thirst and normal appetite for sweets. I suppose the cigarette tastes good to you?" "No they don't taste good. I detested the first one I used. A cigarette has no taste, it is only a habit." "Probably they benefit you in some way, add to your health or vigor." "Naw!" he replied, "They harm me, I know that." "Well, probably you would rather have cigarettes than other things you could buy for yourself with the same money?" "Wrong again, I prefer to go to movies, buy clothes, take my, girl to a party and many other things." "Probably, then, you are spending your money for cigarettes out of sympathy, to help the manufacturer." "You are surely digging it into me," he replied. "So this is the situation, you don't like them, they harm you, you would rather have other things for yourself for the money you spend for them and the fellow who makes cigarettes does not need your money. That looks like dumbell work," and he agreed. Then I said, "Don't smoke again until you smoke with me." I stopped for another lad at another time of about the same age to give him a ride. He was saturated with cigarette odor. "Please take the back seat" I asked him, "The odor you carry is very offensive to me." He seemed chagrined. "What is wrong," he asked timidly. "My boy, you are a slave to the cigarette. You have so much nicotine in you now that forever you will first buy cigarettes before you buy food or clothes. Your educational future is blank. You are nervous and irritable. Your chances to marry the girl of your choice is very poor. "But I can stop when I want to," he hastened to say. "No not now— probably a year or two ago, you could." "If you had not smoked before you were twenty-one, possibly, but, now, never, you are a slave. The cigarette commands you and you obey, for he whips you until you do." Before he left me, he said he would quit. I gave him my address and said to him, "As an acknowledgment of my kindness in giving you this ride, write me a letter when you have not smoked for two months. He did not send the letter. THE BOY AND THE CIGARETTE Another boy rode with me on his way to his home in Midvale. There was no odor of tobacco with him. He was alert, active and was making a fine record in High School. "You do not smoke," I said to him. "That is correct," he replied. Last year several hundred Utah boys from L. D. S. Scout Troops were at Rochester, New York. They called at the great Eastman Kodak factory. While assembled in a room preparatory to the visit, the person in charge of the tour through the factory, addressed them as follows: "Boys, this is a great factory with thousands of people employed. The hazard of fire is great, we shall, therefore, ask you to leave your cigarettes and matches on the tables in this room until you return." 617 There was a deep silence and pause. No one advanced toward the table. The guide repeated his message, "Boys, I am in real earnest. We must insist that you leave your matches and cigarettes in this room while you are in the factory." Then a boy answered, "We are Boy Scouts from Utah. We do not smoke." That is the reason no one advanced toward the tables. The account of this incident spread throughout the factory and the city. A father and his son of ten years, were companions, chums, playing, riding together. One evening at the fireside, the boy said as he watched "his daddy," "Daddy when will I be old enough to smoke?" A long pause and this answer—"When you see your daddy smoke again." 36 South State It's a joy to get up in a home heated with NATURAL GAS The extra half-hour's sleep—with no furnace to start—gives you more pep and energy for the day's work. The bathroom is warm for your shave and shower; the bedroom is warm for dressing; the kitchen and dining room are warm for breakfast—all without GAS HEAT means a WARM HOME morning, noon and night! ." Install it NOW! Convenient Terms MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY —win— COMPANY —am— Serving 21 Utah Communities Wasatch 1300 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine PEERLESS LAUNDRY For Health and Convenience Snow White Clothes nog Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices @ GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah =): ee | You can't see your milk oduaes You can not see the various steps by which it comes from the farm to your door-step in clean, shining "PURE AT THE souRcE _—PttlesArden Dairy has an excellent reputation. We feel keenly that it is a serious responsibility to supply you with pure milk. So Arden Milk is good milk, because it is the product of a good organization. ARDEN DAIRY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 1184 East 21st South Telephone Wasatch 3286 Hyland 2182 29 Bishop's Building W. T. GRANT CO. 241 South Main Street Summer Weather— You'll Want Comfort! No meals to cook over a hot stove these weeks of summer if you'll plug into an electric outlet some of these handy electric appliances: TOASTERS—EGG COOKERS—BROILERS—WAFFLE IRONS—SANDWICH MAKERS AND HANDY GRILLS UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Compliments of S. H. KRESS & CO. 5-10-25c Store When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 257-9 Main Street Salt Lake City | ZLCMI\ invites you to spend a delightful hour at their Weekly (Book Review Conducted by Constance Osmond Bunnell Each Monday at 2p. M. Presenting books of new and lasting importance selected from our complete stock of fascinating biographies, modern fiction, travel and historical volumes. ZCMI Auditorium—Second Floor Prepare Now For Winter Ask your dealer for It's ECONOMICAL AND DEPENDABLE Blue Blaze Coal Co. 1102 Walker Bank Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah BULBS SEEDS For Fall Planting Our stock includes the choicest varieties of Tulips, Daffodils, Crocus, Hyacinths, Peonies, Phlox, Lilies, etc. Lawn and Field Seeds For Fall Planting Be Ask for Free Catalog Giving Full Details % Porter-Walton Co. Salt Lake City, Uiah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine When the School Bells Ring This Fall— Will you have to stand aside and see your former classmates go on without you? You can keep pace with them! The booklet, "Planning Your Future," will tell you how. May we send you a copy? L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City Wasatch 1812 Please send me the booklet, 'Planning Your Future." Name: Address: All the details of apparel, stationery, etc., in her great adventure are of the utmost importance. Correctness and smartness are our watchwords in Wedding Stationery. See our smart new line. Prices $7.00 And up for 100 Wedding Invitations or Announcements. AF The Deseret News Press 29 Richards St. Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine We Maintain Progress Ever since its founding the Beneficial Life Insurance Company has adhered to the policies of sound progress. In line with those policies we are pleased to announce | the thorough modernization of our home office building. Early in September the company will move into the first two floors, which, along with the exterior of the building, have been completely re-finished and re-decorated. Other improvements include new scientific lighting, new fixtures, modern fire-proof vaults, and the latest office equipment. We exjend a cordial invitation to our friends ay it us in our new offices. %605 s on rs {p,; Home Office — Beneficial Life Building. Salt Lake City, Utah. Heber J. Grant, Pres. (is a The ELIEF SOCIETY AZAZINE Vol. XXIV OCTOBER, 1937 No. 9 Eight Long Months 240 Long Days 240 Long Nights SAVE 50% OF HEATING COSTS with LINK-BELT AUTOMATIC STOKER. Airmeter— Automatic Load Signal. Variable Intermittent Drive—Quiet Operation—Deluxe at No Extra Cost. Call or write for Free Heating Survey. Utah Fuel Stoker Sales Co. Judge Building—Salt Lake City Remodel Your Home Without. A Mortgage Do it With Small Monthly Payments Call Us for Detailed Information SUGAR HOUSE LUMBER AND HARDWARE CO. When Buying Mention Relief Socicty Magazine Phone Hyland 555 M. O. Ashton, Mgr. THE REWARD It takes a smart wife to keep a husband wild about her. He is proud of her smart appearance. He is equally proud of her ability to manage the home—her attractive dinner table and the variety of appetizing, nourishing well-balanced meals. He praises her for serving so much for so little cost. O. P. S. Stores help in giving erie quality and low budget exOo. Pp SKVAG G Ss 000 EL rons "A Surety of Purity" Plant Bulbs Now Tulips—Hyacinths—Narcissus—Peonies—Lilies—Crocus— Daffodils, etc., in a marvelous assortment. For complete details write for FREE FALL BULB AND SEED CATALOG PORTER-WALTON CO. Seed and Nursery Specialists—Salt Lake City Murray Laundry "MORE LEISURE HOURS FOR WOMEN" SEND US YOUR BLANKETS AND QUILTS so they will be soft and warm for winter They are washed in "RAIN SOFT ARTESIAN WATER" PHONE—HY. 612—MURRAY 213 BINGHAM 213 AMERICAN FORK 213 Fruits Complete (Rystat Dal ACE Sy anabab lad, Bak Markets: x: o, ia Line... Meats South Temple at 2nd East Suggestions Home of... "Famous Laddie Boy Bread and Danish Pastry" "We Feature" Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Delicatessen —_1 st South at 3rd East—17th South at Sth East Party The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Vol. XXIV OCTOBER, 1937 No. 10
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XXIV OCTOBER, 1937 No. 10
CONTENTS
The Forward Look............Della Adams Leitner 619 Frontispiece.................Elise Benson Alder 620 Elise B. Alder...............Nettie D. Bradford 621 Build Again.................Gertrude Perry Stanton 623 Address....................Heber J. Grant 624 Evening Song................Vilate R. McAllister 630 The British Centennial Conference............Ramona W. Cannon 631 The Lotus Eater.............Mabel S. Harmer 636 The Relief Society Magazine...Edna J. Gardiner 640 Teachers' Visit to an Indifferent Member................Leah D. Widtsoe 641 The Visiting Teacher........Joan Young Hale 644 Her Husband's Religion......Luacine Clark Fox 646 Happenings.................Annie Wells Cannon 649 Little Moments of Eternity..Lella Marler Hoggan 650 To My Mother...............Christie Lund Coles 655 God in Nature..............Roy J. Davis 653 Importance of Budgeting.....Loreen Davis 658 Our Responsibility.........Eva K. Thomas 659 In Brighton................Isabelle B. McKenzie 661 Notes to the Field................................... 662 Notes from the Field.......Julia A. F. Lund 664 Editorials: Tasks Worth the Doing............................ 666 Overcoming..................................... 667 Ethel Reynolds Smith........................... 668 Needles.......................................Ida Rees 668 Lesson Department................................... 669 Alone.................Vilate Perkins Kent 687 Where Do Babies Come From?...Virginia B. Jacobsen 688 Say--?................Vesta P. Crawford 690
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 980 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
The Forward Look By Della Adams Leitner
God grant to us, we pray, the forward look, The bright anticipation—what may be— Leaving behind our old regrets, delays Which bind us to the past. Let us be free To travel on the upward path in joy, Untrammeled with the burden of the years, Seeking the new adventures of the way With keen delight and undismayed by fears. For what has been is riches to our souls, Enabling us to see with clearer view, Has given us strength and wisdom and prepared Our hearts and hands for tasks enlarged and new. So help us bless the past and then forget The things we cannot change; oh, let us cease To harbor ill but trust Thee more and share What we have gained for service, welfare, peace.
Elise B. Alder By Nettie D. Bradford
ELISE BENSON ALDER, one of our Father's choicest daughters, was called home to her reward, August 22, 1937. Her loss will be keenly felt not only by her family, but by the General Board and the many Relief Society members throughout the Church that she loved and served so well.
Elise was born in Logan, Utah, March 10, 1873. Her parents, George Taft Benson and Louisa Ballif were of sturdy pioneer stock, leaders in their communities, and they endowed their daughter with sterling qualities. She was exceptionally proud of her ancestors, and she always said that any success she had achieved was due to her inheritance and to her husband who so ably assisted her in whatever she had to do.
Mrs. Alder was a beautiful woman of stately, dignified mien. This made her a splendid presiding officer. Her devotion to her husband and her family was outstanding and gave her a certain queenliness. She took pride in her family who have been a credit to a fine mother. She was extremely happy to be a grandmother and dearly loved her grandchildren. She was always full of enthusiasm, and inspired others with her dynamic personality. It has often been said by Relief Society members in different stakes where Mrs. Alder visited, "We will never forget Sister Alder and her wonderful talk to our visiting teachers. It inspired us all to put forth greater effort, and practically assured our success." She had a very affectionate nature and loved her associates and admired their achievements. She was always so proud and happy when any member of the General Board received recognition for outstanding work. She was never backward in giving a word of praise for a task well done, no matter how inconspicuous it might be. Her warm and loving heart gave her a magnetic personality, and this with her natural eloquence, her optimism and faith made her a leader among women.
HER leadership began at an early age. Her first position in the Latter-day Saint Church was that of Secretary of the Primary Association in the Whitney Ward in Oneida Stake. Her duties in the Church organizations have been numerous and varied since then. She served as teacher, chorister, counselor and president in every organization in the Church, both in Whitney Ward and in Salt Lake City. She was a teacher in the public schools in Idaho, and taught in the Primary Department in the Oneida Stake Academy for three years prior to her marriage to George Alfred Alder in October, 1895. She did not have a teacher's certificate so one of the board suggested that she be replaced by one holding the required credentials, but Dr. Karl G. Maeser after visiting her school three times said, "She is a natural-born teacher. Keep her as long as you can."
Mrs. Alder was always interested in music and directed many choruses as well as a ward choir. I have often heard her speak of "my boys" when mentioning a boys' chorus of forty members she was training. At one time the Whitney choir of 16 voices under her leadership entered a contest at an Eisteddfod at Logan. The boy chosen to sing the baritone part became so frightened that he could not sing. She unhesitatingly sang his role and her group carried off first prize from the eleven competing choirs.
She grew up with a knowledge of Relief Society work, for her mother was Stake President of the Oneida Stake Relief Societies for sixteen years. Mrs. Alder was Secretary of the organization during some of this time. It was after she moved to Salt Lake City that her wonderful work in the Relief Society really began, however. In August, 1915, she was appointed President of the Twentieth Ward Relief Society. A few months later she was made President of the Relief Societies in the Ensign Stake, where she served for eight years. It was during her labors as a stake President that we first became closely associated, for at that time it was my privilege to be President of the Relief Societies in the Salt Lake Stake. We often discussed our work together and visited conferences in each other's stakes. We worked together with the other Salt Lake City Stake Presidents to establish a storehouse to supply the needy with clothes and other commodities, the first thing of the sort that had been done up to that time. We also worked together on a Committee of Stake Presidents for the arranging of a banquet in honor of the General Board. Elise B. Alder was the toastmistress at that banquet which was held in April, 1924. She was a pleasing speaker and loved to give talks. At one time she said that one of her great desires was to be a good public speaker. Her desire was realized for many people have stated how they enjoyed Mrs. Alder's addresses in the different stakes and at the General Relief Society Conferences.
MY associations with Mrs. Alder have continued to be very close. We were called to the General Board of the Relief Society at the same time, April, 1925, and during all these years we have sat side by side in our Board meetings. We served on several committees together. Mrs. Alder put her heart and soul in her work for she loved to be of service. Loyalty was one of her outstanding characteristics. She was ever loyal to husband, children, home, friends and associates; loyal and faithful to her work. Her motto seemed to be "The work must go on." A number of years ago she met with an accident, and was relieved of her duties for several months because she insisted that she must not hinder the progress of the work. Although so busily engaged in public service, she still had time to do a great deal of handwork. She loved to crochet, and has made many beautiful afghans, luncheon sets and other articles for her family and friends during her spare moments. She was never idle. She was most appreciative. One of her greatest joys was to repay a kindness shown her. A piece of her delicious home-made candy has been enjoyed by many a one who has helped her in some way. She was never happier than when doing something for someone else. She loved and helped her neighbors in various ways. Her life is a shining example of true service to others.
Perhaps my personal feelings can be best expressed briefly in this little poem by Emmeline B. Wells: "I count thy friendship as a precious boon; Indeed it has been very dear to me; Among the many women I have known, None have been truer, or more sweet than thee."
BUILD AGAIN By Gertrude Perry Stanton
My plant was broken; careless, hurrying hands Had snapped the tender branches from their stem. With saddened eyes I gazed upon the stump, Almost discarded it as total loss; But thinking that perhaps deep-bedded roots Might have the strength to start another sprout, I left it in my window. Months slipped by, And in the room a miracle was wrought; Buds first appearing, sent up shoots, waxed strong,— The old plant never was so lovely, straight, Symmetrical as this new growth became.
Sometimes in life it seems a crushing blow Strikes at the living branches of our hearts, Leaving us stripped of what we loved the most, Only a bruised and shattered semblance left. Courage, faint souls! If but your roots are deep, Wholesome, and twined among the things that last,— The kindly hand of rushing, lingering Time May bring a fuller life of finer form, Sprung from the ruins of your former dreams.
Address
REMARKS OF PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT AT THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, SATURDAY, APRIL 3, 1937
THIS is a very remarkable and wonderful audience for a week day. I am just wondering if we will be able to compare with it in our General Conference meetings Monday and Tuesday, at which time not only one organization, but the entire Church will be interested in the conference.
AS you have heard me say many times, for that which I have accomplished in the battle of life I give credit to my mother first and foremost. In my observations I have found that many men who have been successful in the battle of life are indebted principally to the example, the energy, and the untiring labors of faithful mothers. My mother having been all in all to me, my father having died when I was only nine days old, I owe her a debt of gratitude beyond all the ability with which God has endowed me to express it. In my youthful days many times I shed tears because of the lack of advice, association, and love of a father, such as I saw extended to boys by their fathers. But take it all in all, I am grateful beyond expression for the marvelous example of my mother who devotedly spent thirty-odd years of her life as the president of the 13th Ward Relief Society, and the only reason that she retired from that position even then—which by the way was at her own request—was that her hearing had almost completely failed her. I have sometimes attributed my ability to speak in this building so that the people could hear, before we had any amplifiers here and when it was considered a great task to stand in this auditorium and address the people for fear they could not hear you—as I say I have sometimes attributed my capacity along this line to the fact that I had to throw my voice at my mother in such a way that she could hear me.
IT is a wonderful thing to be connected with any institution that is built upon service, upon giving, and not receiving. I read a book, "The Return to Religion," by an eminent writer, a psychologist, who had been an unbeliever but who returned to religion because of giving so much scriptural advice to people who came to him for instruction. There has been nothing truer written than the statement, "It is more blessed to give than to receive." I congratulate the good sisters of the Relief Society that they are going to make a specialty—judging from what I read in the newspapers, both in the Deseret News and the Tribune—of trying to train people to do things, and to do them for themselves instead of expecting somebody else to do them for them. We as a people have the credit of taking care of our people as no other Church has done. I remember that one of my nearest and dearest friends, not of our faith, was accidentally killed at the depot by a switch engine, and some months after his death I attended a social gathering of friends at the home of his widow. My wife and I and some of our daughters were present. During the evening his widow asked me to step across the room and sit down on a lounge with her. She said: "Mr. Grant I am going to tell you something that I believe will please you. Just a short time before Dave was killed he said to me, 'Kate, you know we have lived among these Mormons for twenty-five long years, they are, I believe, the very best people in all the world. They take better care of their sick, the Relief Society sisters look after the sick and the poor with the help of the Bishop of the Ward, through the donations to the Bishop and the Relief Society. They do not hire some high pressure salesman to raise a hurrah, and induce people to pay money into their organization, thirty to fifty per cent of all the money that is gathered being used for expenses. All of the money which goes to the Relief Society funds and the Bishop's funds for the poor is distributed to the needy. So really and truly, after twenty-five years of residence among this people, I have come to the conclusion that they are the best people to look after their sick and their poor, and they are really and truly one great family of brothers and sisters. I don't want to break your heart, you are a devout Catholic, and your parents and your grandparents were Catholics, but, really, Kate, I would join them were it not for the fact that it would break your heart. I took you all the way to Rome to see the Pope, and it took a lot of red tape and difficulty for even a millionaire to get to see the Pope, but the humblest washwoman in the Mormon Church can get to see the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints'."
I remember meeting this same man on Main Street one morning, (I naturally walk a little fast) and he said: "Hold on, Grant, don't walk so fast, I want to say something. Do you know, you are running your Church just to suit me. If you had come down to my office yesterday and said, 'Dave Wood, you have lived among us for twenty-five years, you have the largest livestock business in Idaho, and you have a Mormon Bishop running your business, nearly everybody in your employ is a Mormon. You have been our loyal, true friend at home and abroad, not only in this country, but wherever you have traveled. I have been told to come down here, as you are well acquainted with all the leading men of the Mormon Church from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, to tell you that on account of your loyal friendship we are going to let you nominate the best man in the whole Mormon Church to fill the vacancy in the quorum of the Twelve Apostles.' I would not have taken a breath or batted an eye, I would have hollered 'Ivins.' Good day. I am glad you are running your Church to suit me'."
That was a wonderful compliment when you stop to think of it.
I HAD a letter when I, as a young man, was made an Apostle, from a non-member of the Church, a man by the way, of prominence in the world so far as business affairs are concerned, the manager of a great corporation, in which he said: "I never thought very much of the leaders of the Mormon people, in fact I thought they were a very bright, keen, designing lot of fellows, getting rich from the tithes that they gathered in from a lot of ignorant, superstitious, and over-zealous religious people, but now that you are one of the fifteen men at the head of the Mormon Church, I apologize to the other fourteen. I know that if there were anything crooked in the management of the Mormon Church you would give it all away."
NO truer statement was ever made than the one attributed to Josh Billings: "Never judge a man by his relatives, he cannot help them, they are crowded onto him; but judge him by the company he keeps, for he picks his own." To my mind, there is no gathering among the Latter-day Saints where the company is any finer and where there is a more intelligent and greater desire for the welfare of the people than when our Relief Society sisters meet together and when our young women meet together. There is a spirituality, there is a humility, there is a genuine love in the hearts of women, greater on an average by far than that which we find in the hearts of men.
I am very grateful indeed that you good sisters are going to try to educate people to take care of themselves, but it is only fair for me to say to you that there are a number of people you are not going to be able to change. There are many people who are born tired and never get rested. There are any number of people who just naturally have no conception of self-independence. Our country today is in a terrible condition on that account principally. When I stop to realize that I once stood and counted deliberately, while watching men labor, one, two, three, four, and then ten times four,—between two shovelfuls of dirt, and then the shovel was only half full. I can not help thinking of what I was told, I think it was by Brother George Romney. He said his father was superintendent of public works, and he said he could pick out the men who were working by the day on the temple block cutting rocks, also in the great, long carpenter shop, (I think fully 300 feet long on the north part of this block). He said, "The way I can tell whether they are hired by the day or by the job is that they are hammering, by the day—by the day—by the day; and the others, by the job, by the job, by the job, job, job; by the job, by the job, by the job, job, job."
Now. You have got a job on your hands and a big one. It is going to require more than educating the tired people if you get them to do their full share in the Relief Society. Your hearts will ache lots of times, because of your failure to change some people who, as I say, were born tired and never got rested.
REFERRING to that wonderful mother of mine, I remember that one day we had at least a half dozen, if not more, buckets on the floor, "catching the rain that came through the roof. It was raining very heavily, and Bishop Edwin D. Woolley came into the house, and he said: "Why, widow Grant, this will never do. I shall take some of the money from the Fast offerings, to put a new roof on this house." "Oh, no you won't," said mother, "no relief money will ever put a roof on my house. I have sewing here"—she supported herself and me with a needle and thread for many years; later with a Wheeler and Wilcox sewing machine. I had to be mighty careful not to take hold of a thread and pull it, or I might have my clothes fall off; they had not learned how to fasten the stitches of that machine. They later made sewing machines that overcame this difficulty. Mother said, "When I get through with this sewing that I am now doing I will buy some shingles and patch the holes, and this house will take care of me until my son gets to be a man and builds a new one for me." The Bishop went away and said he was very sorry for Widow Grant, that if she waited for that boy to build a house she would never have one, for he was the laziest boy in the whole Thirteenth Ward. He went on to tell that I wasted my time throwing a ball across the fence behind the house hour after hour, day after day, and week after week, at his adobe barn. Thank the Lord for a mother who was a general as well as a Latter-day Saint, who realized that it was a remarkable and splendid thing to encourage a boy to do something besides perhaps milking cows if he was on a farm, if he had ambitions along athletic lines. Being raised as an only child I was more or less like a hothouse plant, and when I joined the baseball club my official name was "sissy." The boys would say, "Throw it here, sissy." Mother by this time was keeping boarders for a living and I used to shine their shoes. I shined forty shoes and got a dollar, and I bought a baseball, and I told mother I would live to play in the nine that won the championship of the territory, and she encouraged me. Many a night she has tied up my arm with wet cloths because it ached so badly after throwing that ball at Bishop Woolley's barn. I did what I said I would do, and played in the nine that won the championship of the territory. I have never played a game since.
WE as a people are set upon a hill, so to speak. We have a great work to perform, and we are performing it splendidly, and we are performing it—that is, the men who hold the priesthood and occupy positions in the Church—by the help of the Relief Society and our young people who are faithful and true. Just think of it! Out of all the Stakes in the Church, more than eighty have reached the limit we placed of a dollar a year per capita Fast Day donation. That is a remarkable thing, and we are going to take care of our own, and we are going to instill in the minds of the people as far as possible that statement by Brigham Young, that we kept for weeks and months at the head of the Deseret News editorial column, to the effect that it was his policy not to give anybody anything unless he earned it; that people must do something to earn that which they receive. Nothing destroys the individuality of a man, a woman, or a child as much as the failure to be self-reliant. In this book to which I have referred, written by a psychologist, the author says he pities the children of the rich, because they have no chance to develop themselves, that they are very greatly handicapped, and say "I do not have to," "I can do things, and I propose to do things," is what we ought to get into the minds of our children. You faithful, willing workers, inspire your children with the thought that there is nothing that counts so much as actions. We find recorded in the twenty-ninth chapter of Alma that the Lord grants unto men according to the desires of their hearts, whether it be joy or sorrow, life or death; and we should have our hearts set upon doing those things that are pleasing to the Lord.
I remember hearing Brigham Young praise Edward Hunter for his great interest in taking care of the poor as the Presiding Bishop of the Church. I remember on one occasion his getting rid of a chronic beggar by keeping me in his office two solid hours. I was talking to him when the sister came into the office, and I started to get up to go out. He said: 'Keep your seat, keep your seat." This woman was asking for some help. He would say, "Oh, yes, yes, yes." Then he turned around and talked to me, I started to go, and he said again, "Keep your seat, keep your seat." Finally the woman left and he said, "Wear them out, Brother Grant," and then he let me go. He kept me there two hours to talk to me in order to wear the woman out. After she had gone he said: "That woman, that woman, you know she is a chronic beggar. I hate a beggar, I hate a beggar. There are the poor—the Lord's poor, and the devil's poor, and poor devils." We do not want to be taking care of any poor devils, we want to be taking care of the Lord's poor, and we want to take care of them to the very best of our ability, without the slightest feeling on their part that they are in the class with those who are not worthy of help. Those who are worthy, the poor of the Lord, as Brother Hunter said, we want to take care of. Like Bishop Hunter, I love the Lord's poor, and we should love our fellow men, and the Lord will bless us in all our helpful efforts.
I AM sure that we are going to succeed. I believe that my friend, David Wood, told the truth when he said we are like one great family of brothers and sisters. After he had been dead a year I asked permission to have the work done for him in the temple. I wrote a letter to his widow, thinking it would be far better than to ask by word of mouth for permission to do the work for this man. I felt that the wife would have mighty hard work telling me that I could not do that work when she had already acknowledged to me that he wanted to join the Church and would have done so except for respect for her feelings, I felt that sooner or later she would come and give me that permission, which she eventually did. It was some months before she came, however. I do not know whether or not she had a struggle making up her mind to say yes. I had the pleasure of doing the Temple work for my dear friend. Years later she was in California and was very sick. I tried to make arrangements to go and do my very best to convert her to the Gospel, so that she could be sealed to her husband. Circumstances prevented my going, and she returned and passed away. I always regretted very much that I had not had that opportunity. Finally I met President John W. Hart one day and he told me that before Mrs. Wood died she sent for his wife and begged her to do the Temple work for her and have her sealed to her husband. It was one of the joys of my life to perform the ordinance uniting those two people together for eternity.
IN all the work that we do let us not lose sight of the spiritual part of it. It seems to be the hardest thing in the world for people to grow in wealth and keep the spirit of the Gospel. A young man in California said to me: "My, I am so sorry because of the success that has attended my brother. He was making eight or ten thousand dollars a year, was a tithe-payer, a lover of the Gospel, and was doing good work here in California. He was promoted and given a position in the East at a salary of twenty thousand dollars a year, and was soon advanced to $25,000, and lo and behold, $2,500 tithing a year choked him to death spiritually. I would say he became cross-eyed spiritually, so to speak. The more he got the easier it ought to have been for him to pay his tithing if he would only look at what was left. You know bankers see people's statements. I know one man who earned $45,000, and his tithing was only $600. His heart should have expanded with gratitude beyond expression when he looked at $40,500 which would have been left after paying an honest tithing.
LET us cultivate the love, of God, the love of our brothers and sisters, and the love of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I owe more to the love and teachings of my mother, to Eliza R. Snow, and the Relief Society sisters than I do to the brethren. Why? Because I grew up from a little child in the Relief Society meetings. Mother had no one to leave me with and I played on the floor in many of those meetings. Aunt Eliza used to talk to me by the hour and tell me things about the Prophet Joseph Smith and it inspired in my heart a love for him almost beyond my ability to express, in fact, my mother, Sister Snow and others inspired in me a love for the Gospel and the Prophet Joseph Smith and the Authorities of this Church by their devotion to the work of God, by their example, not by talk alone. Speaking of talking. A man delivered a very eloquent address and afterwards said to one of his friends: "What did you think of that talk of mine?" His friend said: "Well, to be perfectly frank with you, I didn't hear a thing you said." "Why? I have had very many compliments." "Well, I never hear anything you say, because your acts ring in my ears so strong that I cannot hear you talk." Let our actions count. That is the thing of real value. I appreciate my association with and my love of the women with whom my mother was associated, and I appreciated having the privilege of going out and distributing for the Relief Society things that were donated to the Society when my mother was the president of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society. The gratitude of the honest, true Latter-day Saint who is in distress, for the help that is given to him, is one of the sweetest things that we can receive. "It is the spirit that giveth life, and the letter killeth." Let us cultivate the Spirit of God and keep his commandments.
I BELIEVE, and believe it firmly, that among all the people of the Latter-day Saints who are in financial distress there are hardly any who have been honest tithe-payers. Somehow or other God enlarges the capacity and ability of those who are liberal. "It is more blessed to give than to receive," and we want to cultivate the spirit of giving. It annoys me when men whom the Lord blesses with great abundance are not willing to do their full duty. I am in favor of trying to save the weak-kneed; I am in favor of trying to help those who need help; and I want never to forget the teachings in the Doctrine and Covenants, from start to finish. I love the revelations of God to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I love to read them and re-read them more than anything else. My heart is filled with gratitude when I realize and know that in the day in which we live a man has been inspired of God and chosen of him to organize the Church of Christ upon the earth, that I am a member in that Church, and that we have the only true Gospel upon the face of the earth, the only Gospel, as the Lord says in one of those revelations, with which he is well pleased. When I think of all the blessings that have come to me because of the Gospel, I want never to think of the things of this world, except only as secondary.
If we inspire in the hearts of the people a desire to do their duty it will be the easiest thing in the world to take care of all those who are in distress among this people. The Fast Day donation alone, if we were absolutely honest with the Lord would take care of the poor among us. You cannot get a good meal for less than ten cents, and twenty cents a month for every man, woman and child in the Church would take care of those who need care and who are not chronic beggars. I am in favor of Bishop Hunter's way with such people, of just wearing them out. I am in favor of Brigham Young's statement, "It is against my policy to give anything to a person unless he works for it."
Why do we find great walls of cobble stones picked up from the hills? Because Brigham Young would say, "Go and dig up some rocks and build a wall;" in other words, I believe he would tell them to dig a hole and then fill it up rather than have nothing to do.
May the Lord help us to grow, and may you in this additional labor that you have taken on your hands be able to convert people to take care of themselves and be blessed in doing it. But don't forget you have something to do in addition. The Lord bless you all, is my humble prayer, in the name of our Redeemer, Amen.
EVENING SONG By Vilate R. McAllister
Twilight's trailing purple shadows shroud the hill; Amber gleams the lake, reflecting glorious sky; Drowsy murmurs flow so faintly from the rill, While the patient pine-trees sough, and moan, and sigh.
O'er the pasture trills the tinkling of a bell; Through the thicket comes the crooning of a bird; Venus flings her blazing banner o'er the spell— Sweet, ecstatic moment, broken by no word!
Sweet? Ecstatic? Better empty, void, and drear! Lonely is the eve, and sad, for me. The vital thing is missing: You're not here! Without you night shall be—infinity!
The British Centennial Conference By Ramona W. Cannon
FOR the Saints of London, the British Centennial began with the arrival of President Grant from the Continent on July 19th. As the train steamed in to Liverpool Street station at nine-thirty P.M., they were a-quiver with excitement, and there was a rush toward the President. He greeted all, was interviewed by reporters, and joined the group in singing, "We Thank Thee, O God, For A Prophet". In Relief Society next evening, as the members worked on costumes for the pageant, each told what it had meant to her to shake the hand of the Lord's servant.
The following day, July 20, President Grant drove to Liverpool, visiting Sulgrave Manor, the home of the Washingtons. There he dedicated the newly acquired chapel, just one hundred years from the day when the Mormon Elders first landed in the city. The Tatler Newsreel took a moving picture of President Grant, President Cannon and the Millennial Chorus outside the building, and displayed it in their cinema chain.
The evening of July 21, the President dedicated the Burnley Chapel. New arrivals in London were President and Sister Clark, Sister Rose Bennett and Sister Vida Clawson's party, including Sister Ruth May Fox, with her Counselors, Sisters Lucy Grant Cannon and Clarissa Beesley.
On the 22nd, President Grant dedicated the Bradford Chapel, afterwards returning to London, where President and Sister Lyman entertained for him on July 24, at the Royal Automobile Club. Many distinguished guests from Salt Lake, also from London attended, including the American Ambassador, Mr. Robert Bingham. Reminiscences of Pioneer days and experiences were given, which were of great interest to the English visitors.
On the following day, Sunday, President Grant dedicated the Southwest London Branch, "Ravenslea", in the afternoon, and the North London Chapel in the evening. President Clark spoke at both meetings, also Presidents Cannon and Brown. The chapels were filled to capacity, and the meeting proved, in each case, a great spiritual feast.
IT was a fair day, the River Ribble flowed gently to the sea, and the restful green of field and wood made a fine setting for the Centenary of the first baptism. The sunshine was a delightful contrast to the continued rain of the past fortnight. Seven coaches rolled into Preston from Rochdale with banners on their sides and bearing some two hundred missionaries and Saints. They awakened much attention as they passed through the Lancashire towns.
The pilgrimage began at Vauxhall Chapel. The trustees kindly opened it for our visit. We imagined we saw the black-eyed Heber C. Kimball preaching from its elevated pulpit. By foot we went on to the site of the Cockpit where the early meetings and first conference were held. Thence we proceeded afoot to St. Wilfred Street, where occurred the terrific manifestation of evil spirits on the morning of the first baptism. Continuing, the growing crowd marched to the Ribble with the Millennial Chorus at the head singing marching songs. Assembling on the right bank, over 500 people took part in the open air service. The theme of the meeting was the glorious event that occurred in the waters at our feet a century ago. They sat on the grass in a great circle and listened to President Grant and others, and watched him unveil a bronze plaque, which will be placed in the wall of the North London Chapel. One of the interesting features was presenting descendants of those who participated a century ago— Elders John F. Kimball and Paul C. Palmer, great great grandsons respectively of Heber C. Kimball who officiated, and Ann Elizabeth Walmsley, one of the nine who were baptized in that first ceremony, Elder Fred H. Thompson, his mother, Mrs. Lillian M. Thompson, and his sister Mrs. Elsa T. Peterson, granddaughter and great grandchildren of Orson Hyde, and Elders Albert Z. Richards, Richards G. Smith and Briant G. Smith, great grandsons of Willard Richards. The latter two are grandsons of President Grant and also of President Joseph F. Smith.
SINCE accommodations for the conference were not available in Preston, the gathering was held in Rochdale, about thirty miles distant. Two years ago the sentiment toward the Mormons there was so unfavorable that the newspapers refused to accept paid advertisements for our conference meetings. A missionary baseball team was organized and won the championship for Northern England. Through them the citizens became friendly. The sportsmanship, clean living, and proselyting of these young Elders has produced a host of friends. Hotel accommodations are limited there, but people opened their homes to the visitors in friendly hospitality.
Inside the Rochdale Chapel were arranged fine exhibits of Primary, Gleaner, Bee-Hive, and Genealogical work. One room was devoted to Relief Society handwork. On exhibition were elaborate quilts, counterpanes, luncheon cloths, pillow cases, sideboard mats, embroidered and trimmed hand-made lace, knitted and crocheted work. On the walls were illustrated posters demonstrating Relief Society Health Lessons on the prevention of accidents in the home; a roll of honor of Relief Society members for 10 consecutive years; those who were charter members of Relief Society organizations; mothers of five or more children; and women who have suffered persecution for their religion. On exhibition was a book of wholesome and inexpensive recipes sent in by members. The cover was artistically designed by one of the Saints. On Saturday morning, after examining the exhibits and visiting with each other, the Saints met in 633 the Chapel at 10:00 o'clock. Short but inspiring talks were given by Sisters Vida Clawson, Laura Nicholson, Clarissa Beesley, Lucy G. Cannon, Ruth May Fox, and Presidents Cannon and Lyman, and President Grant. At 1:30 the Gleaner choruses and the M Men achieved by performing - in song and speech. During the late afternoon there was a league game of baseball, our Rochdale M Men team playing the Caledonians. President Grant pitched the first ball, and he and President Clark sat on the players' bench in the sunshine and enjoyed watching the Elders win the game. "THE Rochdale town hall is said to be one of the most beautiful in Britain. It was an appropriate place to present "The Everlasting Doors," a pageant produced by Sister Marie Waldram, Elder Richard S. Tanner and Elder Robert S. Stevens. It was an ambitious spectacle, with one hundred ROCHDALE TOWN HALL 634 and twenty-six missionaries, Saints and friends in the cast. The poetic lines of the pageant were read beautifully by two English women and two English men. The richly colored costumes were made with much economy under the direction of Sister Agnes P. Wallace, by members of various Relief Societies. More than eight hundred people sat in the audience, while an equal number were turned away. The silence among the spectators was absolute as the Biblical and Latter Day scenes of solemn splendor unrolled before their eyes, leaving in their hearts a direct message. The disappointment among those turned away was so keen that it was decided to repeat the pageant Sunday night, following the evening service, to those who had not seen it. Again the hall was crowded and many turned away. The Sunday meetings totaled nine full hours. The hall was full for the testimony meeting at 9:00 o'clock. This was the Saints' opportunity to express themselves, the missionaries and authorities all keeping their seats. Many remarkable testimonies were borne of the unusual ways in which the Gospel had come to people. At all the remaining sessions guards had to be placed at the door to keep the people out after the hall was filled although it held nearly a thousand. At the eleven o'clock session, the Sunday School and Relief Society were emphasized; in the afternoon the M. I. A. Cause, Saints and visitors were uplifted by the talks of the Church authorities. In these meetings President Clark spoke of the lofty ideals and conceptions of Mormonism, and called attention to the necessity of centering one's interest and love on the Gospel, not as worshipers of men. He counselled people to live every moment of their lives so that they are doing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE nothing which will destroy the spiritual communication between them and God. He said he would reverse the opinion sometimes prevalent that Mormonism was a religion which only the ignorant embraced. Really people need to be intelligent to embrace it because it appeals to the heart and mind. The ritual is simple, not like that of many other churches, which appeals to eye and ear. President Grant suggested that each man should turn into a faultfinding critic who should hunt and examine and probe diligently for faults... But only in himself. In planning one's life, one should seek to find out what the Lord desires and make that the important thing, he advised. He also warned the Priesthood against exercising unrighteous dominion, quoting in fine voice and without hesitation the 121st Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, Particularly he stressed the two spirits always striving within us, one telling us to continue with our labors and do our utmost, and the other trying to dissuade us from doing our duties. At the close of his speech, clusters of roses were presented to President Grant by three Latter-day Saint young women; red roses symbolizing one for each year of his youth; pink roses, one for each year of his Apostleship; and white roses, one for each year of his Presidency. With the public address system 1423 persons heard the testimonies of the authorities. On Monday morning Sisters Fox, Cannon, and Beesley met with the Bee-Keepers of the Mission and gave many valuable suggestions, while President Grant addressed the missionaries. In the general meeting following, the Sisters were again heard from, Sister Rose Bennett, Sister Lucy Cannon, and Sister Clarissa Beesley, all of whom bore beautiful THE BRITISH CENTENNIAL CONFERENCE testimonies. Three Primary children gave short talks and President Grant sang. Music was furnished throughout the meetings by the Millennial Chorus (of missionaries), the combined choirs of the Mission under the direction of Doctor Ray M. Russell, the Gleaner Choruses, the Primary and Sunday School children, and Brother George D. Pyper. He and Brother Arthur Winter were among the speakers, Between sessions, the large group had luncheon and tea together. A delightful program was worked out for each meal. ON Spotland Football grounds Monday afternoon, a new phase of Mormonism's plan of living was shown. Hundreds of investigators had attended our services and learned our spiritual message; they had seen "The Everlasting Doors" and been thrilled by our pageantry, heard the M Men speeches and Gleaner Girl singing and felt our approach to art; they looked over the Treasures of Truth, Book of Remembrance and Relief Society and Primary handiwork exhibits and sensed our feeling for history and our culture. Now they were to see the physical side. The third annual field meet of the M. I. A. Was being held. As an opening to it a most beautiful ceremony took place. From a high reviewing stand on the green field, President Grant, the distinguished visitors and Mission authorities sat and watched a great formation of hundreds of Saints, missionaries and friends off in a corner of the pitch. Suddenly they began to march and sing. "Over hill over dale, ever on the upward trail" rang 635 out. By twos they came past the stand and out in front marched up the farther leg of an elongated "M". Following its lines, singing as they went, they completed it as well as "I” And "A". The living M. I. A. -then faced the stand. An Englishman stepped out with a silken Union Jack, marched to the platform and presented it to President Grant. Then a Welshman presented one to President and Sister Lyman, a Scotsman in kilts to Superintendent Pyper, a northern Irish lass to President Fox and one from southern Ireland to President and Sister Cannon. Other presentations were made by groups, and responses given. "We Thank Thee, Oh God, For A Prophet" and "Carry On" were sung. The field meet was by districts, M Men taking part in regular events, Gleaners and Bee-Hive girls running in shorter races. A dance at the Carlton closed the four day conference. Features were exhibitions of country dancing by the Bristol and Scottish Districts, the latter in kilts, and a grand march where in sixteens the whole formation sang "Carry On". Then handshaking and goodbyes, and away to Ireland, Scotland, Wales and the counties of England the happy groups departed. President Grant declared it one of the finest gatherings he had ever attended. To the Saints his presence made it perhaps the best they will ever attend. Blessed by perfect weather, blessed by unusual enthusiasm and joyfulness, and blessed especially by an outpouring of the good Spirit the unforgettable Centennial Conference came to an end. The Lotus Eater By Mabel S. Harmer Chapter V WHEN Danny was two years old his father bought him a complete cowboy outfit for a birthday present. "But Dan!" protested Helen laughing, "It will be two years before he is big enough to wear that outfit and much longer than that before he can ride a horse." "Well, I don't know about that," said Dan looking at his sturdy son with pride. "The way that boy is growing he'll be ready for the saddle 'most any day now and it's best to be prepared. One of these days: we'll be riding the range together, won't we old man?" Danny's answer was a punch to his father's broad chest with his tightly doubled little fist. Helen had declared more than once that Dan was teaching the boy too many rough tricks but he went blissfully on and would romp with Danny by the hour on the kitchen floor until Helen would gather the baby up under one arm and take him off to bed uttering loud protests. She was amused now remembering the days before the baby's birth when she had worried because of Dan's lack of interest in the boy. His delight in the chubby, blue eyed youngster was unbounded and he spent many an evening hour building air castles for "the judge" as he still occasionally called the boy. Helen herself wondered how she had ever lived without the delightful mischief maker about to work for or to romp with during the day and to hold in her arms with his fair head against her shoulder at night. She still had her moments of loneliness, especially during the long cold winter when it was almost impossible to get away from the ranch with the baby. Looking for the mail from home became almost an obsession and she dreamed constantly of the time when Danny would be old enough to take on a visit to California. She would have been fairly contented at the ranch, now that she had the baby to help fill her days, if it had not been for the utter lack of good music. She derived a great deal of pleasure from her own playing on her violin but she hungered to hear once more a real concert or an orchestra that played something better than jazz dance music. "THE winter after Danny turned two, Dan's sister Marta, who was now out of school, came to live with them so that Helen would have companionship on the days that Dan was away from home. The snow held off until after the first of December that year for which Helen was very grateful. The isolation of the ranch during the winter months and the howl of the coyotes was something she felt she would never be reconciled to. During January Dan left with a carload of cattle for an eastern livestock market expecting to be gone a week or ten days. He had left a good supply of wood cut for THE LOTUS EATER fuel and made everything as comfortable as possible for the two women and left them with instructions to "sit tight and have a nice cozy time." Two days after he had left Danny developed a severe cold which rapidly became worse. There had been slight colds in the past which had yielded easily to the simple remedies of which Helen had a complete stock, but this time, in spite of everything she could do, the baby's temperature continued to rise and his breathing became heavy. "I can't cope with this any longer," she said finally to Marta, "I've got to get a doctor here." Marta glanced apprehensively out of the window where a stiff wind was drifting the snow about in great billows. "Couldn't you wait until morning? Perhaps he will be better by then or the storm will have died down. I don't see how you can possibly get through now," she said. "I've got to get through," answered Helen grimly, as she looked down at Danny's flushed cheeks. "Then let me go," said Marta. "You can take care of the baby so much better than I." For a brief moment Helen was sorely tempted to let the girl go. It might be hours before she could get back and it would be torture to leave the sick baby and not know what was happening during that time but she couldn't ask Marta to attempt such an ordeal, even for Danny, and she answered, "No thanks, Marta. I can't send you. I'll make it all right." She left minute instructions regarding the baby's care and dressed in the warmest clothing she could find. It took what seemed 637 an eternity to her, merely to fight her way to the stable. Once inside she saddled the horse and: rode him most unwillingly into the biting snow and wind. The nearest telephone was at Jennings, two miles down the road. What a fool she had been, she thought bitterly, never to have had one put in. It was true they had scarcely any need for one since groceries could not be ordered for delivery, anyway, and their social calls were very few but they should have forseen that an emergency like the present might arise. She drew her scarf around her head and leaned down over the horse's neck. The snow drove relentlessly into her face and her hands and feet soon became numb. The animal floundered almost helplessly about and Helen tried desperately to urge him on. "Come on, old fellow,' she cried, her voice choking, "it's for Danny." It seemed that half the snow in the valley was being piled into the roadway. Why, oh why, she thought, should anyone live in such a country where nature seemed to let the weather out of all bounds? "Tf Danny gets better—"' she began and then said to herself stoutly, "When Danny gets better, T'll take him home where he can play all day in the sunshine." They fought their way almost blindly through the storm and when they finally arrived at the Jennings door both Helen and the animal were utterly spent. Helen's hands were so cold and numb that she opened the door without the formality of knocking and the family seated about the fire inside stared at her in amazement. "My land, child," gasped Mrs. 638 Jennings, "whatever made you come out in such a storm?" "Tt's Danny," said Helen brokenly. "He's sick and I've just got to have a doctor." "Well, sit right down and get warm," said the older woman pushing Helen gently into a chair and beginning to remove her wraps. "Pa, you phone for her and tell the doctor to come right out and not wait for the storm to die down neither." "Shucks, Dr. Ward don't think nuthin' of a storm," said Pa Jennings as he went to the telephone. "He's been running around in 'em for twenty years now." Helen clung to her wraps when Mrs. Jennings offered to take them. "I can't stay," she said, "I've been two hours on the way now and Marta is alone with the baby. If you'll lend me a fresh horse I’ll start right back." "Horse nothing," declared Pa Jennings. "I’ll harness up the covered sleigh and take you back." "And I'll come too," joined in his wife. "I've nursed more cases of pneumony than you've ever heard about." Tears came to Helen's eyes. "Oh, if you only would," she cried. "I feel so helpless and alone. But I can't take you out in this storm!" "Humph!" replied Mrs. Jennings' with a shrug of her ample shoulders, "I guess one storm more or less ain't agoin' to hurt me after all the ones I've lived through. I drove five miles through one as bad as this and helped bring a baby to Fannie Miller. Here, Sadie," to one of her -daughters, "wrap up these irons from the stove and we'll take 'em along to keep our feet warm." The two women sat in the rear of the sleigh and drew quilts RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE around them to help keep the wind from driving the chill into their bodies. Mr. Jennings sheltered himself as best he could while driving as they fought their way on through the storm. The horses crept through the drifts at snail's pace and at times Helen felt that she would scream if she couldn't do something to help them cover the ground a little more rapidly. Mrs. Jennings talked and tried to divert her mind from the thoughts of the sick boy but Helen only answered her absent-mindedly in between her prayers that they would be able to get back more quickly and that Danny would not be any worse. They finally ploughed their way through to her own doorway and Helen rushed into the house. "How is he?' she gasped as soon as she was inside the door. "About the same, I think," was Marta's answer. "He has been awiully restless. I thought that you would never get back." "Let's have a look at this boy who has been scaring his mother to death," said Mrs. Jennings as she drew off her many wraps. She set to work with the efficiency of one who has had to be both doctor and nurse on many occasions and before long the baby was breathing much easier and his fever had subsided considerably. Now that Helen had someone else to share the responsibility she began to show the effects. Of the strain she had been under and Mrs. Jennings ordered her to go and rest up or she would need the doctor worse than the baby did. It was nightfall before the doctor arrived bringing necessary medicines and reassurance to the anxious mother's heart. He tried THE LOTUS EATER to joke with Helen a little before he left and said with a chuckle, "Now I want you to take better care of that boy. I don't pass out fine babies like that every day of the week." "Don't worry," said Helen grimly, "I'm going to take care of him." WITHIN a few weeks Danny was playing around again very much like his old lively self much to the satisfaction of his anxious parents. Helen decided that she would take him to California as soon as it was safe to travel through the mountains so that he could have plenty of sunshine in which to complete his recovery. The snow drifts lay on the pass through the highest part of the canyon until late in May and it was June before the road had dried sufficiently for them to drive a car through to Junction City. Helen tried to persuade Dan to go with them but he insisted that he couldn't be spared from the ranch. She rather believed that he was diffident about meeting her people for the first time and didn't press the matter. He said something vague about coming and getting her if she stayed too long but Helen was quite sure that he didn't have any such intentions. She realized that summer was a busy time on the ranch and after all, the important thing was to get Danny away to a milder climate. Helen felt more light-hearted than she had done in years as they drove through the canyon, lovely in its gay dress of early summer foliage. Going home for the first time in five years. She wondered if she had changed much and if she would look "countrified" and "out of date." Anyway, she had Danny, she thought gazing down 639 affectionately at the boy and she defied any of her family to have produced anything more wonderful in five years' time. Dan bade them goodbye at the station with a crooked smile and more than a suspicion of tears in his eyes. "Take good care of your mother," he said, giving Danny's cheek a playful pinch, "and bring me a present when you come back." "I'll bwing you a puppy," promised Danny, who could think of nothing more desirable for anyone at any time than a dog. Danny was wildly excited at the prospect of riding on a "sure nuff train” and Helen felt her own spirits rise as they journeyed toward the West. It was good to get away from the deadly routine of ranch life. To see people who had been places and were going places and to order food from a printed menu. She had telegraphed her father to meet her at I: os Angeles and her heart was beating wildly as she and Danny pushed their way through the crewds from the train. At last she saw him. Dear old Dad! With hair a little grayer and a few more wrinkles but the same cheery lovable smile that she had so missed. The next minute she was in his arms and Danny seemed quite forgotten until he piped in a solemn voice, "Here's me." "Yes, yes, young man," laughed his grandfather as he released Helen and swung the boy up in his arms, "and what a fine young fellow he is." They were soon out in the car and speeding toward their home in Long Beach where a tumultuous welcome awaited them. The two boys, Marvin and Ted had 640 grown into tall lanky youths in the time she had been away and Nina had changed from a square little girl into a lovely slender miss of eighteen. "I declare you've all grown out of bounds, even you mother," she laughed. "Tut, tut," said her father. "At your mother's age a few extra pounds are very becoming." "And as long as your father thinks so, I'm not bothering about going on a diet," replied Mrs. Burt decisively. "J wasn't inferring that you should," said Helen giving her an extra hug. "In fact I think you are grand just as you are." Danny at once became the center of attraction and Helen protested that they would spoil him until he couldn't be lived with, but her father replied complacently that it was every grandparent's privilege to spoil the first grandchild. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LATE that night after Danny had been tucked into bed Helen went out on the porch and sat down on the step with her head resting against the pillar as she used to do years ago. The rich sweet odor of growing things crept over her and she took deep breaths of the pungent night air. Although she could not see the ocean in the distance she felt its presence and a thrill of happiness swept through her as she thought of the joyous times she and Danny would have playing in the sands. A few minutes later her mother came out and settled herself down in a rocker. Helen moved over and Jeaned her head against her mother's knee. As she reached down and stroked her daughter's head Helen murmured in tremulous tones, "Oh, mother, it's so good to be back." (To be continued) The Relief Society Magazine "THAT the daily lives of its members be enriched, through study and recreation, the Relief Society has given us the Relief Society Magazine. Published each month, it is a cultural asset to the Latter-day Saint home. Its trend is toward spiritual uplift. Informative and educational in character it is an aid to fuller living. Through the years, women have been raised from comparative obscurity to a place of prominence in civic as well as home life. To meet the demands of progress, much study is required. That much can be gleaned from text and articles is the hope of the editorial staff through the pages of our magazine. A digest of world happenings, and articles on travel, biography and religion are here combined with poetry, literature and art. Containing the text of each week's lessons, The Relief Society Magazine is of inestimable value to members and class-leaders. Careful study for each assignment will increase the joys of living, through knowledge and understanding. To study is it grow.—Edna J. Gardiner. Teachers' Visit to An Indifferent Member By Leah D. Widtsoe Hostess—Mrs. MacDonald. TreacHers—Mrs. Christianson and Mrs. Burton. Marp—Mrs. Lorentzen. Scene I (Sister Christianson calls for Sister Burton. Knocks.) SISTER BURTON: Come in. Oh, Good Morning, Sister Christianson. Isn't ita beautiful day for our visits? (Puts on hat and coat) SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Yes, indeed. I hope you're feeling well, Sister Burton. Sister Burton: Yes, thank you. How are you? SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Very well and eager to make our visits. SisTER Burton: Shall we have a word of prayer first. I think it is your turn. SISTER CHRISTIANSON: (nods and prays) Our Father in Heaven. We come before thee at this time to ask that thou wilt be with us during our special work for Thy cause this day. Help us to understand our privilege and inspire us to give each sister whom we visit the help she may need in her life's problems, Bless those whose homes we shall visit; may they desire to receive us and accept the spiritual uplift that comes only from thee to those who love and serve thee. We are on thy special work, Father. Bless our efforts for good. May we leave some ray of hope and blessing in every home we visit and may every home in our district be open to us this day. We ask this blessing in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. (They proceed on their visits) SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Shall we visit Sister MacDonald today? She's always so busy with her social duties. Sister Burton: Yes, let's try again and give her a special invitation this time to come to Relief Society. Scene IT (They knock at the home of Sister MacDonald) SISTER MacDonatp: (who is doing some writing—aside to the maid who is busy dusting) Oh, my goodness, here come the Relief Society teachers again. What a nuisance! I wish they wouldn't call. I just can't see them today. But, go let them in. SISTER LORENTZEN: (goes to the door—opens it.) SIsTER Burton: Good morning. We are the Relief Society teachers. Is Mrs. MacDonald in? SISTER LORENTZEN: (rather hesitatingly) Ye-s-s. Will you come in? SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Wait just a moment, please. Are you a member of the L. D. S. Church? SISTER LORENTZEN: Yes—I am. SISTER Burton: Is your home in Salt Lake City? SISTER LORENTZEN: No, I came from Nephi. SISTER Burton: Do you attend Sunday School or Mutual in the Ward? S1sTER LorENtTzEN: I did attend Mutual once but felt so strange I haven't been again. SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Do you know that the Lion House has a special M. I. A. Meeting every Thursday evening at 7:30? They are most interesting. Try to go sometime. 642 SISTER LORENTZEN: Thank you, I wil. SisTER Burton: And do come to our Ward again sometime. We will be most happy to make you acquainted with some of the young people. SISTER LORENTZEN: Thank you so much, I'll try. Scene III
SISTER MacDonald: Oh, good morning, sisters.
SISTER Burton: How are you today, Sister MacDonald?
SISTER MacDonald: Oh, just terribly busy I haven't a moment to spare.
SISTER Burton: Well, we are not going to stay long. We have just called to inquire after your welfare and to leave a message.
Sister MacDonald: Well, that's kind of you, but really I am very busy. I have an appointment that I should keep in half an hour.
SISTER Burton: We won't detain you long, but may we take a moment to tell you about our Relief Society meetings this year? They are so interesting. Our lessons are most helpful—they seem to be just what we all need.
Sister MacDonald: Well, maybe for you, but I just don't have time for Relief Society. I'm a member of a Literary Club and a Music Club and I just haven't time for anything else. But—won't you sit down?
SISTER CHRISTIANSON: You know Sister MacDonald, Relief Society does something for me that I never get from any club and I have been a club worker, too, all my life.
SISTER MacDonald: (becoming rather interested) That is interesting. Just what do you mean? Will you explain it to me?
SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Well, you know life may be said to move on four planes, the physical, the mental,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the moral, and the spiritual. Most people live on the physical plane, spending all their time in looking after the needs of their families. That is most necessary, of course, but the physical alone is not enough; to keep abreast of the times we must develop our mentalities.
Sister MacDonald: I have always tried to develop myself mentally but I thought the Relief Society was merely a religious organization.
SISTER CHRISTIANSON: This intellectual stimulus we receive from our wonderful lessons in the Relief Society. A splendid moral development we obtain from our Charity work and above all, a unique spiritual uplift in our study of the truths of the Gospel of Christ. Why, the very fact that our meetings are opened and closed with prayer and the singing of a heartfelt hymn makes me feel a nearness to a Higher Power that I never obtain from any other study group or social group. To me, it's a real inspiration that lasts throughout the week.
SISTER MacDonald: Well, I'd never thought of it just like that.
SISTER Burton: Our special message this month, Sister MacDonald, concerns the lesson of the Good Neighbor as taught by our Savior in the parable of the Good Samaritan. Even President Roosevelt is talking a great deal these days about the nations being good Neighbors. And goodness knows we need that ideal developed right at this time in the midst of turmoil and war.
SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Yes, and isn't it really interesting that the Prophet Joseph was inspired to found our Society that the entire sisterhood of the church might have an opportunity to serve and be good neighbors to all.
SISTER MacDonald: Oh, well, I haven't time to bother about my
TEACHERS' VISIT TO AN INDIFFERENT MEMBER 643
neighbors. I don't even know who they are.
SISTER CHRISTIANSON: The parable teaches us that anyone in need is in reality our neighbor. And the blessing it gives us to help others in time of need is truly Christ-like.
SISTER MacDonald: There are not many poor in our district are there? How can I help?
SISTER Burton: Sometimes people are more in need of comfort or a word of encouragement than they are of bread. The man in the parable had bodily wounds but wounds of the spirit are often more serious and harder to heal. We may never know how much a friendly hand shake or a cheerful greeting may help those who are wounded in spirit. Besides, there are many wards that have more poor than they can take care of and it is our privilege to help them.
SISTER MacDonald: I think that is true.
SISTER Christianson: I'm sure we all need to be more helpful and generous in our feelings to others and the Relief Society gives us the opportunity to do just that. Do try and find time to come to meeting next Tuesday, Sister MacDonald.
SISTER MacDonald: You make it all sound very interesting, but I haven't been to Relief Society for so long—I—I—
SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Sister MacDonald, I don't live very far away. Let me call for you next Tuesday, I'd love to do it.
SISTER MacDonald: That is very kind of you Sister Christianson, I'll try to make it. I really would like to do my duty in the church and set the proper example to my children. I am very desirous that my son should fill a good mission.
SISTER Burton: Thank you, Sister MacDonald; you'll never regret this decision. And some day I'm sure your son will be proud to say as President Grant does today, "My Mother was always a faithful Relief Society worker and I honor her for it.' We must not keep you longer but would like to leave with you our teacher's topic for this month.
SISTER MacDonald: Thank you, you've given me something to think of, sisters, that I feel will do me much good. I will think seriously of what you have said and will try and make time in my program for Relief Society. Let me give you a donation,
Sister Burton: Thank you, we appreciate that, but, remember we need your presence and your active support, as well. In that way we can be a blessing to each other. Goodbye, Sister MacDonald.
SISTER MacDonald: Goodbye Sisters and I'll try to be ready next week, Sister Christianson.
SISTERS: Goodbye.
The Visiting Teacher By Joan Young Hale
SISTER JOHNSON: (looking very sad) Ever since my husband's death, it doesn't seem there is a thing worth while for me to do. I just can't get reconciled to the fact that he has gone, and it seems there is nothing to live for.
(Mrs. Thorpe comes to call and makes conditions worse with her sympathy.)
Mrs. THORPE: You poor dear, I know just how you feel, and I don't blame you one bit for feeling as you do. If I had lost a loved one I don't believe I could carry on either. But I have been told that your church teaches something about hope for the dead.
SISTER JOHNSON: Yes it does, but at a time like this it doesn't help much, for my life is empty. I am all alone.
(A knock is heard at the door.)
Mrs. THORPE: Now you sit still dear, I will see who it is. You don't want company do you?
(As the door opens, Sister Johnson stands up and walks toward the door.)
SISTER JOHNSON: Oh, it's the Relief Society teachers. Won't you come in? Sister Evans and Sister Hale, I want you to know my dear friend Mrs. Thorpe.
(All sit.)
Mrs. THORPE: I am just a neighbor who came to sympathize with Mrs. Johnson in her dreadful sorrow.
Sister Evans: We sympathize with Sister Johnson too and have come to bring her a little cheer and something new to think about. We also bring a message. (Reads the card) Christ said, to gain eternal life, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thy self." "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thy self." Our lesson for this month is about the Good Samaritan. By helping your neighbors you can benefit and help yourself. (hands card to Sister Johnson.)
SISTER JOHNSON: (hurriedly reads card.) This card says, "Who is my neighbor?"
SISTER Hale: Anyone to whom you can give a helping hand, regardless of color or creed, is your neighbor, Sister Johnson. Surely you can't hope to better yourself, sitting all alone, and by shutting out all the beauty and sweetness that's around you. Especially this time of the year, when everything is taking on new life. We just called on Sister Jones who lives on this block. She told us how her children's play annoys you. She is very sorry, but her children must be kept happy. You would not want to stop their laughter and fun.
SISTER JOHNSON: No, indeed.
SISTER HALE: You remember the saying, "Smile and the world smiles with you. Weep and you weep alone."
SISTER Evans: Now that's an idea. (looking at Sister Hale) When you feel lonely, wouldn't you like to go over and help Sister Jones, who is overworked with her patching and darning? I know you would be well paid when you see how much it would help her. It's several months since your husband left, and you have done nothing to help yourself.
THE VISITING TEACHER
SISTER JOHNSON: What can I do?
Sister Hale: Sister Johnson, I met a dear old gentleman the other day who passed on a wonderful plan to those who are left alone, with nothing to do. He and his wife had been married fifty-five years, and for the last fifteen years they had been Temple workers. They were an ideal couple and had a large family who are accredit to them. The dear wife passed away after a short illness and for a time his grief was almost more than he could bear. A friend started to sympathize with him, but he said, "Of course I miss her but she wouldn't want me to mourn. I will be here for such a short time. I must be kept busy. There are so many looking to me to do their work that I haven't time to waste feeling sorry for myself.
SISTER Evans: Isn't that a wonderful way to feel? Have you ever thought of doing work for the dead?
SISTER Hale: Or the living too? Why not try forgetting yourself.
SISTER JOHNSON: (Glancing at the card and smiling) I am going to help Sister Jones. Tell me more how I can help my neighbor?
Mrs. THORPE: Why Mrs. Johnson, it is a long time since I saw you smile.
SISTER HALE: One sure way is to attend your Relief Society meetings. Associate with the kind of women who go there. We have wonderful teachers in each line and you couldn't go there without feeling the wonderful spirit and returning smile for smile. The first Tuesday is Theology, the second, Work and Business or Handicraft, the third, Literature, and the fourth, Social Service.
Mrs. THORPE: I am very interested in literature.
Sister Hale: Would you like to attend our Relief Society with Sister Johnson?
645
Mrs. THORPE: I would love to, but I thought it was for only members of your church.
Sister Hale: Anybody is welcome.
Sister Evans: We need visiting teachers too, people who are willing to work can always find a place that just suits them. So you see you can be a good Samaritan in more ways than one. I will leave this magazine. You can read the lesson. (teachers arise)
SISTER JOHNSON: Wait until I get my old cracked tea cup.
Mrs. THORPE: I thought you ladies never drank tea. (All laugh)
SISTER JOHNSON: We don't, but I keep my nickles and dimes in it for my Relief Society donation. (Hands to Sister Evans, who records it in book.)
Sister Hale: (shakes hands) I believe we have found some one who will be a good Samaritan to her neighbor. Goodbye, and God bless you both. (Sister Johnson goes to door with teachers.)
Mrs. THORPE: This magazine is open to a poem.
SISTER JOHNSON: Oh read it to me.
"They planted a seed in my heart that day And it grew from that tiny thing, Till it filled my heart with a new desire, Gave my soul a truer ring.
"My only thought was of work undone Timely tasks so hard to do. When the mind is tired, 'tis a tragic thing, It seems one never gets through.
"But they came to my door with a smile for me, A hand clasp of love and cheer, And I rested a bit as we talked that day, Till my mind began to clear.
"They brought me a message that lifted me up, Gave me courage to face that day,
646
Gave me hope and strength to go on again, But in a different way.
"Did they know they had given all that to me? Can they know the good they do, The souls they lift, the hearts they cheer,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The seeds they planted that grew?
"May they have God's blessings with them always As each day they do their part, May He ever be near them with those gifts, They gave to the other heart."
Her Husband's Religion By Luacine Clark Fox
(The scene is laid in the living-room of Mrs. Gilbert. There are signs of disorder about, and several suit-cases (one of which is open disclosing its contents of clothes, etc.) which tell us that Mrs. Gilbert is unpacking. On the left side of the stage are two chairs; at the right side of the table is another chair. Mrs. Gilbert pauses in her unpacking and crosses to the phone.)
Mrs. GILBERT: Wasatch 9403. Yes, please. (Aside) Now, let's see. I'll have to have my hair waved, and order my groceries. I suppose I'll need tomatoes, and lettuce. Perhaps some crackers... (into the telephone again) Hello? Oh, hello, Edith. This is Susan. Susan Gilbert. Oh, we got in yesterday.. Isn't it the truth? I'm so busy I don't know what to do.. I've had nothing but callers all morning, and the telephone has simply rung its head off... Tom? Oh, he's fine. (By this time the teachers, Sister Blair and Sister Stewart have reached the door, and knock just after she says "He's fine.') Wait just a minute, Edith. There's someone at the door. Just a minute. (She crosses to the door and opens it. For this door the backstage center entrance is preferable.)
Mrs. GILBERT: Yes?
SISTER BLAIR: Is this Mrs. Gilbert?
Mrs. GILBERT: Yes, I am she.
SISTER BLAIR: We are the Relief Society teachers, Mrs. Gilbert. This is Sister Stewart, and I am Sister Blair. If you aren't busy, we'd like to come in a moment and talk with you. We have a message for you, too.
Mrs. GILBERT: Well, I'm not at all interested. My husband is a Mormon, but I... well, I used to be an Episcopalian, but I'm not much of anything, now.
SISTER STEWART: Then, perhaps you have a message for us as well.
Mrs. GILBERT: Well, really, I'm not awfully interested.
SISTER BLAIR: I see you're just unpacking. Couldn't we help you? We'd love to, though we don't wish to annoy.
Mrs. GILBERT: Well, come in, then. (Reluctantly) You'll have to sit where you can. If you'll excuse me, I was on the telephone.
SISTER BLAIR: Thank you. (Sister Blair sits in the chair at the extreme left, and Sister Stewart occupies the one Left Center.)
Mrs. GILBERT: (At phone again) Edith, I've some callers. (Laughs) The Relief Society teachers! (Laughs again) Yes, I know. I've told them that, but they're going to try to convert me anyway... Yes, I'll call you back. Goodbye. (hangs up receiver.)
SISTER BLAIR: Isn't there something we can do? We'd love to help you.
HER HUSBAND'S RELIGION
Mrs. GILBERT: No, thank you. I'll just stop. The rest will do me good anyway. (She sits in the chair by the table.) Now, what is this message?
SISTER STEWART: Did you say that you don't belong to any religion?
Mrs. GILBERT: Yes, I believe I said that.
SISTER STEWART: That's a very interesting statement. You do have, I suppose, some philosophy by which you govern your home, teach your children, and so on?
Mrs. GILBERT: Oh, I think everyone does. Yes, I have one. Kindness to my fellow-men. I feel that as long as I live the best I know how, and don't hurt anyone, I've done my part. Oh, (gives a little laugh), I don't always live up to it, but I guess you'd call that my religion—Kindness.
Sister BLAIR: Do you know that so many people we meet have that same philosophy? It's a very beautiful one.
Mrs. GILBERT: Is it?
SISTER BLAIR: Yes.
Mrs. GILBERT: What you have just said interests me greatly. I had always understood that you Mormons felt your religion to be the only thing that was right. I have never heard such a statement before from any sect.
SISTER BLAIR: Well, we do think that our Church is right, Mrs. Gilbert, but we also know that there is truth in every religion. All that is beautiful and good comes from the Lord. All truth comes from Him. In fact, in your philosophy you have partially uttered His great Formula for Eternal Life.
Mrs. GILBERT: Have I? What is that? I'm afraid I'm not up on my scriptures. It's so easy to neglect such things.
SISTER STEWART: Let me read it to you. (Takes out Relief Society Magazine.) It's in Luke, tenth chapter, twenty-fifth to twenty-eighth verses, if you care to follow.
Mrs. GILBERT: No, you go ahead.
SISTER STEWART: (Reading) "And behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
"And He said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou?
"And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind: and thy neighbor as thyself."
SISTER BLAIR: You see, love thy neighbor as thyself sums up your philosophy, doesn't it?
Mrs. GILBERT: Yes.
SISTER BLAIR: Well, we believe there is more. The Lord says, "If you love me you will keep my commandments," and there you have our, well, we'll call it philosophy.
Mrs. GILBERT: You know... Well, I don't know why I'm telling you all this, but I was raised in a very strict Episcopalian family. Their do's and don'ts seemed very foolish to me. I was a healthy, ambitious youngster, and I wanted to have fun. I missed the Sunday frolics that my chums had. Even when I met my husband, much as I loved him, I wasn't interested in his religious views, I was prejudiced, I guess.
SISTER BLAIR: Well, that's a very normal reaction, Mrs. Gilbert. But, tell me, have you never felt the need of something greater? Have you never sensed a higher Power?
Mrs. GILBERT: I don't know why I'm letting you talk to me like this. You're stirring up in me something I thought was dead. You're so kind to me, and that's my philosophy. But
648
you seem to have something more. Kindness is only a by-product, so to speak.
SISTER STEWART: We do have something more. We have the absolute conviction that God lives now, today. And furthermore, that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints contains the fulness of His Gospel, and that it is the only Church. That's what we have.
Mrs. GILBERT: I wish I could say that. Truthfully, I do.
Sister BLAIR: You can, Mrs. Gilbert. Let me give you the reference that Joseph Smith read in the Bible. James, first chapter and fifth verse.
Mrs. GILBERT: James, first chapter and fifth verse.
SISTER BLAIR: (Nods.) Yes. It led him to go into the grove and kneel down and pray. He asked the Lord which church was the true one. The Lord answered his prayer, and He will answer yours.
Mrs. GILBERT: (Wipes tears from her eyes) Forgive me. I don't know what's the matter with me. You're so kind to me. You know, I've always made fun of the Mormons. And then you come and are so nice to me. It's rather like the story they used to tell us in Sunday School, you know, the Good Samaritan. You've been that to me.
SISTER STEWART: And that is our message. That is our topic for this month. (Gives her card.) The Good Samaritan.
Mrs. GILBERT: Wait just a moment. (Goes for purse, takes bill from it.) I'd like to give you just a little something for your organization. Here. (Gives bill to Sister Stewart.)
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
SISTER STEWART: Thank you. We can use this in our charity fund.
SISTER BLAIR: Come to our meeting next Tuesday, Mrs. Gilbert. We'd love to have you. Next Tuesday is our work and business day. You'll find the other meetings listed on the card we gave you. And the first Tuesday in every month is always our Theology lesson. We would be glad to stop by for you.
Mrs. GILBERT: I'll try. I just wish my husband could experience what I have this day.
SISTER STEWART: You can pass the message on.
Mrs. GILBERT: I'm sorry I was rude at first. I didn't live up to my philosophy of kindness, did I?
SISTER STEWART: You weren't rude. We just didn't understand each other, that's all. Goodbye. (Shakes hand).
Mrs. GILBERT: Goodbye (shakes hands with Sister Blair.) Come again, won't you?
SISTER BLAIR: I will. (They exit)
Mrs. GILBERT: (Goes to the door and looks out after them. She glances over at the table where the Bible is, then looks out after them again. She seems undecided, but slowly walks to the table, repeating "James, first chapter, fifth verse." She picks up the Bible, hesitates a moment longer, then slowly opens it and looks through till she finds the quotation. She is very much moved, and reads aloud from it in a low voice the following words, as the curtain slowly drops) "If any of you lack wisdom let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him."
(At door)
We See~a) Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
OCTOBER—The tired soul sweet solace finds in depth of autumn woods and silent canyon lanes.
MAUDE ADAMS shows a fine quality of heart in using her talents for others' benefit by accepting a professorship in dramatic art at Stephen's College, Columbia, Mo.
MADAM CHIANG KAI-SHEK of China in a stirring appeal to the Chinese women said, "Today we face the greatest crisis in our nation's history. Sometimes it is necessary to make a supreme sacrifice for the sake of national honor. Let the women of China be not afraid." Loh Tsi, leader of the Chinese Youth Movement answered the challenge and marched through North China villages at the head of a line of students warning the peasants of the pending disaster. She is called China's "Joan of Arc."
DIXIE GRAVES' appointment by her husband, Governor Graves of Alabama, to fill the vacancy in the U. S. Senate, gives two senatorships to women.
EDITH WHARTON, American novelist, whose last novel, The Age of Innocence, was a Pulitzer prize winner, died last summer at her beautiful home in France. She remembered in her will, besides many friends, her maids, butlers, chauffeurs, and all who served her.
ELISE B. ALDER and Ethel R. Smith, two gifted and beloved members of the General Board of Relief Society, died this late summer.
EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY, in her recent book Conversation At Midnight, has greatly disappointed many admirers, who have been charmed by her choice selection and arrangement of words in her lovely poems like The Wood Road, The Harp Weaver, Sonnets, and others.
HORTENSE McQUARRIE ODLUM of New York, has proffered to the Daughters of Pioneers of St. George, Utah (her native town) sufficient means for a memorial building to house relics and historical data.
JUDGE ANNA CROSS of New York, says "Crime is a woman's business and women should work for social service bureaus attached to magistrates courts." Judge Reva Beck Bosone, of Salt Lake City court, implied the same thought recently in a talk on "Human Relations" before a body of women legislators.
HELEN JACOBS and Alice Marble were the victors at the Forest Hills, New York tennis tournament this summer. This is the sixth successful defense of the Wightman cup by the American players.
GENEVIEVE SAVAGE ended her brilliant career as an aviatrix this summer hurtling against a mountain near Presidio, Texas. Nothing daunted by this and Amelia Earhart's tragic end, Jacqueline Cochran was an entrant in the Bendix trophy race from Los Angeles to Cleveland.
Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM?
FEAR Take Time For Reassurance By Lella Marler Hoggan
"I have no fear! What is in store for me Shall find me self-reliant, undismayed. God grant my only cowardice may be Afraid—to be afraid!" —Everard Jack Appleton.
Is the fear fiend shadowing your footsteps? Does some dread omen, some ghostly premonition lurk at every turn of your path? From childhood to old age we are menaced by irritating worries and haunting fears. The child is afraid of the dark, of the bogie man, of the big stick. Later on he fears examinations, ridicule, lack of money. In middle life no greater bugaboo looms ahead of men and women than the apprehension of failure. And when age begins to make his demands one is assailed by countless misgivings. What fear is affronting you on the pathway of life? Is it sickness, pain or poverty, or is it old age, dependence, death? The psychologists name security and achievement as the two greatest needs of childhood. Are not these also essential factors of happiness for maturity? What condition is more hopeless to the adult than insecurity and failure to achieve the dreams of youth? A person who feels the foundation of his world tottering under his feet has no appreciation of the blessings with which he is surrounded. And many times the sense of instability is due almost entirely to exaggerated fears rather than to actual alarming conditions.
FEAR is easier to induce than to cure. It is not only unreasonable but cruel
LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY
to use it as a punishment in childhood. One should seek to allay rather than to cultivate an emotion that brings only distress and discouragement. Small children sometimes suffer greatly because of groundless fears. It is unwise to ridicule or treat the situation lightly. Prudent parents manifest a sincere interest and sympathetic understanding of such conditions, and attempt to help the child to meet such experiences bravely and rise above them. Both young and old shrink from the unknown. Vague shapes half veiled in the shadows assume dangerous proportions when viewed with frightened eyes. Under the illusion of fear one views life from a false distorted angle. Fear affects the heart, the blood vessels and the nerves. It is injurious to physical and mental health. It blights human happiness and efficiency. It destroys peace of mind and shortens life. Both children and adults suffer untold misery through the years because of the fears that are forever menacing aspiration and accomplishment. The progress of the world is not promoted by persons who are afraid. When brought into the revealing light of truth and reason, fear shrinks into insignificance. Faith is the perfect antidote for fear. Courage and achievement are synonymous terms. Reassure the child against fear of the dark. Remind him that the blind are always in the dark and that God's love reaches out to his children in the night time as easily as in the day, to guard them from harm. Very early in his experience help him to find the comfort and security that comes from the Master's gentle watch care and enfolding love.
651
Help youth to meet life courageously, to face difficulties with calmness, trusting in Divinity for guidance and strength. Also, let us take time to reassure ourselves. Why should we carry a burden of fear all through life? Have we not faith enough to outwit such a weakling? Never worry in the dark. Remember, worry is a blood relative of fear and will get us into all sorts of trouble. Sleep knits up the raveled nerves. A warm bath, clean perfumed linen, a reverent attitude and the repetition of choice bits of poetry will induce sound wholesome slumber. A change of raiment changes the thought, and following a hobby will route even the most persistent goblin. Cultivate a sense of humor, funny books and fear are not on speaking terms. If you feel that you are cornered by the pawns of life, don't give up. Be still. Relax. Seek divine inspiration. Then calmly think it over and plan the best way out. It is said that the Twenty-third Psalm was Woodrow Wilson's daily text during the World War. It might possibly prove helpful to others in bringing their own frail craft to a safe anchorage. If a desperate decision is pending, wait until morning. One never can tell what the day will bring forth. Blessings beyond our best dreams may be winging their way to our very door. Sometimes when a great disaster or sorrow enters the home, we permit ourselves to say goodbye to life. Should we not have more confidence in our Maker than such an attitude manifests? Should we not give him an opportunity to finish the game we have begun together? Why close the book of life right in the middle of the story? We have no idea of all of the lovely adventures and beautiful pictures that the following
652
chapters will disclose. Should we not give ourselves a chance to finish what we have begun? 'What are a few years more or less if one plays the game?" asks Mary Shipman Andrews.
THERE are often pauses in the music of life, but the melody will go on again, if we will but listen with faith to catch the lovely strains.
"There will always be stars Through the window bars— If we look to see them shine." —Mabel W. Clapp.
As we approach the end of the trail of life why lose the vision of the beautiful? Why should we fear? Life is made up of beginnings and endings. No path that leads heavenward is eternally closed against us so long as we desire higher, better things. One door closes only to open another. According to Nancy Byrd Turner:
"Death is only an old door Set in a garden wall. On gentle hinges it gives at dusk, When the thrushes call.
"There is nothing to trouble any heart, Nothing to hurt at all. Death is only a quiet door In an old wall."
And when that door closes behind us, the portals of heaven will open before us to admit us into life more radiant and glorious, and our souls
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
shall go bravely singing on into new high adventures and more masterful achievements. The underlying thought of the Master's message is to bring comfort and cheer to the hearts of men. "Peace be unto you," "Be of good cheer," "Be not afraid," are some of the texts of his beautiful Gospel. His assurance has carried the children of men through famine and battle and sorrow and death. Those who accept his message find security, serenity, and courage to meet every emergency of life. For his promises are unto all men, even to the end of time. "Have I not commanded thee? Be strong and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed; for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest."—Joshua 1:9.
*Little Book of Brave Thoughts, Edited by Edwin Osgood Grover, Published by The Wise Book Co., New York. **The Three Things, by Mary R. Shipman Andrews, Publishers, Little, Brown and Co., Boston, Mass. **The same as ****Death Is A Door, by Nancy Byrd Turner, in the February issue, 1931, of Good Housekeeping, 57th Street at 8th Avenue, New York.
These quotations are used by special permission of the respective publishers, and through arrangements with them to quote the excerpts in this particular article.
TO MY MOTHER By Christie Lund Coles
I am a Mother now And oh, somehow, In looking back I understand my youthful lack, The things I meant to do Mother, for you.
That long, tortuous night Gave me the right To Motherhood. I understood In some degree All you had borne for me.
And now, each night and day, I pray I may fulfill my destiny As worthily As you upon this sphere, My Mother, dear.
God in Nature By Ray J. Davis
"Dear heart, perhaps you can not find God's hand Or see His face through some hour of despair. Do not be grieved; go seek the good, clean land, And you will find Him there,
"Wander awhile down some still wooded way; Stoop to the lichen, dig through the mossy sod. Stir in the leafmold—and the feathery spray Of a fern can show you God."
TO worship God is at times the most natural thing a man can do, for the urge of the spirit whispers to the Divinity within, that man must pay homage to the God in all nature. The greatest truths are often those that are felt, not those obtained by rationalism. Men trained in the fields of science often allow this latter type of facts to exclude the former from their minds, but tonight I wish to use both fields in my discussion. To me, Nature seems to say that the world is not a materialistic mechanism made by blind chance, but a spiritual plan well conceived and beautifully executed by a Master-mind who has made his work so perfect that only those who study carefully all sides are able to see the hand of the Maker in the design. It shall be my purpose to reveal to you an intelligent design in Nature, and if I am successful, will you be willing to grant that there must be an intelligent Designer behind it? Suppose we liken Nature to a piece of tapestry. For our purpose we shall choose one with five figures on it: a forest-clad mountain at one side with spire-like peaks; a lake nestled at its base near the center of the picture; a meadow with a sparkling river winding through it at the other side; a clump of snow-white lilies at the edge of the lake in the foreground; and fifth and finally a beautiful girl in the full bloom of youth standing at one side entranced by the scene. Remember this piece of tapestry must be made of strong cords for the warp, while the harmony of the design and color must be made by deftly weaving into it threads of various hues. Can you conceive of 'chance' alone making such a picture? Now in Nature we may liken her unchanging laws to the warp in a similar piece of tapestry, while the weft, forming the harmony of color in the design, we will liken to the work of the Master-artist as his intelligence plays upon the forces of Nature forming patterns before which mortals stand in reverence. We shall start this tapestry study by viewing the physical attributes of man himself. I, personally, am five feet nine inches tall, weigh about one hundred and seventy-five pounds, and possess a certain quality that we call intelligence. If I could stretch my five feet nine inches of height to millions of times and this figure multiplied by billions, I would faintly approach the diameter of some of the large bodies of the Universe. A similar statement would be true of my weight. Now in the other direction. If I should divide my five feet nine inches of height by millions multiplied by billions we should faintly approach the minuteness of some of the smaller things of Nature. It is true that man stands approximately on the median line between the largest and the smallest
654
things known, but it also seems equally true that his intelligence is greater than all this, because it is able to conceive it all.
ON a clear night when the sky is a blaze of brilliant diamonds against a deep blue curtain, the magnitude and grandeur of the Universe may well overawe us. Our own earth on which we live is indeed a minor speck in the immensity of organized matter. This small planet is accompanied by eight others which, with their moons, travel about the sun. The laws governing their rotations and revolutions are known to man, and can be measured with the greatest of accuracy. Our sun in turn, pulling its planets with it, revolves about another big sun, and this big sun in its turn revolves about another large attractive center. All of the stars visible to the naked eye are hardly a millionth part of the stars that make up the system to which our sun belongs. All of these bodies revolve about their respective centers with an accuracy that startles the mind of man. The diameter of such an organization would be the distance that light, traveling at the speed of 186,000 miles per second, would cover in some thirty millions of years. Far out beyond our own "Milky-way" system lies thousands of other such units each being controlled by, and helping to control still others. Surely one is impressed with the magnitude and accuracy of this great design when only partially understood. Now let us return in thought to man. He is made up of numerous organs, each of these of different types of tissues, and these in turn are composed of small living units called cells. These cells also are composed of many smaller units RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE which function together to make life possible within the cell. These facts, however, are but a start in our mental trip to the smallest things known. The units within the cell are composed of numerous particles that we call molecules, each of which is made up of few or many atoms. The atom, in turn, is made up of a nucleus of positive and negative electrons, around which at comparatively enormous distances revolve few or many particles of electricity at tremendous speeds. In all of this intricate mechanism we see a similar plan. The same intelligent design is found in an atom, a molecule, a cell, a man, or the Universe as a whole. Would 'chance' likely build all of these on the same pattern? This fact we shall call our first figure on our piece of tapestry. WHEN one studies the development of any animal, beginning with the fertilized egg and watching it through adult life, one is impressed with the accuracy shown. One fertilized starfish egg ordinarily produces one adult starfish, but if two such eggs are kept in contact they will fuse together, and each will produce one-half of a normal amimal. Or a person can take a developing embryo of this same animal, and by shaking the loosely united cells apart, cause each separate cell to develop into a normal starfish, so that there are four or eight instead of one. They have also taken these embryos and forced them through fine meshed screens, stirred the cells about, then by placing them in contact, a normal animal is still formed. The cells that began to form the arms may now be forming the disc and vice versa, but the important thing is that a normal body is formed. Ii an egg be placed between two panes of glass, the embryo will be as flat as paper, but if the glass be removed GOD IN NATURE soon enough, the animal will still develop normally. What is it that always causes these cells to form a body of the same design? ES, you may be thinking, but this is a low form of life. How about the higher forms? Well, let us discuss man. One fertilized egg normally produces one person, but occasionally an embryo gets shaken apart into two or three groups of cells. Each group will now develop into a normal person, or a pair of identical twins, or occasionally triplets are born. Five children from one egg, the Dionne quintuplets, were probably formed in this way. During the development of the body an arm bud must be formed at just the right stage. The arm grows with the skin, muscles, nerves, blood vessels and bones always in the right place. At just the right time an elbow must form, then a wrist, then the fingers and their joints. One sees very few abnormal arms compared to the number of normal ones. So, when you think of the whole body, with the brain, which is much more intricate, may I ask you what made the cells form this particular design so many times with such few mistakes? This power of living cells we shall call our second figure on our tapestry. Now let us turn to the mind of man. It develops and grows with use. Non-living things wear out when used, but here is something which, if placed in a good body and used properly, it continues to improve until death. Even the living body may in time wear out, but not the mind if it is used prudently. This mind grows, conceives of love, beauty and spirituality, and reaches upward to the higher things of life as a. Flower reaches for the sun. True, the animal part of man pulls 655 him back, but behind the scenes of everyone's life is found this desire for the best. Aren't you willing to admit that there may be something more powerful than man's own intelligence when his intelligence is attracted toward this higher force? This, I shall call my third figure on our tapestry. FOLLOWING another line of reasoning, one is amazed at the accuracy of the happenings of Nature. Of the countless numbers of snow flakes that fall, we have never found two exactly alike, and yet the same general pattern, a center with six rays running out from it, is found in every one. A man in New England spent the major part of his life photographing snow flakes, and of the thousands of pictures taken, no two were identical in detail, but the same pattern was present in all. Another example of the accuracy of Nature's laws may be given. Recently several groups of scientists went to the southern hemisphere to study a total eclipse of the sun. For years they planned this venture. Some went to the mainland of South America, some to the islands of the sea, and some used ships placed at the most favorable location. The amazing thing was that each group knew to the second when the eclipse would begin at their point. Think of the speed of the sun flying through space, think of the earth revolving about the sun at its high velocity, then the moon, too, traveling about the earth. Now years in advance man told the exact spot on the earth and the exact time that the moon would pass directly between the sun and the earth and cast its shadow on a small part of our planet. Do these examples impress you with the superhuman exactness in Nature's functioning? This infinite 656 accuracy will be our fourth figure on our piece of art. OUR study of law has been from the simple to the complex. From times before history, man knew of lightning, but it was a long time before he discovered electricity, and it was Benjamin Franklin that demonstrated that the two were the same. We learned how to make electricity, use it for light, then in a motor, and finally for radio. It has been only the last few years that we really knew what electricity was, and we are now in the process of learning that all matter is nothing but electricity. We know of what the XRays, made by electricity, are composed, but what is the significance of the new Cosmic Rays just discovered? They are the most powerful thing known, shooting clear through fourteen feet of lead and still manifest on the other side. Are we yet likely to find a more powerful force? No one in his right mind would dare say "no" after studying the past, and if science uses this history as a basis, it could with good reason answer, "in all probability we will." My contention is that a Divine Power, more important than all else, is at work in the Universe. My reasons for saying this are: first, the fundamental design on which the Universe and all in it are built speaks of an Intelligent Creator. Second, living cells possess a power that is at present superhuman when they form tissues and bodies. Third, the exactness of Nature could hardly be brought about by 'chance'. Fourth, the intelligence possessed by Man himself indicates that such a force is present in the Universe. Fifth, and finally, man instinctively feels at times that God is present. Reason often plays little part in this conviction of God's existence. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Reason is cold and indifferent and often stifles such emotions. But leave the highways of life and the bustle of men, leave your dislikes and your worries behind, leave all that connects you to your present life, and go into the silence and solitude of the forest or mountain and stand alone with Nature and the Great Spirit. "Then will come to you mystic and mighty visitors, magic artists to paint upon the canvas of your mind ultimate truths. Then will you behold a vision of the thoughts and deeds by which men come closer to the everlasting altars." Then will be whispered into your heart, softly as the falling of snow at eventide, peace and an assurance of Divinity. O illustrate this last point in closing, a few years ago, in company with six other men, we took a two week's pack trip into the central part of Idaho. After a week's travel we came near the middle fork of the Salmon River. Mr. Scribner, the forest supervisor who was a member of our group, told us that up to that time only two parties had ever been known to traverse the entire forty mile box canyon of the river below us. This stream is often spoken of as the "River-of-no-return". We made camp for the night, and soon after daylight the next morning, we started on foot down a steep and rough trail to the bottom of the canyon. Three of us reached the river, and while the other two fished, I spent the day exploring downstream. Upon rounding a sharp point of rocks the scene before my eyes thrilled me. As far as I could follow the river it was the same mad rushing stream, full of rapids, whirlpools, and boulders, with occasional still pools where the water halted expectantly before rushing headlong into the next maelstrom. The can- GOD IN NATURE yon walls rose in sheer majesty of solid rock hundreds of feet, only to be broken and rise again, and yet a third time before it looked safe for a novice to try to climb. The colors were not brilliant, but one could see shades of brown gradually being replaced by those of pink and red, with occasional spots of black or green, while the dull grey of granite formed a background on which the tapestry of other colors was woven. In sharp contrast to the rocks, the vegetation stood out in brilliant hues. The fir, spruce, and lodgepole pine at the higher and less precipitous elevations appeared as huge black patches, while hanging precariously onto the ledges of the lower levels, the majestic yellow pine made one almost fear for their safety. Lichens of vivid hues covered patches of perpendicular rocks where other plants could not get a foothold. Chokecherries, service berries and other shrubs filled in much of the space between the trees, while lillies-ofthe-valley, scarlet gilia, bluebells, and giant asters made a gorgeous color scheme before my eyes. At my feet and near a clear, beautiful spring, from which I drank, stood a magnificent bed of columbine, and shyly peeping from under the moss along its edge were a number of purple violets, their color all the more vivid by contrast to the blazing, large, orange blossoms of the mimulus that grew in the water. The pebbles, over which the water gaily babbled, were covered with a green and brown 657 growth of algae. In fact, as I surveyed the scene, I became aware that all possible space was being used to. Its fullest extent by plant growth. Nor were the animals absent. A crayfish and its young were creeping about in the spring, water beetles dived and played in the water, while a green worm slowly crawled from his hiding under a leaf and disappeared under the bank. A trout nearby in the river occasionally leaped into the air to get an insect, and splashed back into the water. A blue-jay and a grey squirrel above in the magnificent yellow pine alternately scolded each other and me for being intruded upon. A deer shyly came out of the brush down stream and began drinking from the river, while overhead soared an eagle surveying all below. As I turned my eyes from the things about me and looked down the canyon, the purple haze formed a filmy curtain that my eyes could not penetrate. I looked upward into the blue of sky with its few fleecy clouds floating lazily about, and_ rapidly sinking in the west was the sun, shedding its life-giving rays on all below. I lay and dreamed of what was beyond the purple haze and the vivid blue, what made the flowers grow and bloom, why the river had cut sucha gorgeous canyon, what gave me the intelligence to appreciate nature, and there welled up within my heart a certainty that God was present in Nature and that all was well with the world. Importance of Budgeting By Loreen Davis called a council in the Heavens to formulate a plan for governing this universe, from beginning to end. We acknowledge the importance of this plan. We also acknowledge the importance of city, state and nation forming a plan of operation, which always includes a budget. No successful business is in existence today that does not have a similar plan and budget to govern its operation. Buyers for large firms are selected for their skill in ascertaining in advance how much or how many of each article will be required, and the best time and place to purchase it. How then can a home be conducted in a well ordered, efficient manner without first planning and budgeting both the time and money required? If the average business were run in the same haphazard manner as most homes are, early bankruptcy would be the natural result. We are told it is easier to earn money than to spend it wisely. Realizing the importance of training to increase the earning power, how much more important then is training for its spending. Women spend most of the money men earn—should we not do it wisely? If each dollar is placed in its allotted niche there is none left for impulsive buying of things that may strike the fancy at the moment but have little value to us later. After we have experienced the fascination of wise spending we pride ourselves on our ability to make ends meet. The feeling of B vateva the world was, God security that comes with the knowledge that there is plenty for all the necessities of life, increases our serenity. Keeping track of how much is being spent for each kind of food enables us to supply a balanced diet for our families, which in itself spells health and happiness. It is my duty as a housewife to know what a balanced diet is and to see that my family gets it. The only way I can do this is to plan in advance to buy certain articles of food. I must also know their cost in order to make my cash supply cover them—what is this but budgeting? If I do not know how to budget, I should be taught. ~ "The proof of the pudding is in the eating." I can point out to you families in our church who are operating on a budget, paying tithing, keeping well fed, well dressed, happy because free from debt and with money in the bank; while others with larger incomes are hopelessly in debt, with little to show for their earnings and nothing left for tithing. What is the reason? In the first instance careful planning of expenditures with all leaks that drain the pocketbook stopped and in the second buying whatever is wanted at the moment with nothing left for more important articles needed later. If you are convinced you and I need a budget, how much more important that those who require our assistance, in many instances because of unwise spending, should also use one. Our Responsibility By Eva K. Thomas IT IS the responsibility of every I citizen to remove or prevent as far as possible evil, vice, sickness, or sorrow from community life, and to provide a proper standard of living and education, that the youth of the land and generations to follow may be strong and brave, and true. Sir Christopher Wren rebuilt London after the great fire of 1666. The legend above his tomb in St. Paul's Cathedral reads—'Tfi you would see his monument look around you." Such a legend may be yours if a keen sense of citizenship and community welfare makes you public spirited. In the family are nourished many of the finest virtues upon which orderly community life depends. How deep and important are the ideals of fatherhood, motherhood, childhood. Loyalty and unselfishness develop wherever there is wholesome family life. The family represents the first little group where the young and the old, the clever and the dull, the strong and the weak learn to live together, to work together in harmony and affection. Here the virtues of good citizenship are discovered such as the knowledge that the act of one person may hurt others; that over-work, whether on the part of parents or children, is harmful, that selfishness produces evil results, that the opinion of others should be listened to and studied. It is through the family that women who first loved only their own little children have grown to care for the welfare of all little children. That women who have worked and sacrificed for their own children have learned to be interested in the struggles of all women to rear their children properly; and that men with families of their own to work for have understood and respected the struggles of other men to maintain proper homes. The family also furnishes a motive for men and women to work hard and live honorable lives. There are very few people who can or who desire to live and to work for themselves alone. The oldest form of government is that of the home with the father of the family at its head. It should be and usually is the best of all for it is founded upon love. The community is in many respects simply an enlarged family. Suffrage, economic conditions, educational privileges have decidedly altered and broadened the perspective of men and women. The home, that institution out of which has grown the deepest and longest experience of the race, is no longer an isolated and independent estate, even in pioneer lands, because of modern communication and invention, therefore one must have relation to and interest in community life. To obtain the greatest freedom and happiness in the art of living, there must be cooperation. Good citizenship is the key to this goal. Today we belong to a family group, to a city or township, to a state anda nation. The city or township has most to do with our health and education, the state makes the laws for our security and the nation safeguards our liberties and regu- 660 - lates our larger activities. In consideration of these facts, a certain degree of political education is necessary to maintain rule by the people and the ballot or our vote is the power of control. The purpose of government is to guarantee our rights. In a country like ours, we make our own laws as is done in the New England town meeting, or we elect others to make laws for us as is done in all the State legislatures and in the National Congress.. Now if the government is for the individual and we are to help govern, we owe it to ourselves and to our fellow citizens to inform ourselves as much as possible in regard to our Government. Every right implies a duty. If we have a right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, it is our sacred duty to help guarantee the same right to others.; Every American born, male or female, 21 years of age, if registered is a qualified elector or voter. An alien or foreign born is made a citizen of these United States and given the right to vote in the following manner: After residing here at least two years, he goes before a court of law and declares his intention of becoming an American citizen. Not less than two years nor more than seven years afterward, he applies to the court for his naturalization papers and after ninety days have elapsed he appears before the judge and his application is heard. If the judge is satisfied that the applicant should become a citizen he thereupon issues a certificate of naturalization. No foreigner can become a citizen until he has resided here at least five years. Every voter is responsible in part RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for the kind of government under which he lives. It is his duty to see that good men are chosen to make the laws and other good men to enforce the laws when made.: No one who shirks the responsibility of voting has any right to complain if the laws do not suit him or if officers prove faithless. This government is surely for the people. It will be by the people only when all voters do their full duty at the polls. We should all have a knowledge of the laws and ordinances of our town, county, state, and nation, sufficient at least for our individual conduct and the conduct of our own affairs. As citizens of these United States, it is our duty to see that we are registered so that we may help to elect to office men of whom we are confident, men and women who are interested in the advancement and welfare of community, state, and nation, rather than their own advancement and personal gain. If such men are elected to office then we can be sure that the health, education, beautification, recreation, and protection of every community will be properly supervised. The Church is indeed a source of spiritual aid for right living. Our church goes hand in hand with law and order, advancement both spiritually and morally, for according to our 13th article of faith, "We believe in being subject to kings and presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law." To be aware of community opportunities and help to provide them for the betterment of family life zs the privilege and becomes the responsibility of every citizen. The citizen who assumes this responsibility can 'Look around and behold his monument.' "I believe in the United States of OUR RESPONSIBILITY America as a government of the people, by the people, for the people, whose just powers are derived from the consent of the governed, a democracy in a republic, a sovereign nation of many sovereign states, a perfect union one and inseparable, established upon those principles of 661 freedom, equality, justice and humanity, for which American Patriots sacrificed their lives and fortunes. "I therefore believe it is my duty to my country to love it, and support its constitution, to-obey its laws, to respect its flag, and to defend it against all enemies." IN BRIGHTON By Isabelle B. McKenzie Have you ever been in Brighton When the morn was rosy red? The leaves with dew were sparkling The birds sang overhead; Each cloud was bathed in crimson To greet the newborn day As the sun came up in splendor To chase them all away. Have you ever been in Brighton When the sun beat in the glade? You took your book and blanket To sneak off to the shade— Your book was soon neglected There was so much to view, The mountains high—the squirrels—the birds And Brighton's sky of blue. Have you ever been in Brighton As the sun sank in the west? And gazed from a friendly porch As you sat down to rest; A calm came stealing o'er you With the murmur of the pine— Oh, it's nice to be in Brighton At any sort of time. Notes to Theological Department IN addition to the citations quoted in Theology Lesson III, the following passage well illustrates the proper attitude in Relief Society work: "Then said he also to him that bade him, When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbors; lest they also bid thee again, and a recompense be made thee, "But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind. "And thou shalt be blessed; for they cannot recompense thee, for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just."—-Luke 14:12, 13, 14. Work and Business Department SINCE bread forms a large and important part of the diet of low-income families, and children of school age who carry their lunches, some suggestions might be helpful to the woman who makes her own or buys it at the corner grocery. The keeping qualities depend on various things such as the ingredients, the weight or size of loaf, length of time of fermentation or baking. A medium sized loaf baked a longer time at a medium temperature will keep much better and be less likely to mold than a larger one baked a shorter time at a higher temperature. Sliced bakery bread is convenient, but it dries and molds quicker than the solid loaf, due to more exposed surfaces to moisture and contaminated air. For this and other sanitary reasons it should be handled as little as possible, and the Field lightly wrapped after it has thoroughly cooled. Bread well baked, kept in a clean, well aired receptacle in a cool place, will keep from three to eight days and be fresh and palatable. Moisture and heat together with too close and heavy wrapping causes much of the mold, off flavor and odor found in bread. Literary Department HE subject of just what actually were the facts in the life of Sacagawea, is a matter of debate. There are many conflicting opinions held in reference to whether or not Sacagawea died a young woman, as Mrs. Hueston in The Star of the West portrays, or whether she lived to be an old woman and returned to the Shoshone tribe. This will always remain a matter of doubt. The opinions of one seem to be as well founded as another. We are giving an extract from Mrs. Hueston's letter to the writer of our literary lessons, as we feel that it states her position as fairly as it can be given, and she seems to be justified in the view which she takes of the matter. After all, the important factor is, that Sacagawea was a real heroine, and that she rendered magnificent service in the expedition which meant so much to the United States. As women we honor her for what she was—a noble soul. "I feel it is only fair to call attention to the fact that up until very recently, it has been argued, rather brilliantly, that Sacagawea returned to her own tribe; never went to St. Louis; did not send her children down to Clark and lived to a ripe old age and died on the reservation. Dr. Grace Hebard wrote a masterful NOTES TO THE FIELD book on that premise. But she gathered her material before the present-day sources were available. Now in the St. Louis historical society, they have the actual records where Clark paid for the schooling of the children. They have a copy of the letter Clark wrote to Charbonneau; they have the actual diary of Luttig, the clerk at Fort Manuel where she died; as well as the words of the English traveler, Breckenridge, who was on the boat with her on that long and laborious trip up the river. And every date, and every word of description, tallies with other records. I examined all records with minute attention and was obliged to accept this version. And I am happy to say that almost without exception, the American historians and Historical Departments of the different states are in complete agreement with me." 663 Social Service Department EVERY effort should be made by the class leaders and members to increase the attendance at the Social Service sessions. Check with the secretary to make sure that your department is not behind any other. Aim to have more members at each session this year than at any time last year. Be pace setters, not only in the matter of attendance but in active participation in the class work and in group betterment. The lessons in this department are of the greatest importance to the older as well as the younger members because they are concerned with practical problems of community life. They aim to give encouragement to all the good in your community and to help in overcoming those features which are opposed to the highest ideals of a happy progressive life. MRS. PEARL LEMON AND HER NINE DAUGHTERS Notes from the Field By Julia A, F, Lund—General Secretary CAKE AT REXBURG STAKE ANNUAL CELEBRATION Rexburg Stake. THE fact that rough weather and almost impassible roads cannot daunt the courage and enthusiasm of Relief Society women was borne out on Tuesday, March 16th, when nearly six hundred women gathered in the Fourth Ward Chapel at Rexburg to do honor to the anniversary of the founding of Relief Society. The happy event was under the direction of the Stake Board, with President, M. Gay Grover presiding. The hall was tastefully decorated and the Relief Society colors predominated. The first hour of the entertainment offered a musical and literary program, notable in which was an original poem by Sophie Saurey, honoring the memory of the past Relief Society Presidents of the Rexburg Stake. This was followed by the presentation of the pageant "Mothers of Men." The celebration concluded with a banquet, where a special feature was the birthday cake carrying ninety-five silver candles. It was a day of joy and renewed inspiration for Relief Society work. Bear River Stake. THE great interest that Relief Society women take in Temple work was borne out in the Bear River Stake when an excursion to the Logan Temple was sponsored by the Stake organization. A group of "Singing Mothers" from the Garland Ward furnished the singing for the morning meeting in the Temple, and this proved to be of great interest in bringing in a number of young mothers. A large and enthusiastic group participated and added much to the spirit of temple work. This enterprising Stake also held a Teachers' Convention, at which time a very delightful pageant called "Women of the Ages" was presented. This was written by Maude O. Cook, and paid a beautiful tribute to the work and importance of women in the Gospel plan. A delightful anniversary celebration was held on March 17th, and due honor paid to the annual day. A plan to repeat the district conferences which proved so profitable the previous year, is under way. All of the Wards join in supporting the NOTES FROM THE FIELD Stake in its educational and Church Security Program. Panguitch Stake. ANOTHER Stake gives evidence of the great interest in Temple work which is felt by the Relief Society organization. The Panguitch Stake has held a number of excursions during the past season, and each time there is an increased attendance. The Society chartered a bus and made it possible for anyone who wished to make the trip at a very nominal cost. While the distance to be covered is more than 120 miles to reach the temple, it has been a very rare opportunity for many of the brethren and sisters who have not had the privilege of having their temple work completed. The last excursion covered three days, but the interest held throughout and a fine spirit of faith and hope in the Gospel work was in evidence. Zion Park Stake. "THE office is in receipt of many delightful accounts of the anniversary celebration, and Zion Park is outstanding among these. Every Ward in the Stake participated in the fine celebration, which included a program of literary and dramatic effort, music and songs. An interesting feature of the occasion was that all the plays were taken from the Re- 665 lief Society Magazine. Between three hundred and four hundred peo- 'ple participated in the happy event. Granite Stake. ONE of the very beautiful events closing the regular year of Relief Society work took place in the Granite Stake Tabernacle under the direction of the Relief Society Stake Presidency and Board. A pageant "The House of Israel" was splendidly presented. The Stake Board and each of the Wards had a special division. "Israel's Heavenly Origin," was the first episode presented by the Stake Board; "Israel's Division and Captivity,' Hawthorne Ward; "Preparation of America for Israel," Lincoln Ward; "Israel's Earthly Origin," Richards Ward; "Israel's Rise to Power," Nibley Park Ward; "The Gathering of Israel Begins," Forest Dale Ward. The Grand Finale included the rising of the audience in singing the Doxology. The music was of very high order, the dramatic effects most artistic and the entire program portrayed, with striking power, the great history of the House of Israel and their expression through the Scriptures. It was a most inspirational demonstration of the work of the Teachers' Topic, Theology and Scripture Reading project. The Stake and each Ward should be congratulated upon the excellence of their performance. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES ROBISON -. AMY BROWN aT ENY. - - KATE M. BARKER - -. JULIA A. F. LUND. - Jennie B. Knight Emma A Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Nettie D. Bradford Empey Ida P, Beal Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson: - - President First Counselor Second Counselor " General Secretary and Treasurer Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B, Barker Nellie O. Parker RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - Mary Connelly Kimball Manager - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - - - Amy Brown Lyman VoL. XXIV OCTOBER, 1937 No. 10 Editorial Tasks Worth the Doing T is a joy to see how many places of worship are now made attractive both outside and inside. There is a spirit present when buildings and grounds are well kept that all feel. It has often been remarked that the Temple Block preaches the Gospel because it is so beautiful. Tourists often say "What a wonderful spirit there is-on this Block." "THE efforts being put forth by the Church will doubtless result in every meeting house being made attractive, a suitable place for worship. We notice too how much pride people are taking in making the grounds surrounding their homes attractive. It need cost very little. A package of petunia, or zinnia, or marigold seed, etc., may bring joy throughout the summer. The trees, shrubs, and flowers that are exchanged by friends or bought at small cost not only give satisfaction and pleasure to those who live in the home but to every passerby. Beauty does something to us, so each householder who makes his home a place of beauty confers a benefit on all who have eyes to see it. THE Relief Society will do well to emphasize the importance of making every home clean and attractive, the surroundings well kept and beautiful. Making a home is no small task. It requires many gifts and graces. If each woman would take pride in doing the many household tasks skillfully, she would find joy in the homely duties, for there is always satisfaction in a thing well done. As an organization we shall find joy in doing our part to further the Beautification Project of the Church. We shall also find deep satisfaction this season in training the women in our midst to EDITORIAL make an art of housekeeping, so that their places of abode will manifest orderliness and beauty. Teaching how to make good bread will be another activity that the Relief Society will engage in 667 this year. In the organization meetings it should be pointed out what constitutes good _ bread. (There are some people who think they make very good bread when in reality it is very poor.) Overcoming OVERCOMING is one of the most strengthening tonics man knows. The Book of Mormon tells us that "It must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so, righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad. Wherefore, all things must needs be a compound in one; wherefore, if it should be one body it must needs remain as dead, having no life neither death, nor corruption nor incorruption, happiness nor misery, neither sense nor insensibility." It is easy to drift down stream. The weak ever choose the easy way. The strong let no obstacle overcome them. Many inventors have gone without even the necessities of life that they might continue experimenting until the desired thing was found out, until the longed-for truth was demonstrated. Milton, during months of active pain, after sight of one eye and then of the other was lost, with marvelous strength of purpose went on with his writing, enriching the world with priceless gems. Count Zichy, great lover of music, by the bursting of a gun, lost his right arm. Piano artistry had - been his goal. The seemingly insurmountable obstacle of the loss of one arm did not daunt him. He became so expert that he gave a higher standard of left hand technique than had ever before been known. This has bettered all piano work. Robert Louis Stevenson, dying 'of tuberculosis, gave by example and exhortation, lessons in cheerfulness that are unforgetable. So often we seek easy trails, not realizing that endurance comes only through overcoming hindrances. All too often our upward climb is impeded by the valueless things we carry. Mountains of difficulty ever confront the one who would achieve. Footsore, weary, thirsty, the intrepid spirit presses on. When at last the summit is reached, those met at the top are of the best. "This companionship, however, is but one of the joys that comes to the soul of man when for the first time he looks out upon the vast sea of granite waves; as he looks down on the silver-gold backs of the clouds, the world of man's making lost to all vision; when he feels in his veins the exhilaration of within, the answer to the call of victory; when he feels thrilling the years, the call to mastery not alone of things, but of self." 668 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Ethel Reynolds Smith "And it shall come to pass that those who die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them." WE believe the death angel was a welcome messenger to Sister Ethel Reynolds Smith, for it released her from long suffering. Though she only tabernacled in the flesh tor forty-seven years, she lived long when judged by her accomplishments and her good deeds. She was the devoted wife of one of earth's noble men whom she loved and honored. She appreciated his worth and his loving care of her and their family. She mothered her husband's two little girls so successfully that people have said of her, "There never was a better stepmother." She gave birth to nine children and adopted one. As wife and mother she achieved her greatest success, After working on the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society Board, she served efficiently and well as a member of the General Board for fifteen years. She was ever ready to help and to do all in her power, and she often carried more than her share of the load. She was refined and had an innate love of the beautiful. Her home and her apparel show this artistic bent. May her children prove worthy of their heritage. May they live the Gospel of Christ in their daily lives so that their parents will find joy in their accomplishments. I~ NEEDLES By Ida Rees A needle is a common thing, One of many Bits of steel with point and eye Bought with a penny; My needle and I have been busy today Stitching away; Not important, a point of steel, Yet pioneer women hunted all day If one did stray; And one that stubbornly pointed north Led sailors forth Who found a world had been hidden away Until that day. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Lesson 4 THE USE OF PARABLES IN CHRIST'S TEACHING Helpful References: Matthew 13:3-8; 21:33-34; 13: 24-30, 31-33, 47-50; 22:1-14; 25:1- 13; 20:1-16; 25:14-30; 13:44-46; 18:21-35. Mark 4:26-29. Luke 13:6-9; 14:16-24; 19:11-27; 18:9-14; 11:5-10; 18:1-8; 10:25-27; 15:4-7, 8-10, 11-32; 12:16-21; 16: 19-31; 16:1-9. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, Chapter 19. See also index under "Parables of Christ." Trench, Notes on the Parables of our Lord. Goebel, The Parables of Jesus. Bruce, The Parabolic Teaching of Christ. Buttrick, The Parables of Jesus. 1. Parable Defined. One who reads the Gospels cannot help but be impressed with the wealth of parabolic teaching contained in them. "And without a parable he spoke not to them." (Mark 4:34; see Matthew 13:34.) At the outset it will be helpful for us to inquire into the nature of the parable before we discuss the use made of it by the Savior. The word "parable" is one of about 130,000 words in the English language derived directly or indirectly from the ancient Greek. Goebel, in his book, The Parables of Jesus, gives, with some reservations, the following definition of a parable: "A narrative moving within the sphere of physical or human life, not professing to communicate an event which really took place, but expressly imagined for the purpose of representing in pictorial figure a truth belonging to the sphere of religion, and therefore referring to the relation of man or mankind to God." The parable differs from the fable in that it always borrows its matter from the sphere of actual life, whereas the latter moves in the realm of fantasy. The use of parables in the Bible is confined not to the New Testament alone; the Old Testament contains them. The one told by Nathan to David about the rich man and the poor man is notable. (2 Samuel 12:1-4.) 2. An Element of Mercy Shown in Parabolic Mode of Instruction. Though the use of parables was common in the days of our Lord, it is instructive to note that His disciples once came to Him and said, "Why dost thou speak to them in parables?" The implication would seem to be that His parables were only understood after considerable thought and reflection. In answer the Savior said, '"To you it is given to know the mysteries of the Kingdom of heaven; but to them it is not given. For whoever has, to him will be given, and he shall have abundance; but whoever has not, even what he has shall be taken from him, Therefore I speak to them in parables; because seeing they see not, and hearing they hear not, nor understand." (See Matthew 13:10-15.) The late Elder James E. Talmage in his Jesus the Christ, pertinently remarks, "There is plainly shown an element of mercy 670 in the parabolic mode of instruction adopted by our Lord under the conditions prevailing at the time. Had He always taught in explicit declaration, such as required no interpretation, many among His hearers would have come under condemnation, inasmuch as they were too weak infaith and unprepared in heart to break the bonds of traditionalism and prejudice engendered by sin, so as to accept and obey the saving word. Their inability to comprehend the requirements of the gospel would in righteous measure give Mercy some claim upon them, while had they rejected the truth with full understanding, stern Justice would surely demand their condemnation." 3. The Nature and Development of the Kingdom of God. For the sake of convenience we can, following Goebel, classify the parables into two general groups. Each of these can be divided into sub-groups. It is obviously impossible to adequately deal with all the parables in one short lesson. For that reason we shall consider but a few in each of the two general groups. The first of these groups has to do with the parables that contain teaching respecting the nature and development of the kingdom of God. One of the most interesting parables in it is the Parable of the Sower. (Matthew 13:3-8.) Possibly a better name of it would be the Parable of the Four Types of Soils. This parable deals essentially "with the conditions under which the Kingdom of God is founded. In it is portrayed the fact that the success of preaching is mainly dependent on the hearers. How true this observation is can be testified to by practically all missionaries of this dispensation. The Savior compares the hearers of the word to different kinds of soil upon which a sower casts seed. The Sower may be compared RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to an authorized servant of God and the seed to his message. The effect of the seed depends upon the type of soil it falls upon. If it falls upon hard soil, "by the wayside," it is quickly snatched up and is of no effect. If sowed on "stony places" or "among thorns" it fares somewhat better for a time, but eventually withers away or is choked by thorns. The seed falling on good ground, however, brings forth good fruit, "some an hundred-fold, some sixtyfold, some thirty-fold." So likewise is the effect of preaching upon human hearts. Whether the glad news of the Gospel takes effect or not depends mainly upon the type of spiritual soil it falls upon. If the soil has been hardened by sin and the conscience trodden under foot, the seed has but little chance to take root. If the soil is shallow and superficial, the seed may take root; but it soon withers away. Some soil may be good, and the seed grows; but the latter is soon choked out by the thorns of a poor environment. The "good ground" represents those individuals who are spiritually strong, who have a broken heart and a contrite spirit, who have the courage of their convictions, and who are undaunted by persecution. These bring forth much fruit, and the Church and Kingdom of God are greatly built up by them. Of such were the early pioneers of Utah. 4. The Right Attitude of Members of the Kingdom. The second group of parables deals with the attitude that members of the Kingdom ought to display toward God and the World. There are two very short but excellent parables that teach in a profound manner the attitude that one ought to have toward God. They are The Hidden Treasure (Matthew 13:44) and The Costly Pearl (Matthew 13:45-46). In these parables LESSON DEPARTMENT the "Kingdom of Heaven'"' is likened unto a "treasure hid in a field', and unto a "pearl of great price", respectively. In the first case a certain man "goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field." In the second a merchant man, "seeking goodly pearls... Found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it." The things of God are worth acquiring if they require the sacrifice of everything we have in the world to obtain them. These parables call to mind an Abraham willing to sacrifice an only son, or a Joseph Smith willing to lay down his life, for the kingdom of God. Such men indeed receive the joy in God that sacrifices everything for the highest good. The Parable of the Good Samaritan, one of the noblest of all parables, is a splendid example of teaching concerning the right attitude of members of the kingdom toward man. It is not necessary to recount the details of it, because it is so well known. The parable answers the question, "Who is my neighbor?" The context ought to make plain that this question, put by a lawyer to the Christ, was merely an attempt to hide his sense of shame at the unexpected turn which the conversation had previously taken. So all of us, professing to understand the Gospel, ought to be ashamed if we do not understand who our neighbor is. As the Savior unfolds the story of the wounded man and the Samaritan, certain expressions stand out. Note, "he had compassion on him", "bound up his wounds", "takes care of him', "shewed mercy on him", etc. These are all traits of our "neighbor." We ought to remember in this connection the statement of 671 King Benjamin in the Book of Mormon. "Behold, I say unto you that because I said unto you that I had spent my days in your service, I do not desire to boast, for I have only been in the service of God. And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God." (Mosiah 2: 16-17) Questions 1. In what sense was the Savior merciful by teaching in parables? 2. What doctrines of the Gospel can you think of that are taught in the parables? Specify the parables and give references. 3. What parables do you like best? Why? Problems Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit. 1. Analyze carefully the parables of The Rich Man (Luke 16:19-31) and The Unjust Steward (Luke 16: 1-9). 2. Determine the number of parables in the. Doctrine and Covenants. (See index and concordance). Report on the teaching contained in them. 3. From a consideration of history show that the Gospel was taken from the Jews and given to others. What parables seem to have foreshadowed this? 4, Determine which of the Apostles of this generation has written parables or fables. If possible read a parable or a fable to the class. 672 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Teacher's Topic Lesson 4 THE COURAGE OF JESUS Yearly Aim—"That we may see more clearly the character of Jesus and become so enraptured with him that we will strive to transform ourselves more and more into his image." HAVE not I commanded thee, be strong and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed: for the Lord thy God is with thee whither soever thou goest." Joshua 1:9. "Any one can get up courage for an hour. But to be patiently heroic daily is the test of character." "When clouds gather fast stand by your helm. Many a ship has been saved because the courage of the skipper was greater than the fury of the storm." Courage is a virtue held in universal esteem. There has never been an age in which it has not been deemed a praiseworthy and a precious thing. Some of the world's greatest achievements have been made possible through this foundation stone of character. It is this element of courage, greater than all else, which helps individuals to heed the call of each day's struggle and combat all things that lead to failure and despair. In the character of Jesus we find a pattern for all men—In him we find bravery at its best, courage at its loftiest. His was not a physical courage, possessed alike by man and beast; it was not a military courage, that kind which sends a soldier across the field into a burst of flame, carried forward by the very momentum of the movement; Nor was it that occasional courage that is satisfied with one great moment of exertion and of risks. His was the courage of mind and the heroism of the heart; the courage of commonplace days manifested hour by hour. True, the New Testament gives us many illustrations of the courage of Jesus, both thrilling and picturesque, such as his cleansing of the Temple, or when he came from the Garden of Gethsemane and startled the band of men who had come to arrest him by saying "I am the man you seek." Think of Christ's appointed work, the greatest that ever was to be done upon the earth. What toils, what grievances attended his mighty task—-If he had wearied, lost courage—what then! He came to this world to serve mankind, bringing its greatest blessings, eternal life and exaltation. Instead of receiving him with gratitude as mediator and Savior he was rejected and crucified. "His life was a tragedy of ingratitudes'—-What courage one must have to go steadily on in the face of ingratitude! What courage is required to face loss of esteem, among friends and associates when heeding the call of duty—As Jesus taught in the synagogue at Nazareth among those who had known him always, the people rose up and thrust him out of the city. But Jesus went on still teaching, still doing his duty. What more vivid picture have we of ability to face impending trial courageously than when Jesus set his face steadfastly to go to Jerusalem where he knew they would scourge him, spit upon him and crucify him. His was the courage of foregoing popular applause. He could easily LESSON DEPARTMENT. Have drawn to himself the so-called "great" of his day but all men were Jesus' brothers; he associated with the poor and lowly, even with sinners, thus losing the approbation of many. Jesus said "I am not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance." ' The courage of Jesus is the kind needed by every man and woman. The courage with which to meet the problems of every day; to meet life's tests. To keep sweet in the daily grind, to keep on going hour after hour, to cast off petty irritations, to meet irksome detail with a mind undisturbed. We need to remember "it isn't the big trees that trip us up as we walk through the forest, but the vines on the ground, the low underbrush." "The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid?" 673 References Jefferson, The Character of Jesus. Luke 4:16-30. Mark 10:32. Matt. 9:10-13. Questions 1, Explain and give examples of physical courage; military courage; occasional courage. 2. What type of courage was manifest by the Mormon Pioneers? Give illustration. 3. What type of courage is required to face ingratitude? Poverty? Disappointment? 4. Upon what elements is courage based? 5. Select from the Gospels additional illustrations of every-day courage of the Master. Literature Lesson 4 LOG CABIN LADY LOG CABIN LADY" is a book written with a definite purpose. Though, in a sense, it is an autobiography inasmuch as it tells the life of the writer through her most important years, it is told chiefly to impress upon women and educators the importance of teaching their children and the children of the schools the best social usages; but, more important still, an attitude toward social forms. The author of the book and, therefore, the subject of these next two lessons, is anonymous. We must speak of her only as Mary, but perhaps that is an advantage. We can be more objective in our discussions.. Marie M. Meloney, editor of '"The Delineator," tells us in the preface how the book came to be written. She says she met the author at a luncheon where a discussion arose which resulted in her asking "Mary" for her story. "It took nearly a year to persuade this remarkable woman to put down on paper, from her recollections and from her old letters home, this simple story of a fine American life. She consented finally to write fragments of her life, anonymously. We were pledged not to reveal her identity. A few changes in geography and time were made in her manuscript, but otherwise the story is true to life, laden with adventure, spirit and the American philosophy. She has refused to ac- 674 cept any remuneration for the magazine publication or for royalties on the book rights. The money accruing from her labor is being set aside in the Central Union Trust Company of New York City as a trust fund to be used in some charitable work. She has given her book to the public solely because she believes it contains a helpful message for other women. It is the gracious gift of a woman who has a deep and passionate love for her country, and a tender responsiveness to the needs of her own sex." The known items in the life of Mary can be sketched briefly. Born in a log cabin in Wisconsin, she married at twenty, a man of wealth and education from Boston whom she had met at Columbia University. He, on account of having received a diplomatic appointment in England, took his young wife almost immediately to London where they remained for a number of years. This book, interestingly written in simple, beautiful language, relates the story of the struggle this backwoodsman's daughter had to master the social usages of the various oc-. Casions which she was called upon to face. "I was born in a log cabin. I came to my pioneer mother in one of Wisconsin's bitterest winters," she begins her autobiography. "Twenty-one years later I was sailing for England, the wife of a Diplomat who was one of Boston's wealthy and aristocratic sons. "The road between—well, let it speak for itself. Merely to set this story on paper opens old wounds, deep, but mercifully healed these many years. Yet, if other women may find here comfort and illumination and a certain philosophy; I am glad, and I shall feel repaid." "The first thing I remember is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE being grateful for windows. I was three years old. My mother had set me to play on a mattress carefully placed in the one ray of sunlight streaming through the one glass window in our log cabin. Baby as I was, I had ached in the agonizing cold of a pioneer winter. Lying there, warmed by that blessed sunshine, I was suddenly aware of wonder and joy and gratitude. It was gratitude for glass, which could keep out the biting cold and let in the warm sun. "To this: day windows give me pleasure." That suggestion of windows might be taken as a sort of keynote or theme of the book. She scarcely mentions them again, but the story is of a person looking out of windows, not always sunny ones, at the splendor and grandeur of the world which sometimes warmed and thrilled but which more often frightened and scorched her. The library which her pioneer parents had in their home at the time of the arrival of Mary consisted of " 'Bancroft's History of the United States,' several books of mathematics, Plutarch's Lives, a history of Massachusetts, a leatherbound volume of Civil War records, Thackeray's 'Vanity Fair,' Shakespeare in two volumes, and 'The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.' My mother's book, a Bible." Until she was fourteen, Mary saw no other books. "Because "Vanity Fair' contained simpler words than the others, it was given me first; so at the age of seven, I was spelling out pages of the immortal Becky. "My mother did not approve, but father laughed and protested that the child might as well begin with good things." "When I was fourteen, three tremendous events had marked my LESSON DEPARTMENT life," she says. "Sunlight through a window pane; the log-rolling on the river when father added two rooms to our cabin; and the night I thought mother would die and leave me the only woman in eighteen miles." - The fourth event, however, was really more important than the three named—a distant relative in the East had willed Mary's father her belongings. These were sent on to the frontier home and there for the first time Mary beheld a table napkin. A little later, Mary was sent East to school where she was soon to meet the man she married. During her association with Tom, the man she was soon to marry, Mary began to discover the many things she did not know about social usage. Intelligent though she was, she was embarrassed many times upon discovering that she had made. Some sort of blunder. Tom, though generous and fine, had difficulty steering her safely through social affairs. "To-day," she wrote in her book, "I appreciate better than I could then the gentle tact with which Tom told me his family was strong on 'good form'...." "The beautiful ease of my husband's women-folk filled me with admiration and despair. I felt guilty of something. I was queer. Their voices, the intonation, even the tilt of their chins, seemed to stamp these new 'in-laws' as aristocrats of another race. Yet the same old New England stock that sired their ancestors produced my father's fathers." Mary was wise enough to know that the difference between herself and her husband's women was merely one of education and opportunity, not one of inferior blood. But that thought was not sufficient to ward 675 off many unpleasant moments when she found herself at a loss to know what was the best form. Her visit to Tom's Aunt Elizabeth's home is effectively told by this woman who lays her soul bare in an effort to help other women to prepare their own daughters for a new station in life. The journey to England as the wife of an important diplomat and her presentation at various social functions in the British capital all had their moments of tragedy for the little girl from the Wisconsin log cabin. Despite her eagerness to learn the correct dress as well as the correct social forms, she could not master everything quickly. As a result, little incidents repeatedly tripped her up like the one where she was led into speaking to Mr. Gladstone across the table and into making what we now call a "wise crack" when speaking to Sir Thomas Lipton. "That night," says she, "I repeated my joketo Tom. Instead of smiling, he said: 'That's not the way to get onin England. It's too Becky Sharpish?" The author relates very well her presentation to the queen when, so impressed was she that despite her tutoring, she held out her hand to shake in a frank American way. "I have realized in the years since what a real queen she was. Smiling she extended her hand—but not to be touched. It was a little wave, a little imitation of my own impulsive outstretching to a friend; then her eyes went to the next person, and I was on my way, having been presented at court and done what 'is not done' in England." Her experience at the queen's "drawing room" and her other experiences led Mary to decide to hire a teacher. Seeing an advertisement 676 which read: "A lady of aristocratic birth and social training desires to be of service to a good-paying guest," she answered it and secured a Scotch lady to be her tutor. Her lessons in proper social usage began immediately, but how long they continued you will learn in the next lesson. There is a charm to this story of an honest, intelligent, country girl. Mary has handled her life's story beautifully, giving the reader only samples of the situations in which she found herself. Suggestions For Study 1. This book is so brief and so charming that much of it could be read with profit in class. 2. Since many of our Relief Society sisters have been reared on the farm, some exchanges of personal experience might be interesting and helpful. 3. Can you point out the qualities in this book which make for interest and charm? What would you say is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the "atmosphere" or 'dominant tone" of the story? 4. If there are any women in the class who have made an ocean voyage, they might relate personal experiences connected with the social life on board. 3 5. Why did Mary say that in the years that have passed she has come to realize what a real queen the queen really was? What did the queen do that was especially fine? Why was it fine? 6. How nearly was Tom right when he said: "Be your own sweet self and they'll love you?" Is being one's self enough? 7. Note how deftly the author mentions those with whom she associated—such men as Chauncey Depew, Mr. Gladstone, the queen. Why was skill necessary in such references? 8. It would be interesting for class members to renew their acquaintance with Becky Sharp by re-reading "Vanity Fair." Social Service Lesson IV TOLERATION FOR THE RIGHTS OF OTHERS Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chapters XXIT to XXIV LIFE for the average adult is so controlled by the economic forces of society that selfishness and intolerance give rise to the rules which govern human living more often than not. But many people are not aware of the existence of these traits within themselves. Nor do they seem to realize that the qualities of suspended judgment and toleration toward ideas, interests, and spiritual ideals which differ from their own, although difficult to acquire, are necessary to social welfare. These qualities are dependent upon a broad outlook on life and an altruistic concept of living from both an individual and a social point of view. For example: The struggle for individual success in daily life is apt to foster personal advancement at the expense of a one-sided attitude towards life. Community interests often develop sectional loyalty at the cost of an outlook which should embrace state-wide, national, and even international vision. Some people stoutly uphold the right to LESSON DEPARTMENT religious freedom for themselves, but persistently deny the same privilege to others. And yet the good of society requires broad vision, loyalty to large causes, and true religious freedom. But such a comprehensive ideal challenges the social thinking of those who seek' the improvement of conditions, and of those who desire that the measure of human happiness should not be limited to selfish interests and biased judgments. The present lesson will point out the fallacy of narrow interpretations of life by developing the following purpose:: Each individual should strive to cultivate a spirit of tolerance toward those people whose ideas, interests, and spiritual attitudes differ from his own Three phases of the problem will be suggested: first, difficulties experienced through intolerant attitudes toward opposing religious views; second, the hindrances caused by biased points of view which result from a restricted outlook because of community localization that produces envy and jealousy; and third, shortsighted aims in the struggle for personal advancement. Toleration implies allowance for the existence of beliefs, practices, and habits which differ from one's own, without personal feelings of resentment and opposition. Intolerance suggests an antagonistic attitude which may end in conflict. That toleration is possible may be seen from the fact that during the last two decades there has been significant advancement toward the development of tolerance in practically all religious bodies. Particularly since the World War, Protestant churches have broadened their outlooks in search of worthy social goals. Gradually, the idea is permeating the mass mind that greater 677 good lies in co-operating with people of different beliefs than in wasteful argument. Different creeds are participating in inter-church activities in the attempt to solve common social problems. Such facts indicate a new tolerance which it is well to cultivate rather than to oppose in any way. Increasing broad-mindedness is also shown in the conflict which once existed between science and religion. Formerly many churchmen considered much of the teachings of science wicked, unorthodox, and heretical, punishable by imprisonment or even death. Compare this attitude with the following statement: "Science and Mormonism see things in this world primarily in the same way and also reason as to the purpose of things in the same way; the one naming its product civilization, the other religion; both coinciding in the final generalization, viz.: The uplifting of the human race." Nelson, "Scientific Aspects of Mormonism," pg. 12. One may not understand the statements of natural law as proposed by scientists, or be able to harmonize apparent inconsistencies with the interpretation of the revealed Word, but good judgment should make one refrain from the condemnation of things which he does not understand. Judgment calls for suspended opinion and tolerance with the hope that further pursuance of the truth will bring unity to the ideology of conflicting theories. Often members of the same religious body differ more widely than do different creeds and separate denominations. Because of the fact that the present generation has undergone much religious uncertainty, most doctrinal beliefs and attitudes have been subject to close scrutiny. Many -have been modified. And while the fundamental principles of the gospel and 678 the revealed plan of salvation have in no wise been altered, the application of their principles to the general scheme of life are actually receiving new interpretations. It is quite probable that the coming generation will see more sweeping changes than the past. Mankind is in the very midst of vast changes in the social applications of Christianity. But is it wise to raise strong or passionate objections to such scrutiny and changes, to refuse the right to modify interpretations, to condemn evolving religious philosophy? The simple truths of all religious doctrine will stand the test of any scrutiny and the resistance of any application. Should not the spirit of tolerance prevail in regard to the use which oncoming generations put them to as long as life is constructive, rather than destructive, in so far as humanity is able to judge? Surely Mormonism will not fall before such a test! What are some of the aspects in which people may be called upon to modify their religious attitudes? To anticipate the future is most difficult, but the following possibilities may be mentioned: Religious agencies for the guidance, control and amusement of youth must undergo modification, expansion and change in purpose and personnel management. They must meet the desires of youth as they exist and not as adults would like to have them. The enlarging scope and work of the Mutual Improvement Associations is a splendid example of changes in this direction. The unified participation of churches and social agencies in problems for general social improvement will probably increase. The unified control of charity by churches and social exchanges for the benefit of all recipients is an example of this function, and is illustrated by the co-operative RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work of the Relief Society with other organizations. Churches are extending services to improve the physical and social betterment of the people by providing medical service, hospitalization, social and recreational facilities, athletic contests, general education, and schemes designed to improve the economic and social efficiency of people. Present points of view are bound to go through many changes as these new functions are enlarged. The second phase of this problem, biased attitudes resulting from too localized interests, will be discussed in regard toa sectional point of view. Those people who are isolated because of physical surroundings and lack of contacts with unlike environments are of necessity local in their experiences, but not necessarily in outlook. Often people who live under such circumstances are intolerant to most opinions and ideas outside their own. But, as has been previously pointed out, few communities are so isolated in the present age, that provincial points of view are excusable. Radios, moving pictures, and other agencies of communication tell the story of life from one end of the globe to the other. Automobiles, trucks, railroads, and airplanes make of even small communities cosmopolitan centers. While none of these practices equal actual travel, they suffice for broad educational ideology. However, this understanding of apparent conditions, customs, habits, and methods of living does not explain the underlying motives of human conduct. Members of a single family, fellow-religionists in close contact with each other, members of the same nation and race all find it difficult to make allowance for actions which are contrary to the personal point of view. Difference of LESSON DEPARTMENT opinion among close associates arises from opposing points of view. Intolerance arises from the closed mind which will not strive to understand -the opposite position. But if the selfishness which is fostered by the struggle for existence is ever to be overcome, the golden mean of understanding and tolerance toward others must at least become a part of one's conscious striving. It is well to remember that there are three sides to every question: "Your side, my side, and the one between." All people wish to be well thought of; each desires to promote his own economic welfare and enlarge his prestige in the community. Such desires may spring from a worthy cause, but they are often pursued from a short-sighted point of view. Too often only the immediate instead of the ultimate effect is considered. But time is the test of the effects of behavior, and unless ambition is built upon a long-time basis, success is apt to be short-lived. The desire to succeed should not overshadow good judgment or allow the development of a selfish and intolerant attitude toward others. Since toleration of opposing ideas, interests, and spiritual attitudes brings greater ultimate rewards it should characterize all emotional, mental, and objective patterns of behavior. To guard against selfish interests and biased judgments is to add to the ultimate happiness of humanity, and to increase the measure of satisfaction to one's self. There is a pattern of human behavior which rises above the selfish struggle of life, which springs from tolerance. No better example can be given than the life of Karl G. Maeser. Extremely well-born, welleducated, and highly gifted intellectually, he came across some Mormon pamphlets when he was a youth and 679 in a very skeptical mood, and' while stilla German citizen. Thirsting for knowledge, he wrote for further communication. But how he laughed, how he scorned the crude, rough usage of language in which his reply was clothed. Had he not had the insight to perceive the gospel-truths, had he not been tolerant towards the unlearned missionaries who brought their message to him, he would never have put himself in a position to receive the testimony of the gospel which came to him after he had humbled himself before God and these unlettered men. Had he not been tolerant of the crude ways of the men with whom he crossed the plains of America, he would never have discovered their sterling worth. Nor could he have achieved the high ideals which he attained in his new western home. Had he been obsessed with the pursuit of economic gain, or had he been short-sighted through a too localized point of view, he could neither have left the great heritage of education to the Latterday Saints which he did leave, nor could he have achieved the prestige, love, and honor which came to him through his very selflessness. But toleration was the cornerstone of this man's life. Such opportunities for tolerance and wise living continue to exist. Activities 1. In Great Britain, the Church and State are united. Originally the Government persecuted the dissenters. Yet in 1688 the British Parliament passed the Act of Toleration, which permitted practically all Protestant Christians to worship in their own churches. From the thoughts presented in this lesson, explain why the British Government changed its official attitude. 680 2. The Constitution of the United States declares that every person should have the right to worship according to the dictates of his own conscience. At first each denomination condemned and opposed all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE others with much bitterness, but in recent years there has been a decided trend towards toleration and even towards co-operation in general social affairs. Explain why this changed attitude has come about. Literature for Missions TYPICAL WOMEN IN THE CHURCH MELISSA JANE LAMBSON DAVIS Born in the United States "THE three women briefly considered in the foregoing lessons were born in Europe. But God's noble daughters are not all natives of the same land. They are found in every country. This is to be expected for they all have the same Father in Heaven, and each child of His has sparks of divinity within it. The subject of this sketch was American-born. She was chosen for study because she was in contact with and a part of the life of Utah from the earliest days until the present time, 1937. Her parents, Alfred B. Lambson and Melissa Bigler Lambson, who lived in Nauvoo, were well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith and were sincerely devoted to their new religion and the Church. They left Nauvoo with the exodus of the Saints in 1846 and began the trying and difficult journey to the West. Reaching Winter Quarters, Nebraska, on the Missouri River, the father prepared a dugout to house his family during their stay in the place and through the Winter of 1846-47. It was here their first child was born and named Melissa Jane. This was November 13, 1846. In the Spring the Lambsons left to go with a company of Saints to the Rocky Mountains. Of course, the baby Melissa could remember nothing of the long and trying journey across the plains. Suffice it to say, her family arrived in the Great Salt Lake Valley in September, 1847, only a few weeks after President Brigham Young and his company reached there. Her father soon began to build an adobe (sun-dried brick) house for the family, and when he finished it the following year, it was the first home in the Valley to have plastered rooms. But the plaster, like the adobes, was made of mud. The few nails used in the house were forged from wagon tires by her father on his anvil, Factory nails were not to be had. Even home-made ones were so scarce they had to be used very sparingly. In the early days in the Valley to live was to work hard, to do without all kinds of conveniences, to make the few simple necessary things— houses, furniture, clothes, etc., and to eat the simplest foods. Everyone worked and suffered; but all were optimistic and happy. They endured all kinds of privations uncomplainingly, for they were free. They had left persecution far behind. The air was pure, the sunshine bright, the LESSON DEPARTMENT enduring mountains, their shelter. That God was with them they never doubted. That He tried them severely they knew. Is not fine gold purified in the fiery furnace? They must prove themselves to be worthy of God's blessings. Out of their struggles would rise a great people to go as messengers of glad tidings to the nations of the earth, and to build beautiful temples at home. To worship God and build up His Church was their great objective. To this end the parched land must be subdued and made habitable. So all set to work with a hearty goodwill. Melissa Jane, like all the other children of the time, grew up with the country, willingly doing her part as conditioned by her age. In childhood she saw her mother spin cotton and wool, weave the yarn into cloth, dye it with colors extracted from native weeds, cut it into patterns from which she made the family clothes. Most other mothers among the Pioneers did these things also. They made their knitted goods, wove their rag carpets, milked cows, made butter and cheese, raised fowls, tended their children, kept their homes and encouraged their husbands to worthy deeds. Yes, the women worked long hours and so did the men. But all were optimistic and happy, especially the children. They were robust and healthful, therefore bubbling over with joyous youth as normal children are wont to do when circumstances permit. President Young was a wise and able leader. He knew that wholesome recreation was necessary to the welfare of his people. He encouraged them to sing and dance and engage in innocent amusements. He enjoyed music, drama and _ social gatherings. And so one of the earliest public buildings erected in Salt Lake City was the Social Hall, a 681 place where all these things could be indulged in. This was later followed by the Salt Lake Theater, built in 1868, which became noted all over the dramatic world, on the stage of which many of the best English and American dramatists appeared. As she grew up Melissa Jane learned to do the things she saw her mother do. Being the eldest child in the family, she was naturally called upon early in life to help with the younger children, and then gradually to help in other household work. Sooner or later she shared with her mother in doing the various types of work incident to the household. To indicate the thrift of the home, Melissa Jane relates that when seven years old she was greatly in need of a new dress. One day while playing in the yard she found an old bacon sack that some Government surveyors had thrown away. She took it to her mother. The latter made some lye by soaking wood ashes. In this she soaked the sack to remove the grease. From some weeds a coloring substance was obtained and the sack dyed brown. From this the waist was made and the skirt from a piece of blue denim. Many years later when recalling these incidents, Melissa Jane exclaimed, "My, how proud I was of my new dress!" Her parents, believing in education, as all Latter-day Saint parents were taught to do, sent Melissa to school during the school seasons of her girlhood years. Of course, the schools in those early days were poorly equipped physically. The rooms were usually small, poorly heated and ventilated, supplied only with crude furniture and wholly unattractive. But they were richly provided with something money cannot buy—sincerity, purity of purpose and the spirit of love. The atmosphere of the schools was wholesome, 682 indeed. Faith in God was the comnon possession of pupils and teacher. Melissa Jane remembers one of the most exciting episodes in early Utah history—the coming of Johnston's Army. She vividly remembers the consternation produced by the announcement to 2,500 picnickers at the head of Big Cottonwood Canyon, 25 miles from Salt Lake City, that a United States Army was on its way to Utah. In Missouri and Illinois the Mormons had been pillaged, driven and killed by State troops. They had fled from civilization and suffered heart-breaking agonies to find a place where they could live in peace among the mountains of the tar-away West. Now an unfriendly army was coming against them. This news reached them when they were on holiday to celebrate the tenth anniversary, July 24, 1857, of the coming of the Pioneers to the Valley. The next day they returned to their homes with heavy hearts, for they were to move again and burn their homes rather than let them fall into the hands of their rapacious enemies. But it was not necessary for them to destroy their homes. The sending of the soldiers was due to a great blunder of the President of the United States. When the misunderstandings had been cleared up, Johnston's Army entered the Valley peacefully, marched through Salt Lake City and made their camp forty miles southwest of the City. Melissa Jane said, "Though the coming of Johnston's Army was a most distressing episode, it proved to be a blessing in disguise. It was the means of providing the people with new wagons, needed supplies, etc., which the soldiers traded for grain and other farm crops." Thus again the Lord overruled evil and good resulted. We have spoken above of some RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE types of recreation in which the people indulged in those days. Of course, there were others. Speaking of her recreations Melissa Jane says: "We had our good times; we had corn husking 'bees', rag 'bees', candy pulls, etc. The candy was made by boiling down homemade molasses to a thick consistency and 'pulling' it. During the fruit season the girls would often get together in the afternoons and prepare fruit for ° drying. In the evening the boys would come for dancing. Many times we bought our tickets to shows and theaters with farm products— grain, fruits, vegetables, etc. I remember exchanging a squash or pumpkin for a ticket to the Salt Lake Theater. "We dried a great deal of fruit. I dried peaches and exchanged them at the store for goods to make my wedding dress. We felt it was a real luxury to have a dress of 'store goods'." Such a dress made her wedding a particularly happy event, which took place November 25, 1865. She married Albert Wesley Davis. But he had no home of his own to which he could take his bride. So they lived for more than a year in one room of her father's house. Here their first child was born. In those days young people were taught the desirability of marriage. They were advised not to wait until they had a marriage stake—home and property. Girls knew how to make and keep a home. They expected to be real help-meets to their husbands. A girl thrilled at the thought of helping her husband to make a home. Melissa Jane Davis was this kind of a wife. Shortly after the birth of their second baby, the Davis family was called to go to the Muddy country, just beyond the present southwest corner of Utah, to help settle the region. In the early days in Utah, LESSON DEPARTMENT President Young frequently ''called" a group of families to go out to some designated place and make their homes there. Many of the Mormon towns in all the country round-about had their beginning by settlers thus called. Thus the people were spread out, the available farm lands occupied and room made for the stream of emigrants that was flowing into Salt Lake City. But these colonizing ventures did not always succeed. The country was new. 'The climatic conditions were not well known. People had not lived here long enough to learn the vagaries of the weather. Among the very few failures was the venture on which the Davis family was called. The country during the summer was hot and dry. The rains were not spread over the season. They came in the late summer after long periods of dryness in the form of cloud-bursts, causing floods. The Davis family responded to the call and went into the inhospitable country. Their bedroom was a wagon box. Their kitchen was a cone-shaped enclosure made by driving stakes into the ground and weaving willows through them. It had a door with willow hinges but no windows. This structure was patterned after an Indian "wickiup." Their food was scarce, and they ate anything they could get. Some of the people lived on wild segos—small bulbs dug from the soil of the surrounding country. The summer heat was so intense that Sister Davis had to wrap wet cloths about her head to endure it. She said they all came down with the ague, and she went to bed every other day with chills. But a worse misfortune awaited them. The heavy rains resulted in floods that rushed away their crops leaving them wholly destitute. Seeing their pitiable situation President 683 Young released the settlers from the call to reclaim the region and told them to move wherever they wanted to go. The Davis family returned to Salt Lake City, and were helped by relatives "to get on their feet." After finally recovering from the ague, they moved across the Jordan River on to a farm where they built a modest home in which they lived for many years, their children in the meantime numbering three sons and six daughters. The hard work on the farm was varied by public activities. Her husband became Bishop of the Ward, was a member for many years of the City Council of Salt Lake City, filled two missions for the Church, attended to other public duties and finally was ordained a Patriarch. Sister Davis also faithfully did her part, supporting her husband in all his activities, besides working in women's organizations. When their family was raised, she was called with her husband as an ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple. Sister Davis passed away, August 26, 1937 in her ninety-first year. The quality of her motherhood and service in the Church is indicated by her posterity. Her living posterity at this date consists of 7 children, 30 grandchildren, 43 great-grandchildren, and 2 great-great-grandchildren. Both sons have been on missions, have served in Bishoprics and several other Church positions; the daughters are all active Church workers, one of them on the Relief Society General Board, another on the Primary General Board, and another was a Relief Society General Board member when she died. The others are working on Stake and Ward Boards. All the daughters and many of the grandchildren have been or are now members of choirs. All grandsons who are old enough
684
hold positions in the Priesthood quorums and in auxiliary organizations. Her posterity is "true to the faith." They have seen in her righteous life an example worthy of emulation.
Questions For Discussion
1. Point out that Melissa Jane Davis was "born of goodly parents."
2. What qualities of character did her parents exhibit?
3. Which of these qualities did Sister Davis exhibit?
4. Tell why the journey from Nauvoo to Salt Lake City was trying and difficult.
5. Tell why her parents came to Salt Lake City.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
6. Outline some of the conditions prevailing in Salt Lake City during the first years.
7. Name one or two things President Young did that show he was a wise and able leader.
8. What school advantages did Melissa have?
9. What were the motives that took Melissa's parents to the Muddy country?
10. Tell why you think she was a good wife and mother.
11. A fine posterity proves fine qualities in the parents, especially in the mother. Point out that Sister Davis' faith and nobility of character were rewarded.
Child Guidance Lesson 4
SEX EDUCATION
CURIOSITY about sex is as natural to the child as his inquiries about how the moon got up in the sky or what makes the flowers bloom. The great problem in sex education is to teach the child that home is the most reliable and ready source of sex information he can find. Restraints of good taste require that sex questions be discussed privately. But the child should not be made to feel that all that pertains to sex is low and wicked. Lack of reliable knowledge and repression of all discussion leads to a furtive interest which is finally satisfied in the alley. This information is not only unreliable, but it is tainted with vulgarism, which is an obstacle to the proper idealizing of love.
A child is curious about sex at first in exactly the same manner as he is curious about the beating of his heart or the working of his stomach. There is nothing wicked in his thoughts. Physically he is not mature sexually until he is about fifteen years of age. Sex, therefore, does not mean the same thing to him that it does to an adult whose moral attitudes about the whole problem are highly developed. Adult attitudes are so different from those of the child that children's questions are most likely to embarrass their parents. The child asks questions out of sheer curiosity in all it sees; the parent answers with expressions of shame and secrecy—and these are adult attitudes which in no way satisfy the child's need for information. When the parent scolds a child for asking where babies come from, she makes him afraid to ask that question again and many others that trouble his mind. A sense of shame is easily cultivated in the child,
LESSON DEPARTMENT
and this feeling drives him from his mother's side to children in the streets or back yards for his information. Curiosity is not checked by refusal of information, but is rather stimulated and made secretive. Children will find some kind of answers to their questions whether we relish the thought or not.
An unfortunate result of refusing unemotional and truthful answers to sex questions is that the parent alienates herself from the child in a field in which her wise counsel will be most needed later on. Some parents fear that the child will lose his innocence when he is told the truth, and that knowledge will somehow lead to experiment. In sex education, knowledge must come before experiment. Knowledge properly given will probably dispose, to a certain extent, of the desire and need for experiment. Secret sex experiments and the resulting perversions undoubtedly often arise and persist because the inquiring child is driven from his mother's side to secret places where there are no controls over his conduct. In other words, to guide the child's sex development, the mother must keep him coming to her with his questions.
Children occasionally ask sex questions as early as two years. The period of greatest questioning comes between four and ten years, and quite a large per cent ask their first sex question at five years. Questions most frequently asked pertain to the origin of babies, coming of another baby, growth before birth, the process of birth, sex organs and their functions, physical differences between the sexes, the father's part in reproduction and the meaning of marriage.
A mother must have some sort of accurate knowledge of the facts be-
685
fore she can answer these questions reliably. To the question. "Where do babies come from?" such answers as "From Heaven" or "God sends them" are theologically correct, but not suited to the intellectual needs of the child. He may seek more details from an unreliable and vulgar source if you do not supply them.
For a small child, four or five years old, surprisingly simple but accurate answers often satisfy. An example follows:
Billy, six years old, asked his mother 'What did I grow from?"
Mother: "You grew from a tiny cell, much tinier than the point of a pin. You lived in my body until you were strong enough and large enough to be born. Then you came outside."
Billy: "Why do mothers go to the hospital?"
Mother: "Because a doctor has to help the baby come out, and has to cut and tie the cord through which the mother feeds the stomach of the baby. The mother is rather tired by the time this has happened, so she stays and rests a few days at the hospital."
Billy: (throwing arms around Mother): "Oh, poor mother!"
Mother: "Oh, it isn't 'poor Mother', Billy, at all. Mother is so happy to have a new baby."
Billy: "Well, I wouldn't want it to happen to me!"
To speak to a child in this manner is not easy for most parents. Use of the proper names for sex organs and the steps in reproduction relieves some of the emotional tension. Correct terms are preferred because they can be found in scientific literature which the child will need in his later education, and because correct terms are not emotionally colored as is the slang of the street. Analogies from domestic animals,
686
birds and plants are often useful, partly because a child's curiosity often arises from watching their mating and growth. Sometimes a chicken which is being prepared in the kitchen is useful in illustrating what is meant by eggs or seeds and the appropriate comparison drawn to the human body.
When parents are advised to freely impart knowledge of this kind, certain cautions are to be kept in mind. First, the curiosity of the child should be the guide as to how much should be told. Mental growth of the child will call for more information at different stages of development. But he should not be put off by "Oh, you are too young to ask questions like that." Some questions cannot be fully explained to the child until his mind grows to a certain stage, but there is no excuse for not making an attempt to satisfy the child with something as near the full truth as he can grasp.
This freedom of conversation between parent and child should always be qualified by a certain good taste that calls for a degree of privacy, if not secrecy. The child should be taught that sex questions are private among themselves in the home, that just as people do not enter others' houses without their clothes on, neither should they talk about sex with people outside the home. If a child comes in with a vulgar expression from the street, the parent should realize that he has not yet acquired all of the emotional associations of the words that an adult has. The mother should teach the child the correct words and show him that they are the ones used by the home folks and that it is a home matter that should not be talked about on the street, nor generally with groups of people even at home. Careful cautioning will soon teach
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
most children the good taste of not raising sex questions in public and not carrying newly acquired information to everyone in the neighborhood. This accomplished, the parents' problem is greatly simplified, and much of the strain of the educational program is removed.
An intelligent program of sex education throughout pre-adolescence (up to about twelve or thirteen years) should keep relations of companionship between the parents and child that make possible the lending of a helping hand through the troubled years of romance. Most children cease asking questions after ten years of age, perhaps because the parents have closed the door by then through withholding information and by administering lectures which show a lack of understanding of the child's problems. Adolescents have problems which require more intelligent help than ever before in their lives, and useful is the parent who is still "in with" her child at this age. If the proper attitudes and controls have been developed during the previous years, the adolescent child will be well fortified to meet his problems. This would mean that he has been well prepared for marriage and family life by having acquired a proper knowledge of sex matters such as would tend to free him from some of the emotional handicaps that lack of knowledge often produces, and handicaps that so frequently contribute to the difficulties that interfere with marital happiness. At the same time, close harmony between the parent and child should have cultivated the controls that make him desirable as a virtuous candidate for marriage.
Home, including both parents, should be the primary source of knowledge and ideals in sex education. However, there is no question
LESSON DEPARTMENT
but that M. I. A. Activities and courses of study are important influences in harnessing the vital energies at a critical period of life, and in engendering the family ideals which characterize the Latter-day Saint home. To teach that happy home and love life is the reward of good living is a far more promising educational procedure than to emphasize too much the punishments of a wicked life. Latter-day Saint ideals of home life are invaluable incentives toward wholesome living. Sex education should be directed toward making the home more secure and more happy.
Problems for Discussion
1. Contrast the attitude of the child toward sex questions with the
687
attitude of the adult. Why are their attitudes so different? 2. Discuss the courageousness of the parent who "turns off" all of the child's sex questions because to discuss them is "so embarrassing." What evil arises from "silence"? 3. What is your opinion as to whether sex information tends to preserve or destroy the virtue of the child? 4. State some cautions you think are important in guiding the parent in giving information to the child. 5. What part should "good taste" play in sex education? Distinguish between good taste on the one hand, and evasion, prudish shame and secrecy on the other hand.
ALONE By Vilate Perkins Kent
Alone today, and all a-sea, No help seems nigh to strengthen me. Life's troubled waters o'er me roll And doubt besets my inmost soul.
The way seems long—the pathway dark, No peace affords my storm-tossed bark; My faltering step no gain has made, I cannot see—I am afraid.
Afraid to venture forth alone— Afraid of that which is unknown. I hear no answer to my call— I faltering stand, I fear to fall.
Alone! Must ever thus I go? No peace my anguished soul to know? Doubtful and faltering all the way, My fear increasing day by day?
No star of faith to be my guide? No friend to travel by my side? Nor know that blessed security Of placing all my trust in Thee?
Epilogue.
Alone! Alone! Yet need I be? How could I doubt Divinity? 'Twas His great wisdom placed me here, Then should I question, doubt or fear?
E'en though my mind can't comprehend The vast beginning or the end; No, Lord, I'll trust Thee day by day, Thy arm upholds me all the way.
Where Do Babies Come From? By Virginia B. Jacobsen
Little Nora, age six, sat sewing with her mother. Apparently she was paying little attention to the tiny white garments on which her mother was working. Finally out of a clear sky of other conversation came the remark, "It's a shame we don't have a baby to wear these pretty clothes you are making!"
"Would you like to have another little brother or sister?" asked her mother.
"Oh, Mother, I think it would be wonderful!" beamed Nora.
"Then, I will tell you a secret. We are going to have a little baby soon."
"Are we really? How do you know?" was the natural question.
"Because it is growing inside my body. Would you like to feel it move?"
Nora looked surprised. "Could I really feel it move?' She went to her mother's side, and her mother placed her small hand on the spot where a wee growing human was making its presence felt. Nora's eyes beamed. "Oh, Mother, I think it is just wonderful! I have wished for so long that we would have a baby. Does Daddy know?"
"Yes, Daddy knows. He and I planned for it months ago. I am glad that you are so happy about it. You can help me get things ready for our little baby."
Nora's mother was wise to meet the situation when it arose, without emotion, embarrassment, undue secrecy, or any tendency to avoid the issue. Nora was a perfectly normal child, and she responded to her mother's reply in the same spirit in which her mother responded to her question. It had been a perfectly normal
and natural question. It was a natural and normal reply.
If Nora is a questioning child and asks the next question which is likely to occur to her, "But, mother, how will the baby get out?" she must be answered. If we do not answer the question of birth when it arises, the child will likely figure it out for himself—not very correctly or satisfactorily—but he will figure it out in some manner. Or worse still, he will perhaps get erroneous information from ill-informed companions. It is a very simple matter to say to this question of how the baby will be born or "get out," "There is a special little passage-way in every mother just made to bring the baby down and out into the world when the baby is ready to be born."
This will be enough for some children, but with others we can go a little further to ease their minds and explain that the passageway is closed down usually, so that it is fairly small. But when the baby is ready to come, the muscles stretch so that the passage is large enough to permit the baby to be born. If the question of pain comes up, we should not worry the child with recitals of pain, but should simply say; "Of course it hurts, but we all must be able to stand pain at times. It is just part of being brave."
As long as a child continues to ask questions, the mother should answer. If she is old enough for the question, she is ready for the answer. The time to answer any question is the time it occurs to the child. We parents are often shocked and surprised at the questions put to us, but we must be ready for them.
Hygeia and Parents magazines are both urging that parents adopt a sane attitude toward sex education of chil-
WHERE DO BABIES COME FROM?
dren, but they stress the need of first educating the parents. The modern approach to the discussion of sex education involves first of all the adequate preparation of parents for their part in shaping the thinking and feeling of a child with regard to sex.
Hygeia says: "Parents attitudes on this subject depend to a large degree on the kind of preparation they have had or take the trouble to secure for their function as teachers in the matter of sex.
"A satisfactory preparation includes four things: first of all, a satisfactory adjustment as husband and wife, for if there is physical or psychic maladjustment, they are poorly qualified for the sex education of a child; second, an adequate parental understanding of the nature of sex and its relation to the highest individual and social values in human life; third, a suitable vocabulary to tell the children the needed facts; and last, the ability of the parents to face the question in a matter-of-fact way without a sense of confusion, shame or guilt when a child asks his inevitable question. Nothing parents say is nearly so effective as the way it is said."
The question of where babies come from is likely to arise in a number of different forms, but no matter how it arises it must be answered. A child brings his questions to the person who answers him. A line of communication established between parent and child is one of the most important accomplishments. "I'll ask mother," is one of the safest and happiest situations which can exist between mother and child.
Turn back the pages of your own experience, and remember the time when these questions came into your mind. Were you told the fable of the stork, the cabbage, or the rose,
689
or one of a dozen impossible tales? Or were you fortunate enough to have a mother, who even then, believed that these questions were right and natural and should be answered? If your mother did answer your first question honestly and frankly with perhaps a touch of sentiment, you went back to her thereafter for further information. But if she put you off, and avoided your question, you knew she was trying to wiggle out of the truth and you felt that there was something about it to be avoided. From then on you went elsewhere to satisfy your mind on these problems.
Although the question of where babies come from is the most frequent one of the early years, we do not escape other questions. And they too must be answered. "Why do people always get sick when they have babies?"—"Why can't we have a baby?"—"What makes your tummy so fat?" "How can you tell a baby boy from a baby girl?" These and countless other questions frequently confront us at moments when we are least in the mood for answering them. But our mood has nothing to do with the situation. We parents must be prepared to face any such problem at the moment when it arises.
There need be no embarrassment in answering the question of life. The child feels embarrassment only when we ourselves show it. If we are prepared with the proper information, it is a simple matter to answer these perfectly natural questions when they arise. And they do arise in the mind of every normal boy or girl at some time. If your child is not coming to you for information you can rest assured that he is getting his knowledge from some other sources, and nine times out of ten the information he is getting is neither correct nor wholesome.
690
There is no excuse, today, for mothers and fathers who fail to properly prepare their children for clean, wholesome sex life. Our libraries are supplied with splendid books which will be of great help in preparing the parent for this great responsibility. The following list of books is available in most libraries or may be purchased at any book store:
New Patterns in Sex Teaching, by Frances Bruce Strain. (We recommend this book for every home library.) $2.00.
Growing Up, by De Schweinitz. $1.75.
Parents and Sex Education, by Gruenberg. $1.00.
Sex Education for the Child, by Mary D. Wareing.
Note: The above books can be secured from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. The prices quoted do not include postage and sales tax.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
SEGO LILY By Vesta P. Crawford
Oh lily of the desert, Flower of the arid loom, The year now turned to summer Has brought thy velvet bloom;
Oh lily of the desert, Flower of the lonely place, Long have thy fragile blossoms Adorned this barren space;
Oh lily of the desert, A chalice brimmed with light, The shadowed rocks are lumined By petals shining, white;
Blossom of the promised land, Bright on history's page, Forever may thy splendor glow Among the western sage!
Good Business Position
—Of course you want one! You can qualify at the L. D. S. Business College quickly and at little cost—and receive expert help in finding work as soon as you are ready. Our Employment Department has placed more students this year than it has during any like period in our entire history. As many as ten calls for office workers have been received in a single day. New classes are beginning every week. Write, telephone, or visit for detailed information.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City Wasatch 1812
Bound Permanently and attractively in our up-to-date bindery by experienced craftsmen. Bring them in at conference time or mail them. Special rates for 10 or more volumes at one time.
PROMPT, COURTEOUS SERVICE.
The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
A red light means "Danger!"
And when you see a red light along the highway, you are warned of whatever danger might be ahead—washout, sharp curve, or other menace. Thus warned, you forestall calamity.
But what of the hazards along the highway of life—sickness, accident, death? More often than not, there are no signs of warning to protect you from these. But YOU can protect your loved ones against want, should you be robbed of life or the ability to provide.
The safe and sure way to give them that protection is with adequate life insurance. Learn how a planned life insurance program in this strong company will best serve your needs. Get in touch with your nearest Beneficial agent. If you do not know who he is, drop a postcard to the home office.
HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BLDG., SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT
The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Vol. XXIV NOVEMBER, 1937 No. 11
The Finest AUTOMATIC HEAT that money can buy at the lowest cost of any heating.
SAVE 50% OF HEATING COSTS with LINK-BELT AUTOMATIC STOKER.
Airmeter—Automatic Load Signal. Variable Intermittent Drive—Quiet Operation—Deluxe at No Extra Cost. Call or write for Free Heating Survey.
Utah Fuel Stoker Sales Co. Judge Building—Salt Lake City
YOU TOO MAY BUILD FINANCIAL INDEPENDENCE
SAFELY FOR 31 YEARS WE HAVE PAID REGULAR DIVIDENDS
INVEST 50c to $100.00 Monthly
Chartered and Our Shares have a fixed value of 100 Cents on the Dollar and do not decline in value being FULLY INSURED up to $5000.00 by a FEDERAL AGENCY
Deseret Federal Savings and Loan Ass'n 44 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah Nephi L. Morris, President Joseph E. Kjar. Secretary
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
SCOOPS—
It's November. O. P. Skaggs System Stores are filled with new pack fruits and vegetables. All this month O. P. S. Stores are offering many specially low prices. Read our ads and see our windows—note the quality and the low prices. Make a list of everything you'll be needing, then come to our store and save this month—and every month.
O. P. SKAGGS "A Surety of Purity"
Prepare Now For Winter
Ask your dealer for
"Mormon Handicraft"
Coal
It's ECONOMICAL AND DEPENDABLE
Blue Blaze Coal Co. 1102 Walker Bank Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
BUY YOUR Christmas Gifts AT Shop
SECOND FLOOR Hand hammered copper, original Oil paintings, quilts, hundreds of Interesting artistic pieces to choose from.
Fruits and Vegetables Line...
Market
HOME OPERATED
Ask For Party Delicatessen
1st South at 3rd East—7th South at 5th East South Temple at 2nd East
Bakery Dept. Meats
Home of... "Famous Laddie Boy Bread and Danish Pastry"
"We Feature" Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Complete BUREAU OF INFORMATION
And THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXIV NOVEMBER, 1937 No. 11
CONTENTS
Where Jesus Walked........................Vesta P. Crawford 691 Frontispiece—Winter Creeps on in the Rockies................................. 692 Chrysanthemums for Color.......................Dorothy Nell Muir 693 Recompense.............................Della Adams Leitner 694 The Lotus Eater.........................Mabel S. Harmer 695 "Give and Take" Baskets................Caroline Eyring Miner 699 Rainbow Gift..........................Claire Stewart Boyer 699 Happenings...........................Annie Wells Cannon 700 Little Moments of Eternity.................Lella Marler Hoggan 701 Music Department.................................................. 704 Home Spiritual Reading................................................. 705 Editorial: The Light that Shineth......................................... 706 Relief Society Conference............................................... 707 Lesson Department..................................................... 740 The Home Coming.....................Caroline Eyring Miner 759 The Little Things In Life That Make Us Happy Or Unhappy.... Fae Decker Dix 760
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 980
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address, Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
"Everything to Furnish the Home"
THE GREATEST VARIETY AND LARGEST STOCK OF
Living Room, Dining Room and Bedroom Furniture in the Intermountain Territory
400 Suites to Choose From
Granite Furniture Co. Out of the High Rent District
The Home of THE ROUND OAK RANGE AND AMERICAN BEAUTY WASHER
Quality and Service Come First—We Deliver Everywhere
MURRAY SUGAR HOUSE PARK CITY
PEERLESS LAUNDRY
For Health and Convenience
Snow White Clothes
Almost Next Door to the County Building At 224 East 5th South—Wasatch 1835
The NATIONAL Dyers
We operate our own plant. The finest of work at reasonable prices. See expert fur cleaning, tailoring and repairing. 10% Discount for Cash and Carry. ONE DAY SERVICE ON CLOTHES LEFT BEFORE 10:00 A. M.
LAUNDRY AGENCY IN CONNECTION
ONE DAY SERVICE ON LAUNDRY LEFT BEFORE 9:00 A. M.
Cash and Carry Prices: Shirts 12½¢.
—UNDERWEAR—
—MADE TO YOUR INDIVIDUAL ORDER—
Our 1937 Samples will be mailed you on Request—Together with Instructions and Order Blanks FREE of Charge
We Prepay Postage to All Parts of U. S.
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
1184 East 21st South Hyland 2182
BOOKS
A book makes a most desirable gift for almost any occasion. The best selection of books is to be found here. Here you will find a wide choice of distinctive and moderately priced gifts.
Order your personal Christmas cards now. Earlier selection means better selection. Ask about our novel "by mail' service.. On books, gifts, and greeting cards.
Deseret Book Co. 44 East So. Temple—Salt Lake City, Ut.
29 Bishop's Building
THE HARVEST Greeting
The harvest is in, with its golden wheat and man's oldest energy food. For vitality eat
Vitamin D Bread
Product of the
AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY
"FOUR WAYS BETTER"
The Big Home-Owned Bakery Telephone Wasatch 3286
BE SURE YOU RECEIVE THE ONE AND ONLY GENUINE
UTAH SPRING CANYON COAL
"ASK YOUR DEALER"
Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty
Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders
Temple and Burial Clothes
Variety of Grades and Prices
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY
Open Daily—9 A. M. To 5 P. M.
Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
WHERE JESUS WALKED By Vesta P. Crawford
As Jesus walked among his native hills He saw the way of seasons on the land, How welcome rain falls upon desert sand And drenches waiting seeds to life and fills Lone gullies with a swathe of waving grass; But though earth flaunts her yellow fields of grain, The glory of her blooming time must pass And turn to arid measure once again.
He knew that life is like a desert land, And His all-knowing heart could understand That multitudes seek not for life alone, But for some ancient comfort to atone For change and loss and all our futile tears— An everlasting gleam across the years!
WINTER CREEPS ON IN THE ROCKIES
The Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XXIV NOVEMBER, 1937 No. 11
Chrysanthemums for Color By Dorothy Nell Muir
WHEN the daylight of early fall grows shorter and afternoons bring dusk to shaded corners, every housewife tries to work into her budget the price of a cheerful bouquet. It is the time of the year when we reluctantly give up the colorful things of summer, and just as reluctantly, accept the approach of winter. We need a bit of beauty to fortify our spirits, and this comes to us in the bold, majestic chrysanthemum.
Because of its many different varieties from large poms to very small "button" blooms, and its delicate colorings, one can easily group chrysanthemum bouquets about any room with a pleasing harmony. The chrysanthemum is the flower of Thanksgiving time. Perhaps, because it blooms at a season of the year when naked trees and chill winds forecast the coming of bleak days and cold weather, we herald the first bloom with a spark of reverence.
LIKE the rose, the chrysanthemum is a romantic flower, its history dating back to the time of Confucius five hundred years before Christ. From China, the flower was later taken into Japan where it became a great favorite of the people and was adopted as the emblem of their highest order and the crest and official seal of the Mikado. So much did the Japanese love and esteem this pompous bloom, designs of the flower were used extensively on sword hilts, bronzes, pottery, artwork and lacquer-ware.
An old sea captain, returning from the Orient to Marseilles, brought the plant into France for the first time where it created a good deal of curiosity and speculation. Later, other tea merchants brought it into England about 1795. Ships from the Orient continued to bring the flower to the European Continent and England until a general interest created a commercial demand.
It was the Japanese Emperor, Uda, who instituted the first chrysanthemum show in 900 A. D. The next exhibition of importance was held in England in 1846 when seedlings of a small variety were shown. During the years that followed, it was regarded as a florist's flower, and societies for its cultivation sprang up everywhere. So popular has it become, it is now second only to the rose. Certainly no other flower has a more colorful history
694
savoring of the splendor of the East.
IN the home, the chrysanthemum is an ideal bouquet flower, clinging tenaciously to life as though reluctant to withdraw its stately presence. The people of Japan, the greatest flower-lovers in the world, have taught us the significance of flowers as a home decoration. To them, flower arrangement is an accomplished art, an expression of individuality. They have learned the effectiveness of a few flowers properly grouped together, rather than many flowers bunched in crowded vases.
The prevailing colors in the room govern the colors of the flowers used, as one should emphasize the other. Bright bouquets should be placed in darker corners to add life and cheerfulness. Flowers placed near a window should harmonize with the over-drapes, and the vases in which flowers are held should not detract from the flowers, but should give them background.
Use tall vases for arranging the long-stem
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
chrysanthemums and do not crowd them. Neither should they all be of one length. Irregular lengths add a garden naturalness to the arrangement. Combinations, too, are effective, and the chrysanthemum lends itself pleasingly to color harmony with other flowers. Bronze and yellow chrysanthemums are effective when grouped together; also, pink roses and yellow chrysanthemums make a delightful bouquet. Either of these combinations on your Thanksgiving or Christmas dinner table would give it a regal appearance.
The many varieties of the flower mean a scaling price range adaptable to every budget. But even those of the larger and more select variety are not expensive when properly used. Two or three large blooms can make an effective centerpiece, either alone, or when combined with other flowers, for it is not the number of blooms that gives an artistic effect, but the way in which they are arranged and the container in which they are placed.
RECOMPENSE By Della Adams Leitner
I gave from a sense of duty And looked for reward of praise, My efforts and work were fruitless, Ingratitude burdened my days.
I gave for the joy of giving, Nor thought of returns to be, And lo! From unnumbered sources My recompense came to me.
The Lotus Eater By Mabel S. Harmer
CHAPTER VI
HELEN could scarcely wait to get Danny to the seashore the next day. They went to town first and purchased bathing suits and the necessary implements for digging in the sand. When Helen had finally settled herself under a large umbrella and turned Danny loose to play in the golden sands under the bright sun she uttered a sigh of deep satisfaction.
This was the day she had longed for for Danny ever since that terrible time last winter when pneumonia had gripped the little body and she had fought so valiantly for his life. He would grow brown and sturdy again out here in the ocean breezes. She began building air castles for him. Danny should have an education—the best that could be had. He should grow up fine and strong both mentally and physically.
The child came up to her and started to pat and build in the sand. 'What are you building, Sonny?" she asked.
"A house," he answered briefly, absorbed in his work.
"Isn't that funny?" she mused. "I was building a house too."
"Let's see it," said Danny looking about.
"You can't see my house," said Helen with whimsical smile, "mine was an air castle."
Danny looked mystified for a moment and then turned back to his work. 'You can see mine," he announced with an air of superiority. "It's for you and me and Daddy."
"That's very sweet of you," said Helen. "Daddy and I will like a new home. We have been planning on one for a long time. What would you like to be when you grow up, Danny?" she asked, still wandering about in her air castle.
"A ductor," promptly replied the boy.
"Oh, a Doctor—like Dr. Ward," said Helen enthusiastically. "I think that will be splendid."
"No," drawled Danny in mild disgust. "'A ductor like we saw on the train."
Helen laughed and gathered him close to her. "You funny little fellow," she chuckled, burying her face in his chubby neck. But Danny was not to be so easily diverted from his labors and he squirmed free from her embrace, Helen looked after him rather wistfully as he went back to his sand-building and a faint yearning entered her heart. Babies grew up so quickly. If it were only possible to keep them close to one always.
THAT same evening her father and mother took her to a concert. Helen couldn't remember having been so thrilled and excited in years. She looked eagerly about, before the concert began at the beautifully decorated hall and the smartly dressed people. Everyone seemed to have such an air of taking the whole thing for granted that Helen longed to shake someone and exclaim, "How dare you be so unconcerned about all this? How do you know that it won't be the last good music you will hear for five years?"
She sat through the program as one entranced and stood up with a deep sigh of regret when the final
696
number was over. Her father who had sensed her keen enjoyment looked at her with a sympathetic smile and said, "We'll have a lot of these before you go back, my dear."
Helen answered him with a look of gratitude. On the way home he said, "We have a new gadget up to the house that you will be interested in. It's called a radio. We have only a pair of earphones but they are beginning to put them out now with loud speakers so that a whole room full of people can hear the program. Now something like that ought to go over big out on a ranch."
"I've heard about them," answered Helen. "Do you think we would be able to get anything out where we live? So far away from a station, I mean."
"And a powerful enough set would be expensive, of course," thought Helen. Nevertheless it would bear investigating and she determined to look into the matter very thoroughly before she went back.
SHE entered at once into an exciting round of gaiety. True to his word, her father took her to a number of good concerts. Her former friends arranged a number of parties in her honor and there were extensive shopping trips into Los Angeles.
Returning late one afternoon from one of the latter she was sitting gazing dreamily out of the window when someone stopped in the aisle beside her and exclaimed, 'Well, bless my soul, if it isn't the prodigal daughter."
Helen looked up quickly at the speaker and then held out her hand with a delighted smile as she said, "Why, Wayne Kent. I'm so glad to see you. Sit down, won't you?" removing her parcels from the seat.
Wayne promptly dropped into the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
seat. "Sure," he agreed, "I'll be glad to give you a chance to explain."
"Explain, what?' asked Helen rather bewildered.
"Explain why you didn't come back. You promised to, you know."
Helen glanced at him out of the corner of her eye to see if she could tell whether or not he was serious and decided that at any rate, it was advisable to pretend that he wasn't so she answered lightly, "But I have come back."
"So I see," he nodded. Five years too late."
Helen had no answer for that one so she decided to change the subject. "What are you doing now?" she asked pleasantly.
"Selling real estate. And maybe you don't think California is the place to sell it." he exclaimed enthusiastically. 'Why, Madam, we have the best climate in the world, twelve months of sunshine, ocean breezes, oranges and roses growing in your back yard. After you have once seen it you would never dream of living in—in—"
"Wyoming," supplied Helen, smiling her amusement.
"And speaking of climate, you don't even know the meaning of the word. You should see one of our winters. Then you'd really have something to talk about."
"I shouldn't be surprised," conceded Wayne, "but I'll be satisfied merely to talk about it."
"Perhaps you are wise," said Helen. "It takes a brave heart and staunch to live through a Wyoming winter."
"Lady — you win," answered Wayne in mock seriousness. "And now tell me about yourself."
"There's nothing much to tell," said Helen cheerfully. "I taught school for a year, married and have a husky youngster three years old. We live on a small ranch and hope
THE LOTUS EATER
some day to live on a big one. Now, what have you been doing?"
"Nothing very exciting. I finished college by some good fortune, went to work—and here I am."
"And haven't married," Helen finished in her own mind. She felt a slight feeling of satisfaction for which she was immediately ashamed. Why in the world should she care whether Wayne married or not? They had been only casual high school sweethearts and any feeling that she might have thought she entertained for him had faded very much into insignificance when she fell in love with Dan. Wayne really should marry, she thought, glancing back at him. He was such a fine, wholesome lad and, with his merry laugh and his twinkling blue eyes, would make an agreeable companion for some lucky girl. Yes, there was no doubt in her mind but that the girl Wayne married would be a lucky one.
"We have a new model home open for inspection," said Wayne, as they neared the station. "Would you like to see it?"
"Of course," answered Helen promptly. "What woman doesn't like to see a new home, even if it is someone else's—but I really should be getting back to my boy. I've imposed him upon mother all day."
"Imposed!" scoffed Wayne. "Now you know she adores having a grandson around to spoil."
"I'm afraid you're right," laughed Helen. "In fact the entire family spoils him in a most frightful manner."
"Then you'll come," said Wayne with an air of finality. 'Besides, it's still early and you can get home in plenty of time to help set the dinner table."
He picked up her parcels and walked over to where
697
his car was parked after they had left the train. Helen had a vague feeling that she was not doing exactly the conventional thing to be going with Wayne but she found herself in his car before she had come to any very definite conclusion about the matter so she said nothing more about it.
In a few moments they stopped in front of a charming colonial home finished in white stucco and adorned with quaint green shutters.
"There you are, lady,' said Wayne with an airy wave of the hand. "Every inch of it entirely modern, just $8,000 with a mere $1,000 down and the rest in easy payments that you would never miss."
"It sounds most attractive," agreed Helen, entering into his mood, "but I'm afraid I can't take it today."
"I was sure you would like it," Wayne went blandly on with his sales talk, "but the outside only tells half the story. Just wait until you see the interior."
He jumped down and came around to assist Helen from the car. She was not sure whether she was glad or sorry that she had agreed "to look the place over" as she wandered from one beautifully furnished room to another. She kept thinking, "What a nice, sunny room that would be in which Danny might play. How I would love that cozy fireplace on a winter evening. A pale green bathroom! It would be sheer joy to keep it clean."
It was the kitchen, however, that brought forth her most profound admiration. It was finished in a deep cream color with touches of delft blue and looked as if it would be utterly disdainful of dirt or soot. There was a sparkling new electric range, a closet where all brooms and mops would be kept discreetly out of sight. There were various contrivances for making
698
housework light, some of which Helen had never seen or heard of before. Her eyes grew misty and her mind filled with a picture of an old-fashioned kitchen finished in rather rough woodwork painted by a novice and dominated by an ugly black range and a wooden washstand. She followed Wayne out into the back yard—a lovely garden spot entirely enclosed by a high stucco wall.
"Now here is the best part of the whole layout," said Wayne proudly. "A yard where the children can play in the sunshine all the year around. A place to hang the wash away from prying eyes of neighbors or to eat your supper on a warm evening. Now what more can you possibly ask?"
"Not one thing," answered Helen fervently. "After we have sold the little ranch and bought a big ranch, we'll sell the big ranch and come here and buy this house. Will you save it for me?"
"I'll be glad to," said Wayne gallantly as they walked back to the parked car. As they drove toward home Helen noticed Nina on a street corner being helped into an automobile by a young man Helen had never seen before. Wayne also saw them and asked, "Does Nina see much of Cary Hughes?" "T don't believe so," answered Helen. "At least, he has never been to the house that I know of. Why?" "Nothing in particular, except that he isn't quite the sort of a fellow for a fine youngster like Nina to be running around with. I thought that Wendell Baker was calling up to your house pretty regular." "He is," agreed Helen, "although I don't believe he gets all the encouragement he would like from Nina. You know how it is," she laughed, "the boy who has been around all the time doesn't have quite the allure that a stranger does." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Yes, I know," said Wayne quietly. Helen blushed. She had not intended the remark to be at all personal or to apply in the least to her own case. "Just what do you know about this Hughes?" she asked again. "If Nina is seeing very much of him and he isn't the sort of man she ought to be going around with, we ought to know about it." "T know that he isn't good company for Nina, you can depend on that much," answered Wayne, "but don't worry about it until you know you have some cause. Here, evidently, is where I lose my passenger," as he drew up to her home. "I'd like to take you to see the folks some day before you go back." "I'd love to go," answered Helen, who had very pleasant memories of Wayne's mother and sisters, "and thank you for an enjoyable afternoon," NINA did not come home at all to dinner and Helen was becoming genuinely worried about her until she walked up to the house shortly before dark. Helen was sitting out on the front porch and Nina dropped into a rocking chair beside her. "Did you have a nice time?" asked the younger girl in a tone that Helen instinctively felt to be a wary one. "Ves, very,' she answered. "I met Wayne Kent on the interurban coming in from Los Angeles and he took me to see a model home that his company is showing. What did you do?" she finished, trying to make her tone sound casual. "Went for a drive along the ocean and out to the "Silver Slipper" for dinner. By the way," she added carelessly, "you needn't tell father that I wasn't with Wendell this evening. He gets all upset if a stranger THE LOTUS EATER crosses his path and it isn't good for his digestion." "Nina!" exclaimed Helen. "That's a very flippant way to speak of father. Have you any reason to think he would disapprove of your seeing this particular man." Nina paused for a moment before she spoke and then said hesitatingly, "Well, yes." "Then why not drop him?" "Because I like a little excitement now and then and an occasional drive with Cary Hughes isn't going to 699 wreck anyone's life." Nina tossed her head as if to clinch the statement. 'Don't be too sure," said Helen seriously. 'An occasional dinner and drive may lead to something worse." "Oh forget it,' said Nina sharply, rising to go into the house. As she opened the door she stopped long enough to fling back at Helen, "As far as that goes, it doesn't look too well for you to be riding around with your old beau." (To be continued) "GIVE AND TAKE" BASKETS By Caroline Eyring Miner GRANDMOTHER told me that in the early Pioneer days folks used to have a "give and take" basket that went the rounds about the neighborhood quite regularly. One good neighbor, for instance, who happened to have an extra supply of tallow candles might start it by putting some of them into a basket and sending them to the next-door neighbor who took them out if she needed them and if not she added something she had a surplus of, and sent the basket on. In this way, Mrs. C. Or Mrs. D. Or Mrs. E. Might give or take, butter, eggs, buttons, or anything else that she needed or had an extra supply of. The ideal of mutual helpfulness back of the "Give and Take" basket is just as applicable to us today as it was to our great grandmothers. RAINBOW GIFT By Claire Stewart Boyer She kept a rainbow in her heart To shine the dull days through, But it became a glowing chart For other women too. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon In bleak November when trees were bare The Pilgrims knelt in praise and prayer. Of Utah, during her extended visit to the Hawaiian Islands this past summer personally visited and addressed members of the Leper colony at Molokai, giving to these imprisoned souls words of comfort and of hope. DOROTHY TAYLOR of Brooklyn, won first prize in the nation-wide women's essay contest on the subject "What woman has contributed most to the development of the United States from 1825 to the present time?" Her subject, "Mrs. Jones," developed the theme that her contribution was children. Among the 300 entries the names of Jane Addams, Susan B. Anthony and other notables appeared. FQuaL suffrage for the women of Mexico is promised by President Cardenas. He pleads for the integration of women in the national life. At the same time President Quezon of Manilla threatens to veto any suffrage law unless it requires a head tax. PATRICIA MAGUIRE, beautiful Chicago girl, died suddenly this past summer from bronchial pneumonia. For five years she had sleeping sickness from which her family and physician thought she would recover. ANITA LIZANA, of Chile, captured the 1937 national women's singles tennis championship. Mrs. LOUISE Y. ROBISON of Utah, during her extended visit to the Hawaiian Islands this past summer personally visited and addressed members of the Leper colony at Molokai, giving to these imprisoned souls words of comfort and of hope. DOROTHY TAYLOR of Brooklyn, won first prize in the nation-wide women's essay contest on the subject "What woman has contributed most to the development of the United States from 1825 to the present time?" Her subject, "Mrs. Jones," developed the theme that her contribution was children. Among the 300 entries the names of Jane Addams, Susan B. Anthony and other notables  appeared. EQUAL suffrage for the women of Mexico is promised by President Cardenas. He pleads for the integration of women in the national life. At the same time President Quezon of Manilla threatens to veto any suffrage law unless it requires a head tax. PATRICIA MAGUIRE, beautiful Chicago girl, died suddenly this past summer from bronchial pneumonia. For five years she had sleeping sickness from which her family and physician thought she would recover. CLARA FIFE, of Newcastle, England, is chairman of Britain's conservative party and presided at the conferences of that august body. She is the first woman to hold that chairmanship. Mrs. KATE M. BARKER is Chairman of the Woman's Exchange, recently established under the direction of the National Woman's Relief Society. The Exchange is for the encouragement and financial aid of the home woman, skilled in different lines of domestic art. HELEN KELLER, blind lecturer, whose mastery over adverse conditions excited the admiration of the world, showed her usual courage recently, when forced to undergo a major operation at the Mayo clinic in Minnesota. ELEANOR ROOSEVELT was the guiding hand in establishing the Industrial School for Negroes at Warm Springs, Ga. The curriculum includes courses in agriculture, home economics, wood carving, ironmongering and regular scholastic work from the primary to the ninth grades. ANN BRIDGES' new novel, "Enchanter's Nightshade," is a charming story with an Italian setting. Susan Ertz has again taken up a semi-biographical story in her "No Hearts to Break." It is the story of the American wife of Jerome Bonaparte. HRISTY COLES of Utah has a delicate sonnet ''Perhaps" in a New York collection of selected poems called "Candle in the Light." Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? GRATITUDE Take Time to Feel Grateful. By Lella Marler Hoggan "There's an old spinning wheel in the parlor, Spinning dreams of a long, long ago." —-Billy Hill REAMS and visions have shaped the destiny of the race. Always and forever men are following ideals, seeking paths that lead to peace and security, to "liberty and justice for all." When Moses led the children of Israel out of bondage, it was the knowledge that they were being divinely guided into a Land of Promise that gave them courage to meet the adversities of the wilderness. Lehi's vision was the incentive that led him and his family over land and sea to a new world. It vas following a dream of better thing; 'tat brought the Pilgrim Fathers out of the bog of fear and superstition across an uncharted sea to the land of freedom. And the Prophet Joseph Smith's glorious vision is the divine revelation on which Christ's beautiful gospel of this latter day is founded. It is the light of progress that led the pioneers across the prairies and the mountains to their beloved Utah; the ideal of righteousness that drew men and women from many nations and many walks of life, through toil and privation and sorrow, to the mecca of their dreams. ARE we going to lose the memory of that glorious vision? Do we undervalue that divine ideal that gave men and women courage to From the song "The Old Spinning Wheel," Copyright 1933, by Shapiro Bernstein and Co., Inc., New York. Cross the seas. In the steerage; to trudge a thousand miles across the dreary plains, abandoning their household treasures, and leaving their dead in shallow fire-charred graves along the way, with only the stars to keep watch against the hungry wolves? In her Hymn of the Pioneer, Kate Thomas expresses beautifully the courage and the faith of the early day Saints. Here is a short excerpt from her great poem: "Courage, my soul! All is not barren plain. What tho' the way be long and strewed with dead. His word is sure who knoweth all thy pain. Lift up thine eyes, His heaven is overhead. "Praise God, my soul! My children reap the seed Sowed by my faith and watered by my tears, God of the nations, God of every creed, Let them be just to what my soul reveres! "THE restored gospel brought the Saints a new pattern of life, simple, practical, true; a divine pattern, shorn of all superstition and false traditions. So sure of its divine origin were men and women that they were willing to go to the ends of the earth to bring about its fulfilment. They were willing to follow the call whether it led them to the red drought of Dixie, the bleak storms of Bear Lake or the sage brush and high winds of the Snake River Valley. “Hymn of the Pioneer," by Kate Thomas. LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY In the first years there were long hours of toil, few privileges, no luxuries, and many times meager rations and fear of Indian hostilities. But they were ready to endure inconvenience, suffering and sorrow, if need be, in order to sustain and establish that wonderful message of truth that had come to them. When they came into the valleys of Utah, the men carried with them their plowshares, assured that the way would be opened for them to moisten the baked earth that nourishment for man and beast might be provided. The women brought their looms, firm in the faith that if they would "Get the spindle and distaff ready, God would send the flax.' And when a devastating horde of crickets came upon them, they looked to a divine source for deliverance. Had not the seas been parted for the Israelites that they might pass beyond the reach of their enemies dry shod? And had not water gushed from the rock to slake their thirst, and manna been showered from heaven to sustain them? In like manner the faith of the Saints was vindicated in the miracle of the gulls. Says E. O. Laughlin: "O'er every modern luxury there lies The a" of ancient hardship. He who lies Across a continent on wings of gauze Threads the thin paths of meteors because His fathers wingless, earthbound, as they groped Through marsh and jungle, gazed and hoped. If that vision of truth was so priceless to our fathers that they were willing to sacrifice for it all things of worth, even life itself, is it not also worth time and sacrifice on our part? Are we truly grateful for this beautiful heritage? Are we willing to give a full measure of time and energy to its promotion? Or are we content to give a meager devotion to its furtherance, a lukewarm faith, just the "bark and twig ends," the left over scraps of our time and effort? THE harvest days are over. The winter's store is in the bin. It is a season of gratitude, a day of Thanksgiving. Are we truly grateful for the harvest of life? Is this home coming day a day of tender memories in which we garner from the past all of the gracious blessings that will enrich our lives and inspire our children to higher accomplishments? It is the spirit of gratitude and appreciation that turns the heart of the child to his parents, that gives him a desire to preserve the work of their hands and to finish what they have begun. Let us not forget those heroic souls who paid in coin of sacrifice and sorrow for the luxuries that we now enjoy. Let us not forget the ideals of truth they have established for our happiness. How grateful we should be that God's revealed word has come to us in this day in all its radiant glory. May we rejoice in it and use it to our eternal betterment as did our illustrious ancestors. This little excerpt is from Blanche Kendall McKey's lovely tribute of appreciation of them: "Tonight we burn your candles, pioneers: We glimpse the light that held your eyes and kept you strong. Tonight we catch your vision of the years, We share the courage of your vibrant song."§ §"Pioneer Candles," by Blanche Kendall McKey. Used by special permission of the authors or publishers. Music Department To Our Singing Groups Ors Relief Society organization offers unusual opportunity to women for training and development in the field of music. Our various groups of Singing Mothers throughout the stakes, are making a unique and important place for themselves. They afford a channel for self-expression and development for individual members as well as giving much that is beautiful and inspiring to others. "This is a day of demonstration for the Church," said one of our leaders at a recent meeting. In order to demonstrate what the Relief Society women have been able to accomplish in music and to provide an inspirational atmosphere for an outpouring of the spirit, plans have been made for a massed chorus of Sing-. Ing Mothers at our April, 1938, conference. Singing groups from the various stakes will augment the Relief Society Singing Mothers of Salt Lake City. Not all of our groups may be able to participate in our first venture, but we trust will be prepared to come later. Select your members with care, as to ability. Where there is a great deal of talent the number needn't be restricted to twelve, in fact in some cases it may be desirable to bring the entire membership. If a group is unable to come the chorister will be welcome. In preparation of the songs commit words to memory. Let the Relief Society office know not later than Jan. Ist, 1938 if your stake is participating and the number in the group. PRACTICE SONGS New Serial No. 4,371. "How Lovely are the Messengers," Mendelssohn. Schirmer Co., New York City. "Crossing the Bar," BarnbyAsper. Serial No. 4,446. "How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings, O Lord," Rheinberger. Oliver Ditson, Boston, Mass. Serial No. 89,005. "Inflammatus (Chorus only)—Rossini. (One copy.) Flammer, New York City. Old Serial No. 256. 'Holy Redeemer," Marchetti. Oliver Ditson, Boston, Mass. Serial No. 5,106. "Twenty-third Psalm," Franz Schubert. (The Lord is My Shepherd.) Carl Fischer, New York City. Serial No. 7,782. "The Lord's Prayer,'"' Forsyth-Dews. Schirmer, New York City. Instructions regarding the silk blouses to be worn by the Singing Mothers group when they feature the music for the April, 1938 Conference. A shirt waist blouse made in Salt Lake City, such as the Singing Mothers group are now using costs $3.00 complete—this includes material, buttons, ribbon and the making. For those who prefer making their own shirt waist blouse there are two definite requirements—Ist, that the material purchased be exactly the same as that now used by the S. L. Group. 2nd, that one individual in MUSIC DEPARTMENT each stake make the blouses so they will all be uniform. The material is obtainable at the Z. C. M. I. Wholesale Department, and if purchased in one-half or full bolt will cost approximately 48c per yard. When ordering write to Mr. Sharp, wholesale Z. C. M. I. And be sure to ask for white (not cream) satin deluxe. It will require approximately 214 yards for each blouse. Blouse Measurements Width of collar at back 3" finished. Width of collar to point in front 414", "Width of cuff 214"—fit of cuff to 705 be determined by individual—fits snugly. Width of front panel where buttons are set 134". 214" tucks on each side of panel 1%" apart, and edge of panel finished with 19" tuck so it makes 31%" tucks in all, down front. Gold ball buttons down panel, 24%" apart—number to be determined by length of blouse. Size of buttons about 14" through. Band at bottom of blouse 234" wide. 4 darts upper part of back of blouse—1 on each side of blouse front—from shoulder seam down. Tie requires 14 yard Royal Blue 1" grosgrain ribbon. Home Scriptural Reading "THE Theology, Teacher-Topic and Home Scriptural Reading courses as outlined for 1937-38 should contribute definitely to a knowledge of the four Gospels. In correlating these courses all departments are benefited. It is not the intention of the organization to use the entire New Testament as a home reading course but rather to intensively study the four Gospels. It is hoped that this year all Relief Society members and their families will thoroughly familiarize themselves with the life and teachings of the Master as contained in these four books. OR a birthday, wedding or Christmas present, "Mormon Handicraft" may have just the thing you are looking for. A lovely hand-made article will carry a personal touch that is so appreciated by every one. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES ROBISON - AMY BROWN LYMAN - KATE M. BARKER - JULIA A. F. LUND Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD President First Counselor - - - Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Nettie D. Bradford Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B, Barker Rosannah C, Irvine Editor Manager - Assistant Manager - - - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Nellie O. Parker Mary Connelly Kimball - Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXIV NOVEMBER, 1937 No. 11 Editorial The Light That Shineth "THE unprecedented attendance, the enthusiasm, and the spiritual fervor exhibited at the recent Conference, give evidence of the eagerness of the Church membership to partake of the instruction and inspiration of those chosen to lead. The recognition and respect now accorded the Church challenges the membership to renewed endeavor in upholding Latter-day Saint ideals and standards. Our venerable Prophet, bearing a powerful testimony of the truth of the Gospel, calls upon each individual to cling fast to the faith, to observe the laws and keep the commandments. "And by hearkening to observe all the words which I, the Lord their God, shall speak unto them, they shall never cease to prevail until the kingdoms of the world are subdued under my feet and the earth is given unto the Saints, to possess it forever and ever. "For they were set to be a light unto the world, and the saviors of men." —D. C. 103:7-9. President Grant's confidence, as expressed at the Relief Society conference, in the faith, spirituality and industry of the women of the Church as builders, must be maintained. They set the standards and lay the foundations for future leadership. Only as they fit themselves by obedience to the laws and commandments of the Gospel may they wield that influence essential to the greater growth and development of this Church. Only by individual adherence to the laws and teachings of the Gospel may we become the light that shineth and the saviors of men.
Relief Society Conference
OPENING SESSION September 29 and 30, 1937 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secy.
OFFICERS' MEETING
THE semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, Utah, September 29 and 30, 1937, with 20 board members, and representatives from 17 Missions and 116 Stakes. The following is the attendance at the officers' Meeting: Mission Presidents 17; Stake Presidents 85; Counselors 119; Secretaries 42; Board Members 388; Total attendance 651.
Seven meetings were programmed, with consultation service for Choristers and Organists, and two special features—the Scriptural Art Exhibit, and the pageant "The House of Israel."
President Louise Y. Robison presided over the Conference, and Counselor Kate M. Barker was General Chairman. The Salt Lake City Stakes furnished the ushers.
The meetings on Wednesday, September 29, were held in the Assembly Hall, Temple Square, and were devoted to the educational program of the Relief Society. The opening session sounded the keynote of the conference in the greetings of President Robison "Spiritual Growth Through Education." The Department Meetings, conducted by the Lesson Chairmen followed. Special help was given to Class Leaders and those responsible for the conduct of the educational program in Relief Society.
The General and Stake Officers' Meeting held in the Assembly Hall, Temple Square, occupied the morning of Thursday, September 30. The General Session, to which the public was invited, was held in the Tabernacle from 2 to 4 p. m. The attendance was record breaking for the Fall Conference.
Enthusiasm, coupled with spirituality permeated all the meetings. The music from first to last was of the highest order possible, and added greatly to the enjoyment of the sisters, and set an exalted standard of cultural values.
One of the most touching and beautiful parts of the conference was the singing of Sister Sarah Ann Keddington and her group of talented sons and daughters. The whole organization saluted this wonderful mother.
The Relief Society acknowledges a deep debt of gratitude to the Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the direction of Charlotte O. Sackett; to Alta B. Cassity, Professor Frank W. Asper, William Hardiman, the accompanists; to Margaret Hewlett, Bessie Marley, Peggy Epperson, Annette Richardson Dinwoodey, Virginia Freeze Barker, Ruth Jensen Clawson, Evangeline T. Beesley, Ilene Bagley, Mrs. Lincoln F. Hanks, and Mrs. J. Stuart McMaster, for their special musical numbers; to Adeline R. Ensign for her fine organ music; to the Cottonwood Stake Singing Mothers, under the direction of Sister Nellie Bennion, Anne Hansen, accompanist, and Zola Jacobs McGee, soloist.
The Scriptural Art Exhibit, un-
708
der the joint direction of the Theology and Teacher Topic Committee, was one of the delightful features of the Conference; educational and cultural, a visual demonstration of the inspiration to the highest art, coming from the subject matter of our Scriptural Reading Project, of the Teacher Topic, and of Theological studies.
The Sacred Pageant, "The House of Israel," presented by the Granite Stake Relief Society, was a great
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
contribution to the entertainment as well as to the instruction and inspiration of the organization members. The beautiful portrayal of the material used in our study courses—the meaning of life and the challenge to woman, were most artistically portrayed. Sister Myrtle B. Latimer, the Relief Society Stake President, and those associated with her in the production, certainly merit the hearty congratulations and deep gratitude of the Relief Society.
GREETINGS President Louise Y. Robison
My dear Sisters: It is one of the happy experiences of my life to meet you at Conference. While the six months go so quickly in general, it seems a long time since you were here in April.
This morning we have Mission Presidents and Representatives from Canada, from many of the European countries and from almost every part of the United States. We miss some of the faces of those whom we have loved for years, some who have been with us and encouraged us, but our love and our blessings will go to them even if they are not here.
Many of us are thinking this morning of Sister Amy Brown Lyman, who is in Europe, doing a splendid work with the Relief Societies of the European Mission. I believe she is thinking of us too, and possibly wishing, as we are, that she could be with us.
Each of you have come with a desire to get something to take back to your groups. Before closing, however, I must tell you how greatly the General Board members have enjoyed being in your Stakes and in your homes. How wonderful you are to entertain us, to care for your families, and to preside at your conferences. We do appreciate you!
We greet our new Mission Presidents and Stake Officers. I am sorry it has been necessary for a great number of Stake Presidents to give up Relief Society. I hope the new Presidents are here this morning. Do you sisters know who is sitting next to you? She may be a new President who has never been here before. Do greet her, and tell her how much we love the work, and how much we shall enjoy working with these new members.
May our Father in Heaven bless you all. May He bless these fine speakers who are giving their time to help us, and may we have an outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord, that we shall say at the close of these meetings, this is the best conference we have ever had. I pray for this, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
REORGANIZATIONS
Date Stake Released Aug., 1937 South Sanpete Mary B. Noyes
MISSIONS
East Central States Kate W. Kirkham Eastern States Grace S. Colton North Central States Elfie S. Richards Samoan Olivia S. Waddoups Southern States Ina A. Richards Tahitian Muriel R. Mallory Texas Louisiana H. Peterson Western States Winnifred B. Daynes British Ramona W. Cannon Danish Eliza S. Peterson German-Austrian Elizabeth H. Welker Netherlands Hermana F. Lyon Palestine-Syrian Bertha W. Piranian Swiss-German Susan G. Kelly
709
Appointed President Annie M. Farr
Grace V. Price Belle Johnson Lyle M. Berry Hannah Clyde Maude W. Call Artimisia George Eva F. Driggs Phoebe Markham Clarice B. Tuttle Edna Atchley May T. Johnson Martha Westenskow
NEW ORGANIZATIONS
New England Appointed President Japanese Nelle L. Macdonald West German Jennie Tew Priscilla Evans
Aug., 1937 Benson Ida D. Fern C. Eyring June, 1937 Box Elder Ruey Bernhisel Mima M. Broadbent July, 1937 Carbon Vera D. Sederholm Ruth P. Tingey July, 1937 Cottonwood Frances Christensen Mary T. Clayson Sept., 1937 Kolob Lavina H. McMillan Mrs. Thomas L. Woodbury, June, 1937 Malad Hannah B. Menden Lewella R. Christiansen Aug., 1937 Millard Nellie K. Dredge Ada P. Seegmiller June, 1937 New York Harriet A. Partridge Zina C. Brown Sept., 1937 Palmyra Lorena C. Fletcher Mrs. Mark Garff Aug., 1937 Teton Delila Hughes Susan G. Kelly Aug., 1937 Uintah Sophia Meikle Claire T. Murdock July, 1937 Union Elnora Vernon Mrs. Joseph Jacobs Mission California Josephine Hanks Faun B. McKay
Released Florence G. Smith
TEACHER TOPIC DEPARTMENT Belle S. Spafford, Chairman
PREVIEW OF TEACHER TOPIC FOR 1937-38 Amy W. Evans, Member of General Board
THE Relief Society Visiting Teachers this year will approach with reverent spirit and prayerful hearts, the study of "The Character of Jesus." With reverent spirit, because His is the greatest character ever known, our divine pattern, our Savior! With prayerful hearts, in
710
order to keep in spiritual harmony with Him.
It is not the purpose in the nine lessons to consider more than a few of His character-traits, and these in a simple way, not elaborating, taking from the New Testament illustrations of character and incidents in His life. The purpose of this study is to create such a sincere and fervent admiration for Him in our hearts, and in the hearts of those we visit, that we and they will aspire with whole souls to be more like Him.
Plutarch said, "Character is simply habit long continued." In the goings and comings of our daily lives we form our characters. The first character trait to be considered is the strength of Jesus. The power to master Himself was a part of His strength. Would it not be profitable for us, as teachers, during that month to see to what extent we can master self, and thus incorporate, at least in some degree, this quality into our own characters. Likewise, when His firmness is the subject, for us to check ourselves and see if we have stood firm when tempted to sacrifice principle for expediency. His optimism should increase our faith in others and help us to be "one of those happy souls which are the salt of the earth." Can we not keep His patience in mind for a month and by so doing be more pa-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tient and forgiving with the faults of others? And in the same way His humility will help us to be more teachable, less vain and ambitious, and His poise will give us better balance. His friendliness, His reasonableness, His courage we might try to emulate month by month as we study.
This method may seem a simple one but it is a very effective one in forming desirable habits, and, as has been said, character is simply habit long continued. We would suggest that in order to attain the great objective of the Teachers Topic this year we first observe ourselves month by month to determine just how nearly we approach the pattern set by Jesus. By so doing we can influence and inspire others to do the same.
None are advancing more swiftly toward the establishment of the kingdom of heaven upon this earth than those who strive, by prayer and daily effort, to conform their lives to the pattern presented in the character of Jesus. We hope that the Visiting Teachers will be twice blessed in their efforts to take this message into the homes of the people. They themselves will be blessed as well as those whom they visit, that at the end of the year they will be able to testify to a more abundant life through this study of the Character of Jesus!
THE CHARACTER OF JESUS Elder Nephi L. Morris
IN the life of Christ we have depicted a character of unusual proportions and sublimity. It is worthwhile to see with our spiritual eyes and with great care. It is possible out of 2,000 years to get some idea of the proportions of a personality—size, magnificence and quality! I emphasize quality.
Here is perhaps the most graphic description of Christ, given by a man named J. A. Francis, of Los Angeles.
"Here is a man who was born in an obscure village, child of a peasant woman. He grew up in another obscure village. He worked in a carpenter shop until he was thirty, and then for three years he was an itin-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
erant preacher. He never wrote a book. He never held an office. He never owned a home. He never had a family. He never went to college. He never put his foot inside a big city. He never traveled two hundred miles from the place where he was born. He never did one of the things that usually accompany greatness. He had no credentials but himself. He had nothing to do with this world except the naked power of his divine manhood.
"While still a young man, the tide of popular opinion turned against him. His friends ran away. One of them denied him. Another betrayed him. He was turned over to his enemies. He went through the mockery of a trial. He was nailed upon the cross between two thieves. His executioners gambled for the only piece of property he had on earth while he was dying, and that was his coat. When he was dead, he was taken down and laid in a borrowed grave through the pity of a friend.
"Nineteen wide centuries have come and gone and today he is the center of the human race and the leader of the column of progress.
"I am far within the mark when I say, that all the armies that ever marched, all the navies that were ever built, all the parliaments that ever sat and all the kings that ever reigned, put together, have not affected the life of man upon this earth as powerfully as has this one solitary life."
Beautifully expressed, graphic in every way. Now by what power became He so great? By what human yardstick would you measure the proportions of His character? Who was this wonderfully perfect man? What human qualities made this incomparable character? What does it mean to us?
It is a very simple old formula. Sow a thought you reap an act; sow an act you reap a habit;
711
sow a habit you reap a character; sow a character you reap a destiny. You all remember that without repetition—thought, action, habit, character, destiny—a natural process. That is why we want to look at this life inquiring, who is he? How did He do the marvelous things He accomplished? And as we see the wonderful qualities that went to make up His character, we too, humbly and reverently draw the torn threads of that great fabric of personality, and weave them into our own souls, and obtain a destiny. That is why Christ's life has a great appeal, why it will always be the source of personal power and influence, comfort, peace, strength and security to men, because He lived our lives in His way, showing us we may try to live His life in our poor way.
Here is something interesting. It is a new light upon the Christ. In a book recently published is this little picture. I do not know how trustworthy it is, how much we may accept of it as being reliable. It is called "The Archko Volume." Here is the latest report to Tiberius Caesar, Emperor of Rome:
"Among the various rumors that came to my ears there was one in particular that attracted my attention. A young man, it was said, had appeared in Galilee preaching with a noble unction a new law in the name of the God that had sent him. At first I was apprehensive that his design was to stir up the people against the Romans, but my fears were soon dispelled. Jesus of Nazareth spoke rather as friend of the Romans than of the Jews. One day in passing by the place of Siloe, where there was a great concourse of people, I observed in the midst of the group a young man who was leaning against a tree, calmly addressing the multitude. I was told it was Jesus. This I could easily have suspected, so
712
great was the difference between him and those listening to him. His golden-colored hair and beard gave to his appearance a celestial aspect. He appeared to be about thirty years of age. Never have I seen a sweeter or more serene countenance. What a contrast between him and his hearers, with their black beards and tawny complexions!"
ANY noble character which arouses the admiration of men must possess certain well known qualities in proper proportion and degree. First there must be calmness, majesty, self possession. There must be cleanliness too, for sin is repulsive, and creates distrust, but where there is cleanliness there is confidence and respect. There must be refinement. He must be a gentleman or a gentlewoman to direct and arouse the admiration of people. To be a gentleman, to be refined, one must look to the welfare of others and not to self. There must be in proper proportion and balance all the elements that go to make up a man, the exquisite quality of tenderness, yes, a womanlike quality of tenderness. One that can say, when the crowd was tearing little children away from Him, "Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven." Purity, "He that looketh upon a woman to lust after her hath already committed adultery within his heart." Strength. No weak man will hold the admiration of men, and particularly of women. Women love strong men. Look at this man, alone, without friends or support, with His closest associates denying and betraying Him, deliberately walking into Jerusalem to His own crucifixion. Strength! A person who is admired must be
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tactful. There is nothing so impossible as a stumbling person who lacks that priceless quality called tactfulness. This is a test of tact and loyalty. Subject to Roman power, will He be loyal to the Jews or the Romans. Is it right to pay tribute to Caesar? You are of the House of Judah, the reigning house of Israel, is it right to pay tribute to Caesar? Notice the tactful reply. Taking a coin, looking at the inscription on the same He said, "Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and unto God the things that are God's."
Courage: The cleansing of the Temple; Sincerity: The parable of the Pharisee and the Publican. The quality of Mercy: The woman caught in adultery. Everybody was prepared to execute her without trial, for an adulterer was worthy of death, and they had the stones gathered with which to stone her to death, a most brutal manner of public execution. Jesus sat down on the sand, and with His finger wrote some figures in the sand, and this is what He wrote: "Let him who is without sin cast the first stone at her." He went on writing, but did not look up. In a few minutes they had all passed by. "Woman, where are thine accusers." "They have all gone." "Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more." What beautiful mercy! What a tactful approach!
Self Respect: A man who has not self respect will not be respected by others. "Beware," said they, "Herod will get you." "You go and tell that old fox that I do miracles today, but it cannot be that a prophet die out of Jerusalem, I suppose that I will have to meet the fate of the other prophets.
Will-power: A wishy-washy man
RELIEF SOCIETY
never did command respect and esteem, but a man who can stand by his convictions, assuming that they be right, must have will-power. Consider Him in the Temptation! Behold Him standing in the green shades of Gethsemane, where the victory was won before He was raised upon the Cross. The great moral and spiritual struggle had been thought out and won because of His will-power to do the thing He knew He should do and consummate that sacred life. You and I have these problems every day in one form or another, of course in lesser degree.
A man who is lawless and disobedient to the higher laws will not stand as an ideal and as a potential power in society. "I came to do the will of my father." Note the beautiful contrition of heart. In another place, "I do nothing that I have not seen my Father do," reaching into realms beyond human comprehension.
A man without compassion will not hold human imagination and reverence. Behold Him feeding the multitude by the performance of a miracle. "We only have a few loaves and fishes." Never mind, set them around in an orderly manner and they will be fed. Five thousand were fed, and when they gathered up the fragments, they had more left over than they had to begin with.
A man will never hold the admiration of men who is intolerant, narrow-minded, bigoted, or fanatical. Christ had the quality of tolerance strongly developed in His philosophy. The people said, "Why the blind are made to see, the deaf to hear, the dumb to speak, the sick are healed, and even the devils are subject unto him." What did He say? What vision came into His great mind, reaching far into Eternity? "Rejoice not that devils are subject
CONFERENCE
713
unto you, for I behold Satan, as lightning, cast down from Heaven." Sorrow, pathos, pity, tolerance for the disobedience of man. He turns from them in his misery, "Rather rejoice that your names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life, in that Satan is made subject to you."
Poise: Behold Him in Gethsemane with Judas kissing Him on the cheek. He could stand that betrayal kiss, and a multitude came with staves and swords to arrest Him. He said, "I was teaching in the temple and you could have taken me any time, why these swords and staves." See what power comes from purity and innocence! When Peter drew his sword and smote off the servant's ear, note the Master's perfect poise, "Peter put up thy sword, for they that live by the sword shall perish by it." Then Christ replaced the severed member upon the head of the poor servant, performing His last miracle.
His sense of values: The souls of men are of the highest value. "What profiteth a man though he gain the whole world and lose his own soul." The souls of men He came to save, not to destroy.
A proud and haughty man is never esteemed. Christ was the sample of humility and meekness. Lord of Lords, and King of Kings, He threw off His robe, put a towel around His loins, bent down on His knees and washed the dusty feet of the Twelve Apostles then said, "Let him who would be greatest among you be the servant of all."—Humility!
A lazy man is never admired. He must be industrious in some worthy undertaking. At eight or twelve, "Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" He was at work all the time. He was ambitious, He was industrious.
Another quality is that of loyalty
714
—loyalty to His friends, loyalty to God. "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends."
He showed His faith, His courage, His will-power and His patience. In the great temptation at the beginning of His ministry there was the invaluable experience of self revelation, of self discovery, without which He could not have met the crisis in Gethsemane; one was but a preparation for the other. When that fearful crisis came three and a half years later, He said, "Oh Father, I am sorrowful even unto death, but come with me, do not forsake me altogether, stay here while I pray." Going off a little distance he prayed, "Oh Father, if it be possible let this cup of bitterness pass from me." He knew He could triumph by the aid of His Father. When He returned to His Apostles they had fallen asleep, and He said, "Could ye not keep awake long enough to be with me." He passed through an ordeal which you and I perhaps will never understand. Even He, the Son of God, with devotion and consecration. In severe pain and anguish of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
soul while He was on the Cross He said, "Eli Eli Lama Sabachani," which is to say, "My God, My God, why hast Thou forsaken me." Giving His life for the benefit of others, Satan demanding the price of sin, which is death, and He was without sin, but upon him rested the burden of human sin, and He felt for the moment that He was forsaken of God, His dearest, most steadfast friend. But how. Gloriously He came back, all power is given unto Him both in Heaven and on earth. "Go ye therefore and teach all men, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. Lo I am with you always even unto the end."
Sisters, mothers, in whose hands is placed the stuff out of which immortal souls are made, you mothers should rear and train your children, and train the mothers of future children. May you hold these beautiful qualities of character, as you are doing, close to their hearts, and draw from them strength and power to consummate the glorious work you are doing unto God's favor and approval, I humbly pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
THEOLOGY DEPARTMENT Annie Wells Cannon, Chairman
ON THIS WE BUILD Cora L. Bennion, Member of General Board
JESUS said: "I am the way, the truth and the life, no man cometh unto the Father but by me."—John 14:6. His teachings show that His aim was to deliver men from the effects of wrong beliefs and motives, and wrong habits of living and restore them to complete physical, mental, moral and spiritual health, "that they might know the truth and the truth might make them free."
The Prophet Joseph Smith, like Paul of old, enjoyed Heavenly visions. He was sensitive to the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. With Paul he might well have said, "For I neither received it (the Gospel) of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ."
We are greatly blessed as Latter-day Saints to know the truth, not only by reading and tradition, but by revelation, and upon this faith and this testimony we can build our lives.
The Prophet Joseph was not only in-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
terested in the spiritual welfare of the people, but equally so in their health and happiness. He combined the spiritual and practical phases of man's life by elevating the temporal and practical into the realm of the spiritual and letting spirituality permeate the so-called temporal side of life. In this spirit he said, "Seek learning even by study and also by faith."
The Word of Wisdom called by many a temporal commandment is likewise spiritual. Those who live the Word of Wisdom merely for health's sake, are misinterpreting its deepest meaning. Those who will live it, not only for health but that they "shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures," and to develop self-control, moral strength, a finer home life, an exemplary civic life, and to get close to their Father in Heaven, will, alone, find its true meaning.
In our interesting institution called "Fast Day" we find a two-fold purpose, the one to increase humility and a prayerful spirit through self-denial, and the other to give of one's means to feed and clothe the needy. The finest experience on Fast Day is open to those who will both humble themselves and give.
Our Church
715
Security program is another illustration of the desire of the leaders of our Church, acting in harmony with the philosophy of Mormonism, to care for both the spiritual and practical needs of our people.
To care for the every-day physical needs, that is the practical phase of it. The spiritual and moral side is equally important and equally stressed. We wish to preserve and reestablish the spirit of work, of independence and of initiative. We want also to cultivate the Christ-like virtues of sacrifice, self-giving and love of neighbor among our people, and without doubt this worthy enterprise will succeed to the extent that we can cultivate both the spiritual ideals involved, and administer efficiently, the practical problem of relief.
When the Prophet Joseph, under the inspiration of God, organized the Relief Society, he had this two-fold purpose in mind—to care for the material needs of the people, and to develop the sisters spiritually through channels of love and human sympathy and service, and through this service spirituality would come to them from God.
THE INFLUENCE OF THE CHRIST ON THE MODERN WORLD Dr. Sidney B. Sperry
THERE are three great civilizations of the past, which have influenced our western world: the Hebrew, the Greek, and the Roman. Most historians are agreed that the Hebrew civilization gave to our Western culture its greatest blessing, a wonderful literature which we have in the Bible, the prophets who were harbingers of Jesus Christ, and the Christ Himself. The other civilizations have contributed certain influences and ideals that are Christlike to a degree. The Greeks have given art, their wonderful literature, sculpture, painting and science; the Romans have given us government and law.
I wish to point out, however, that our Western world, which I have nominally called Christian, is in very great peril. The ideals of Christ are rapidly being endangered in the world and it is for the teachers of the Church to become definitely aware, of these far-reaching and subtle forces that are tending to break down our present civilization.
716
Aubrey, one of the great thinkers, has pointed out that our Western civilization is confronted with three great weaknesses: lack of direction, lack of motivation, and poor morale. In respect to the first, lack of direction, the author says: "It is apparent that we have lost any clear sense of direction. There is new need for this sense of direction in modern life. The traditional external authorities like the Church, the Bible, the Family, and the State have lost much of their hold upon our thinking. Coupled with this has been the growth of democratic individualism which by its nature has tended towards anarchistic breakdown of common presuppositions as to the direction which life should take. This has been further accentuated by the spread of science and of the sense of complexity. Education might be defined as a feeling for complexity; for it is the task of analytic thought to make many problems out of one, to break up each problem into its component parts. The result of all this is that modern man is bewildered by the loss of any clear unified goal."
Of the second, lack of motivation, he says: "We are weak in our devotion to the values that we do see. This is the problem of motivation which is so perplexing to the educator." I believe we all realize that this is a just criticism of present-day tendencies.
Of poor morale he says: "The third fundamental weakness in contemporary Western culture is that we have lost our morale. We have lost faith in the inherited ideas about the objectives of life. The accepted puritan virtues of honesty, industry, and frugality are seen to be significant mainly for an era of economic production. But for the first time in human history we are facing
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
a situation in which we are able through modern technology to produce more than we need."
That is a rather sombre picture of our present day tendencies, but this thinker is not the only one who believes that way. Latter-day Saints, of course, know that the Church has not altogether escaped the troubles of past civilizations. As Latter-day Saints we understand that the fulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ was taken away from the world, but that our Western civilization has not fallen completely away from the teachings of the Christ given to His Apostles of old.
THE immediate and momentous question before the world is what sort of civilization we shall aim to achieve; whether it shall be patterned after the ideals of the Christianity of the Gospels, or developed along other lines. Do we want a Christian world or not? This has become the momentous question before our age because the ethical ideals of Christianity have been challenged in recent years as never before in the history of Western civilization and pagan views of life have been openly advocated. The trend in Western thought as a whole for several years immediately prior to the breaking out of the Great War was unquestionably away from Christian ideals. "While this fact was appreciated by practically all careful students of Western civilization, whether they were sympathetic with Christian ideals or not, yet the Christian church as a whole, and especially its leaders, remained strangely blind to the matter."
It is always pleasant to be able to say nice things to people, things that tickle their ears, but I take it, that as Relief Society sisters and teachers
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
who are acquainted with the needs of our times, we shall have the strength and the courage to face the problems before us.
We can scarcely pick up a newspaper these days without seeing the results of the wrong application of Western ideals, or Western culture, on other nations who are not nominally Christian. As Christian people we have learned to use the methods of science to produce war materials and have taught other people than our own how to use death-dealing missiles and weapons for the destruction of human life.
Nor is this the only part of the sombre picture which might be painted of the present situation in Christendom. We have right in our midst teachers and students with remarkable influence, with ability to write, who are filling the newspapers and magazines with propaganda, supposedly scientific, but which to a true Latter-day Saint can mean nothing more or less than an attack upon the fundamental principles which Christ taught. In the lessons which you are to study for the coming year many of these problems are pointed out.
Many of our so-called Christian men and women have attempted to indicate to their students the fact that Christ in reality was not the Son of God, that He was not born of the Virgin Mary, that He did not perform great miracles as our Gospel records, but rather He was a man somewhat like the rest of us, that He was not divine, and that by a study of history we can explain in ordinary terms all of His so-called miracles, and all of the so-called supernatural which is found in the New Testament.
If these teachings, which are so prevalent are allowed to penetrate the body of this Church, we shall then, as a Church, be faced with a problem the like of which we have
717
never known before. The persecution of the early leaders of the Church will be nothing compared to the damage that can be done by the permeation of these teachings into our theological system.
As teachers you should become acquainted with what the world is teaching with respect to the Christ. Our Church has no place for any teaching which says that Jesus was not the Son of God, that He did not show great miracles unto men and unto His Apostles while He was here in the flesh. I take it the day will come when this little body of men and women known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be almost the only real defenders of Christianity in existence. Outside of our faith however, there are yet many faithful men and women who still have a Christ-like spirit, who are still trying to do the things which they think are in accordance with the doctrines of Christ.
I HAVE given you the warning, now I want to give you just a little hope. The prophets of old warned Israel of the dangers that she was in, yet they held out to her a message of hope. From some of our thinkers in respect to the influence which the Christ has had upon them, I should like to quote Professor Walter Marshall, who says:.
"Step by step, not knowing whither he went nor what the outcome would be, he followed the guidance of the Spirit in the pursuit of his mission of deliverance, until it led him to a death whose meaning and necessity he did not himself fully understand, save that it was the cup which his Father had given him to drink. The remark has sometimes been made that the world has yet to see what God can do with a man wholly surrendered to his Will. The world has seen; Jesus was that man.
718
"With the clear perception of the human limitations of the mind of Jesus there has come a new and profounder estimation of his person and work. No longer is he mainly to us the Master Teacher, into whose words must somehow be read the sum of all wisdom. Nor is he mainly the Great Example, who 'went about doing good' in a manner that we should endeavor to imitate. He still commands our respect as the greatest of all religious teachers, and our love as an incomparable friend to man; but he commands our awe and adoration as the One through whom God worked the greatest and most decisive of all His mighty acts, which turned the course of history and founded a new race of men. For us as for St. Paul, the appropriate name for him is not Rabbi, or Good Master, but Savior."
That is a striking tribute to the influence of Christ, from one of the most noted thinkers of our day.
I shall give you another illustration: "Jesus, then, was the herald of a new day in human culture—a day in which the patterns for conduct among men shall be taken from the love, gentleness, and mutual service which are exemplified by the primary groups of men when at their best. Even though he was only a herald, he, more than anyone else, must be said to have first set definitely the patterns of a true civilization opposed to the predatory patterns of barbarian culture....
"Paul, who must surely be reckoned among the great thinkers of antiquity, gave it as his conviction for his day, 'Other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.' A recent English writer speaking of the present tendencies in science has declared: 'The attitude of serious thinkers is totally different from what it was thirty years ago.... If anyone were
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to declare that the dominant school of philosophy in the near future would be definitely theistic, and even explicitly Christian, it would not appear too bold a prophecy to be realized.'"
One more tribute: "The vision which Jesus had of a social life based upon love or good will is not an unrealizable dream, It is the only possible social future if the world is not going to turn back to barbarism. Men have never intelligently tried to realize it in their social life. Instead they have been satisfied with various cheap substitutes in the form of theological beliefs which have diverted their attention from the true. Problems of the religious life or with formal pretensions which have thinly disguised their underlying paganism."
I like to believe that the power of the Christ, even when the authority of the Priesthood and the ordinances of the Gospel in their fulness were not upon the earth, has nevertheless permeated the spirit of men all down through the ages since His death. As I look back upon the course of human history in the past few hundred years, I can but feel that it is the Christ who inspired the great men of the Reformation, John Wycliffe, and others. When Wycliffe, who was a priest and teacher of his day, stated that he would translate the Bible so that the peasant might know more about it than the Pope of Rome, I believe that the spirit and the influence of the Christ was upon him, preparing the world for a better day, for a modern day. Forty years after Wycliffe's death his bones were dug up and burned and thrown into the Severn River. Someone has said that as they went from the river to the sea, and from the sea to the ocean, so the spirit of the Christ has permeated, to some extent, the whole
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
world. I like to think that Tyndale. At a later day was inspired of God, that he had a Christ-like spirit when he fled from persecution in England over to Germany and there translated the New Testament, and shipped his Bibles into England in barrels; that it was the spirit of Christ which was bringing about a new era. When Tyndale was betrayed,—just before he was strangled and burned at the stake he said, "Oh God, open the King of England's eyes." Less than three years after his death the King of England's eyes were opened, and the very Bible which Tyndale had helped to translate was published and put into the English churches.
I like to think that the period of the Renaissance, and the period of enlightenment, were inspired by the spirit of the Christ working upon men, preparing them for the ushering in of a new day, in which we live. I like to feel that the great Reformers, Luther, Zwingli, Huss and others had that Christ-like spirit that made it possible for a Joseph Smith, for a Brigham Young, and a Heber J. Grant, to do their work in this modern world.
WHILE traveling in Europe I visited the art galleries and museums where I saw the beautiful paintings and sculpture in France, Germany, Belgium and England. There I saw the influence of the Christ as it affected men of superb genius, who turned their paint brushes to the canvas, to place on it an expression. Of their innermost thoughts which had to do with the Christ. Men are seeking to preserve the beautiful works that have captured and expressed the inner spirit of geniuses down through the ages, and which have been produced under the influence of the spirit of the Christ. We like to preserve marvelous masterpieces of sculpture be-
719
cause they illustrate the finest aspirations of the human spirit insofar as they can be transferred to stone, and it was essentially the religious spirit under which they were produced.
We have our great works of literature revealing the influence of the Christ. What would Shakespeare be had he not been permeated with the spirit of the Old and New Testaments, with the spirit of life as he saw it portrayed in these works? Most men who are authorities upon the subject have paid tribute to the influence of the Christ as one of the greatest literary figures of all time. What would Milton's works have been without the Christ—"Paradise Lost," "Paradise Regained," those masterpieces of literature would never have been written. What would Tennyson, Lowell, Browning and others be had they not had uppermost in their minds the fact that the influence of Christ is still in the world, and that it is a marvelous power?
We do not realize quite, the tremendous and lasting influence of the Christ upon the common things of our daily life. I see the influence of the Christ upon certain great scientists of our age, when they can leave their busy laboratories where they are attempting to discover the secrets of nature, and come before groups of men and women and pay tribute to the fact that they can still be religious and scientific at the same time, that the spirit of Christianity is behind them.
I would advise you teachers to read "The Life of Louis Pasteur," the great French scientist, by Rene Vallery-Rodot, and see the influence the Christ can have upon a man not of our Church, to be true, but yet it permeated his very soul as he went into his laboratory in his endeavors to find a remedy for the sicknesses and afflictions that were besetting men on every hand. The 720 serums, the vaccines, all of the modern remedies that we have to help lengthen human life and alleviate human suffering have in general been produced by men who were men of faith and who had a Christ-like spirit. That is the spirit of Christianity. Professor Scott, one of our noted thinkers has said this: "Christianity has ever been creating for itself a new body. When we compare it as it is now with what it was at the beginning, there seems to be much truth in the contention that it is no longer the religion of Jesus, but a new religion, made up of contributions from unnumbered sources in the course of two thousand years. But there has always been something that was inherent in itself. All that it has borrowed has been transformed and quickened by this revelation given once for all through Jesus Christ." I WONDER if, as Latter-day Saints, we have realized the fact that the experimental method which is widespread in our scientific thinking is the very thing which permeated the teachings of Jesus Christ! One thinker says: "The whole method of his teaching was pragmatic.... He asked no man to accept his truth without investigation. His appeal was always to faith, never to blind submission. He urged men always to accept his truth tentatively— to take it at first only as an experimental hypothesis. Let them try it out; let them begin to live and act as if God, for example, were such a Father as Jesus described, and see if it works. Jesus staked His whole teaching on this appeal to the venture of faith. Men are asked to trust him enough to try out his ideas. He is absolutely confident that the outcome will be the certainty that he has the very truth of God." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE We need the experimental method in our Christianity, in our Church, that we shall actually try out, experiment with what Jesus has said, and He will back up all that He has said if we will only make the experiment, if we will only live our religion as He has urged us to do. Professor Denny says: "'Jesus is the world's greatest expert in the field of religion; that is, in the search * for God and the ultimate meaning of human life. That is His authority. He is not coercive, but challenging. He does not lay down rules; He invites experiment. His influence in History, wherever He has really been tried, is such as to entitle Him an honest hearing and a fair trial. That is all He asks. He says, 'Come and see.' His only comptaint is 'Ye will not come unto me that ye may have life' " You will notice in Christ's method of teaching and impressing others, that while he talked to multitudes, it was a very small number, with whom he was very confidential. There were only a few of his intimate disciples and apostles upon whom He attempted to put the stamp of His Personality and to confide the secrets and the mysteries of the Kingdom of God, and these spirits upon whom He stamped His Personality were both receptive and retentive by their loving response to Him through personal intimacy and life-giving experiences. CHRIST, unlike most men, could ~ love people not only for what they were, but for what they could be. If I may carry that thought just a little farther, when we go into an orchard in the early Summer-time, we see many apples. These apples are green, and we have no particular desire for them, but do we throw them aside simply because we cannot RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE eat them at the present time? Let these apples develop in the light and heat of the sun, and in due course of time you will have magnificent fruit that can be eaten and enjoyed and whose agreeable aroma will fill a room. So it is with human souls, as teachers representing the Christ, let us love our fellowmen and those whom we contact, for what they may be as well as for what they are. 721 Christ's influence is still in the world, although the forces of evil are attempting to prevail against it, and as Latter-day Saints we have this precious knowledge, and we have this high resolve that the Spirit of the Christ shall yet, in the years to come, permeate this old world, and rejuvenate it and make it beautiful that there may be happiness and peace and contentment! LITERARY DEPARTMENT Emeline Y. Nebeker, Chairman LESSON ENRICHMENT Professor Harrison R. Merrill Emily Dickinson says: "There is no frigate like a book To take us lands away, Nor any coursers like a page Of prancing poetry This traverse may the poorest take Without oppress of toll, How frugal is the chariot That bears a human soul." N our literary lessons this winter | we are to use "Star of the West," by Ethel Hueston; "Log Cabin Lady," Anonymous; "The Romance of an Old Playhouse," by George D. Pyper. Someone has said that literature is the adequate expression in words of the meaning of life. Others have said that literature is the soul history of a race, that is, we have secular history which tells of the actions of men, but literature tells of their thoughts, their philosophies, their soul aspirations, Biography is a phase of literature. In it we are supposed to get a picture of the person under discussion, and presumably the person is very much worth knowing. Perhaps I should say not only the person but the personality this time, since we are using as one of the biographies "The Romance of an Old Playhouse." If you should like to read something about the new biography, read an article by that name "A New Biography," by George Alexander Johnston, which will be found in the "Atlantic Monthly" for March, 1929. HE Star of the West is a grand romance, authentic in the main, however, do not lose sight of the fact that Mrs. Hueston frankly states that she has romanticized and dramatized the story a little in order to add to its interest. She had in her possession two or three of the journals which were kept by members of the Lewis and Clark Expedition, and she went over the entire trail taken by that historic band more than one hundred years ago. While on the ground, she tells us, where some of these things were jotted down in the journals, she attempted to picture in her mind exactly what occurred, and from what these men wrote she also attempted to make up conversation which would carry on the ideas. I think if you read the book carefully you will be able to detect these places where Mrs. Hueston has taken these liberties. 722 Regarding lesson enrichment for this book: First, I would favor using a map. In order to try this out myself, I drew a map copied from the fly leaf of the book. I drew it in large scale, so large that a group of sisters in a meeting could easily see the trail of the Lewis and Clark Expedition. On the map I suggested the Louisiana Purchase, because that was the reason for the Expedition. It might be well to have somebody in the class, discuss the Louisiana Purchase. It was a tremendous undertaking at that time to go from St. Louis on the Missouri River over to the Pacific Ocean. When our attention is called to the fact that no white man had ever been over that territory, it begins to assume historic proportions. Some material things representing Indian life could be brought to the class, a costume such as Sacagawea might have used, a baby board like one in which her little Pomp might have been carried, a pair of moccasins, a bowl or basket—all of these things add to the interest. In every Ward there are women who have been personally acquainted with Indians. It might be a good idea to bring in some of these people and from them get a personal knowledge of the Indian characters. Mrs. Hueston has made much of the relationship of Sacagawea to Captain Clark. She worshiped him and he recognized her nobility of soul. In closing the discussion on the book, I would like to mention the controversy which has arisen over her death. Grace Hebard, who is a very good historian at the University of Wyoming, has done a great deal of work on Sacagawea. She came to the conclusion a few years ago that Sacagawea grew to be an old woman, and went to the Wind River Reservation in Wyoming, and there died after she was eighty years old. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE When Mrs. Hebard published that account it was pretty well accepted, but since that day other journals and accounts have been found, and Mrs. Hueston seems to be more nearly correct. According to her book Sacagawea died at the age of about twenty-five, soon after the close of the expedition. It is known that Sacagawea was born on the Salmon River. A monument is erected to her memory at her birthplace. The Lewis and Clark Expedition came over into Idaho from Montana, down Agency Creek near the spot where Fort Limhi now stands. THE "Log Cabin Lady," is a very small book written anonymously. If you take two lessons on the book you could read the very choicest pages from "Log Cabin Lady." Any Pioneer mother could have been the subject of this book. It offers a grand opportunity for all to become acquainted with our own Log Cabin Ladies. The message of the book is that no matter where we turn, if we are to live well in this world, we need to know some things. It is easier to understand races if one understands the psychology of their customs. Social amenities are too often neglected in America, our manners are sometimes truthfully called crude, and one of the things that we hope will come from the study of this book is a little more attention to the customs which are called correct. For lesson enrichment of this book I had in mind spending a little time considering social forces. A panel discussion might be arranged with the book as the basis. One thing is noticeable, a very cultured person like Queen Victoria or Gladstone really does know how to meet people. One of the finest marks of culture is RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE manifest when a very cultured person meets an uncultured one, and despite the shortcomings, treats that perscn as an equal. I think that thought is beautifully brought out, and the sisters can well make use of it. I was much impressed with the latter part of the book because the author thinks that the West must be called upon to save America. OME might wonder why we should select the biography of an. Old Playhouse instead of a person. It is because we looked upon the Old Playhouse as being, if not a person, at least a glorious personality, and one most important in the training of the men and women of Zion. We have Brother George D. Pyper, General Superintendent of the Sunday School, once manager of the Old Playhouse and author of the book, with us today. He is one of those souls with whom the Lord was very liberal. The Lord, first of all, made him a wonderful man, with a tender heart. He made him artistic of soul; He presented him with an exquisite tenor voice; He gave him good judgment. He was an ideal manager of the Old Playhouse. GeorcE D. Pyper T have a heart full of gratitude to President Heber J. Grant for appointing me nearly forty years ago to manage the Old Playhouse, and for the thirty years I was manager President Grant stood by me in the direction of that theatre. I felt an obligation to the community to tell the story. The manuscript of the book was written between the hours of 12 o'clock midnight and two o'clock in the morning. After the turmoil and excitement of managing, it came as arest tome. I wrote the book, as it were, on the spot, and from memoranda collected over a period of twenty years. 723 I have in my home the beautiful oil painting given to me by Lee Greene Richards, the artist. This forms the frontispiece of the book. I have often sat in front of it looking up at the old picture, memories flooding through my mind, for "There are moments of life that we never orget Which brighten and brighten as time steals away, ney give a new charm to the happiest ot, And they shine on the gloom of the rainiest day." In reading the story of the Old Playhouse, I hope you will call to mind, and have in reverent thought, the players, how they made our people happy, through their fine contribution to cultural development. This will bring from the lines of that old book something that will' stay with you. Most of the people who took part in those early days have passed away, and "When I remember all my friends so linked together Who passed away in good or stormy weather, I feel like one who treads alone a banquet hall deserted, Whose lights are fled, and garlands shed And all but him departed." Proressor Harrison R. MERRILL Brother Pyper has been very helpful in including in the book the photographs of many of the important actors who performed in the Old Playhouse, among them President Brigham Young when he was an actor. When you read the book you not only get the picture of a playhouse but of people, who regarded the Playhouse as Henry Miller did, "A Cathedral in the Desert." Imagine the long stretch of desert between the Mississippi River and the Pacific Ocean—the land of the coyote, sage brush, lizard, Indians, trappers, with just a few people with a love 724 in their hearts for the finer things of life, and then springing up as if it were planted by God Himself, this old temple, erected to art. You get some idea of what the old Salt Lake Theatre meant in those days. In every Ward there will be sisters who have known the Old Playhouse through personal attendance there, and it would enrich the lesson to have some of these sisters tell about the Playhouse and their experiences with it. Even though the Old Playhouse was erected in Pioneer days the foresight was so excellent that few companies found difficulty in presenting their offerings on its stage, which was adequate for even modern performances of the most stupendous kind. "The Lady of Lyons" was one of the first plays presented on the old Salt Lake Theatre stage. It will be presented this coming year at the B. Y. U. Leadership Week, and I suggest it as a means of enrichment in your communities. Nearly every community has its own dramatic club. Why not turn back the pages of history and present "The Lady of Lyons," or some of the other plays which are available. Some good dramatic leader could read extracts from plays. On the opening night, President Young's favorite song, "Hard Times Come Again No More," was sung. The revival of that old song during this year might be interesting. Nearly always in those days, in addition to the regular plays, a farce or comedy was presented at the close. It would be very easy to resurrect some of these farces and present them in your own Wards. I would like to see this a sort of Jubilee year for the Old Playhouse. There is also an opportunity for instrumental music. Brother Pyper has named many of the selections RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE played by the orchestra. It would be very helpful to have some of these early-day pieces played. Shakespeare was always one of the most popular dramatists presented in the old Salt Lake Theatre, because it was a high-class playhouse, and the management catered to unusually fine things. In some of the light operas Brother Pyper himself appeared in the leading role. Many of the light operas and a few of the grand operas have been sung in the Old Playhouse. This fact gives you a magnificent range of material from which to choose for the enrichment of your lessons. When you finish the book, I believe that you will like Joseph Smith a little better than you ever did before, for behind the Old Playhouse, as behind all things in the Church, stands Joseph Smith. You will like Brigham Young a little better, because you will be able to see the artistic side of his nature. Besides being a great builder of buildings, and of cities, he was also a great builder of souls, and always encouraged drama, opera, and the finer things of life. You will know and love a little better all the leaders of the Church, including President Grant, who was always a supporter of the old Salt Lake Theatre. You will learn to know and love a great many other men and women who stood for culture among the Latter-day Saints, and out of it all, I am sure, will come a spiritual uplift as you become acquainted with these fine things. If you have as much fun studying this course, as I had in writing it, it indeed will be a glorious year. SOCIAL SERVICE DEPT. Jennie B. Knight, Chairman The address of Harold T. Christensen on "Why Study Sociology" will be printed in the December lssue of the Relief Society Magazine. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 725 OFFICERS' MEETING THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1937 OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison WE welcome you here this morning, and hope you are enjoying the Conference. The Membership Cards for 1938 are ready for distribution. If you will call at the office for the number you will require, we shall be happy to supply them without cost to you. The new four-year Record Books will soon be ready for you. An order blank will be sent to each Stake for you to indicate the number of Ward Record books you will require. We earnestly desire all Stakes and Wards, as well as the larger Branches, to begin the 1938 records in the new books. May we impress upon the Stake, Ward and Branch Presidents, the grave responsibility of caring for the Record Books when closed on December 31, 1937. The Secretaries have given long hours of service keeping these valuable records. If there is a vault in the Ward Chapel, see that the book is placed in it. If there is no place in the Ward, the Stake House vault may be used. As there are some Stakes where no provision is made for keeping safe these precious records, we have permission to store them in the vaults of the Presiding Bishop's office. We think you had better keep them for a year after they are completed, then, if you have no place in which to safely store them, please send them to the Presiding Bishop's Office. It is, however, not as convenient for you if you want to look over any of the back records, but do take care of them, because they are most valuable. When a new chapel is to be built, use your influence to have ample vault space for storing records. We have the books bound for four years' record, but later, if there is a new organization in your Stake, we can have them bound for three years, or two years, or one year, so that the whole Church can begin at the same time with a new four-year record. We have had, during the last year, some very unfortunate experiences because there has been no audit made. We have spoken of this before, but please every one of you pay attention to the audit. It would require very little time for the Ward or Stake Clerks to go over your accounts when you make your annual reports. If they would audit them, find how much money there is in the bank, and put their O. K. On them, a great deal of sorrow would be averted. Please be careful about it, and if necessary, pay for an auditor to go over the books, especially before they are turned over to a new officer, We hope you are keeping an account of the number of inactive members who have become active. We feel that one inactive member becoming active is as valuable as two new members. I hope you are working on your inactive rolls. A year ago we permitted you to pay Annual Dues for your active and honorary members, and credit you 100%, but this does not relieve you from the responsibility of trying to get the inactive members on your active roll. PEAKING of Annual Dues, we appreciate greatly the efforts made by our Stake Officers in sending in their dues last year. There was a small decrease, but we think 726 it was wonderful of you sisters when you were relieved of this greater responsibility, to pay the Annual Dues as fully as you did. A number of our Presidents have asked if they could have their magazine Drive at another period rather than from September 15 to October 15, and permission has been given them to do so. We do urge that you will keep one period, and make that an intensive Magazine Drive, whether July or June. Now that our lessons are beginning to be printed earlier in the year, if an earlier date would be better for your Stakes, we are perfectly willing for you to have this, but please let us know what time you prefer, and do not give up an intensive month's work for your Magazine. Sister Hermana F. Lyon, who has presided over the Netherlands Mission Relief Society, made a wonderful report of the activities of our Dutch sisters regarding Annual Dues. In one branch only two men out of two hundred, were employed, but there was 100% membership dues paid in that branch. The women did handwork, or extra work, but they paid their Annual Dues. Can Relief Society women in our Wards at home fail to make their 100% when the Netherlands' sisters set such an excellent example? WE are a bit disturbed over the report that some of the wards are using Work and Business Day for book reviews. We are not opposed to boek reviews at all, but we are eager to have you keep Work and Business Day in the spirit for which it was instituted, and that is in helping our women become better mothers, and in taking care of the dependent children who need help. There are many Wards in our Church where children could be made more comfortable if we could get the vision of Work and Business RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Meeting. Another activity for which there is a great need, is teaching women to do fine handwork which can -be sold through "Mormon Handicraft," and in this way add to incomes where there is need. It is much better for mothers to remain in the home and care for their small children, than to leave the home and seek employment. This can be accomplished through the medium of "Mormon Handicraft," in cooperation with the director of Work and Business. Much valuable assistance may be obtained from the Agricultural Colleges of each of the States. Mrs. Maycock, Assistant Director for Home Economics for Utah, and Miss Hepworth, of Idaho, have given Relief Society most valuable help through the County Agents and Demonstrators. I feel confident if you sisters will contact the County Demonstrators, or even the State Director of the State in which you live, you will be greatly benefited. Mrs. Mayeock suggests that a committee of possibly three women from each Ward, meet with the Stake Supervisor of Work and Business and have a County Demonstrator instruct them in any phase of better home-making. This is a rare opportunity to learn the newer and better way of doing things. For example, Sister Ivy Hall, demonstrator for Salt Lake County, had on display a baby's dress and slip which were cut on the bias. They were exquisitely dainty, and had the advantage of growing with the baby as there were no straight seams to bind. Members of the General Board have attended demonstrations in Counties where Stake Class Leaders from all Stakes in the County, were in attendance, and we were delighted with the valuable, practical help which was given. Many of our Stakes are taking advantage of this RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE expert instruction in sewing, cooking, canning and drying fruits and vegetables, and in storing vegetables. We feel confident this assistance is obtainable in all the States because of the very willing response to our request for help from the State Health Departments. We acknowledge with sincere appreciation the cooperation and help given to our women by these officials in each State which we contacted. We are greatly interested in the kind of art needlework which our mothers and grandmothers did. For instance, pillow slips trimmed with fine wide crocheted or knitted lace. We have sold many pairs of these, but please remember that we cannot use old or used articles, no matter how lovely they are. We want to encourage the use of local materials if possible, artistic articles made of wood, stone, wool or pottery. E are very happy over the activity of "Mormon Handicraft." Although we discussed with you at April Conference, the advisability of beginning such a venture, the shop was not opened until the middle of June. One hundred thirtyfive women have participated in supplying articles for sale. We have sold for one woman alone, one hundred seventy exquisite aprons. Quilts, pillow slips, knitting bags, aprons, copper bowls and many other lovely articles have been sent all over the United States. Only a few days ago, five elegant quilts were sent to an address on Park Avenue, New York. Up to September fifteenth, 1,348 articles were sold. This figure is exclusive of the home-made candy which is made fresh each day from Utah-Idaho sugar, and is one of our most popular attractions. Three Stakes—Granite, Wasatch and Weber, lead the other Stakes in "'Mormon Handicraft" membership—each Ward in these three Stakes has paid 727 up membership. The Stakes are members also. Membership has been issued to Branches in three Missions —South Carolina District, Southern States; Minneapolis Branch, North Central States Mission and Gebo Branch, Western States Mission. We feel very badly to have to return articles, but there are definite rules of acceptance—every article must be approved by the Stake Work and Business Leader before sending it to the General Board, and every article must be perfectly made,—no unfinished seams or "raw" edges. HERE are a number of Stakes who are having a bit of difficulty about burial clothes. Some of the Stakes are continuing the old custom of making burial clothes free of charge. Sisters, our responsibility is to give service. If a family has been in need of bread and shoes, they certainly will be in need of burial clothes when loved ones die, but Relief Society is not to supply any material things to people who can afford to pay for them. We want burial clothes to be on the same basis as any other part of charity work. Some of our women are working beyond their strength in providing burial clothes, and unfortunately it is often some sister who makes her living with her needle. Please sisters, change this attitude. HERE is a feeling in some of our Stakes that board members are not required to attend Relief Society meetings except when officially appointed. It is the opinion of the General Board that unless Stake Board members attend as many Relief Society meetings as possible, they are not prepared to advise Ward Officers as they should. We are thanking 99% of our Stake Presidents who make such excellent preparation for our Stake Conferences. We do not want you to be over-burdened, but we do feel 728 it is necessary for you to make proper arrangements for your meetings. When we go to a meeting early in the morning and find the door locked, and the key mislaid, or when we go into the Relief Society room and find some other organization there, and we have to walk to the stake office a block away, it disturbs the spirit of our meetings. This suggestion is just for the one, and not for the ninety-nine who do things so beautifully. We would like to hear from you Stake Presidents who have Church Security supplies which have been left on hand for along time. If you have clothing that is stored in makeshift places, we can help you if you will let us know. Be accurate about the amount you have. Last year one of our Stakes reported they had 1,000 pounds of dried fruit, and when the Church Security made requisition for it, the Stake President could only find 200 pounds. It was a bit embarrassing. We are still asking you to help those women who are not good homemakers, and we are still asking you not to let the Ward know what you are doing. Do keep the confidence of those whom you are assisting. WE are asking, too, that you sisters consider Relief Society work your first obligation, next, of course, to your family. Last year there was complaint about the Cancer Control. Sisters, we thank you for what you did, but we think you did altogether too much. We wanted our women to have this educational RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE program, and suggested having the visiting teachers take this material into the homes, but some of our women took the whole responsibility of the campaign. It is a most worthy cause, and what you can do for it, without making it burdensome, will be appreciated. Peace is another subject in which we are vitally interested. A few men are trying to plunge the whole world into destruction, and every woman must stand for peace. In the study of our literary book "Star of the West'? We have an excellent opportunity to create a favorable attitude toward the Indians. Those of us who believe in the Book of Mormon, can help bring about the fulfilment of the prophecy that the descendants of Lehi would become a white and delightsome people. WANT to leave my love and blessings with you wonderful sisters. When the roll is being called I listen to hear your voices, and look eagerly to see you stand. I could not have a greater thrill when my own children come to see me than I do when meeting you wonderful women who are so earnestly serving those whose burdens are too heavy for them to bear alone. I pray that you will be blessed; that your homes and your Wards will feel your influence: that you will have those wonderful attributes which were pointed out to us yesterday morning—the Savior's attributes. This is the only way we can help our Father's children. May His blessing and His peace be with you, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND ACTIVE MEMBERS BY 1942 Janet M. Thompson—M ember of General Board N 1916 the total membership of Relief Society was 43,894. For the year ending December, 1936, the total membership was 73,062. These figures indicate that within the past twenty years there has been an in- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE crease in membership of 29,168— approximately 1,458 new members annually, An enrollment of 100,000 active members by 1942 would mean an increase in membership of 26,938 within the next four and one-half years—approximately 5,986 new members per year. If each member would be willing to assume the responsibility of enrolling one new active member within the next four and one-half years, the total membership would far exceed our expectations. There is a fertile field to draw from. In stakes only, there are 127,248 families. With Relief Society totaling 59,725 members in stakes, and 13,337 in the missions, we have some idea as to what the future promises. It might be of interest to give some statistics of various wards: In one large ward there are 544 families. Of this number 160 are represented in Relief Society, with an average attendance of 64. Ina ward of average size—150 families, 52 are represented in Relief Society with an average attendance of 26. In a small ward of 78 families, 36 are represented in Relief Society with an average attendance of 11. Total number of families in these three wards—772; number represented in Relief Society 248, average attendance 101; this indicates less than one-third are represented in Relief Society, that less than onehalf of those enrolled attend regularly. If the records of other wards are comparable to these (we have every reason to believe they are) some consideration should be given to increasing active members. In one ward a certain President keeps accurate check of those not attending. After roll is called, mention is made of those not present and certain individuals are appointed to 729 keep in touch with absentees. This method stimulates attendance. I has been said "A great purpose is magnetic, it attracts resources." If this be true we can attract resources to build the organization, to recruit the ranks and make safe the goal. Some available resources are —Ward Clerks, Inactive Members, Class Leaders, Work and Business Supervisors, Visiting Teachers, Enlistment Committees, Special Program Committees, Ward Conferences, Daughters' Day, Musical Activities, Special Stake Days. It might be well to appoint special chairmen to supervise the work that will necessarily arise. If a division of responsibility is made, it should result in no one person being overworked. The President might prefer to be responsible for contacting the Ward Clerk, the Inactive Members and Visiting Teachers; one Counselor—the Class Leaders, including Work and Business Supervisors, Enlistment Committee, Special Program Committee. Another Counselor might use the Ward Conference, Daughters' Day and Ward Musical Activities for recruiting members. From the Ward Clerk definite information can be obtained as to number of families in ward, number in family, ages, etc. He can also furnish periodically names of new members in the Ward. A definite program for interesting inactive members might be considered—not an intensive one-year program—but one that is extensive, one that will sustain through the years. Class Leaders and Work and Business Supervisors can cooperate by featuring the lessons and work days, by providing special days for guests, by inviting them to assist with programs, by keeping in 730 constant touch with those whom they consider prospective members. Visiting Teachers have a splendid opportunity to recruit the ranks. They can take a very definite message into the home each month— one that will stimulate and help members and non-members to feel the importance of Relief Society. Enlistment Committees can be most helpful in strengthening the ranks. Special Program Committees can accomplish much in interesting nonmembers. Attractive high-class programs usually reach individuals sometimes considered disinterested. Relief Society Ward Conferences are invaluable. Special effort can be put forth at that particular time to bring before the public the real values of Relief Society, to inform them of its many advantages, of benefits to be derived through active participation. Of all our resources probably the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE greatest is Daughters' Day, which provides a rare opportunity to honor another generation—future members —and to acquaint them with Relief Society functions. If a special committee were given the responsibility of planning for this day, preparation could commence early in the year, a check made on number of daughters; with a view to securing as many as possible to participate on the program. A Daughters' Chorus might be used. We cannot over estimate the value of musical activities. Reach the hearts of individuals where nothing else will, for it speaks a universal language, it unites humanity, makes "ordinary living glorious living." Stake Boards can support and strengthen the endeavors of Ward Members. A special Stake party might be held once a year to encourage prospective members—to welcome new members. A _ Stake Daughters' Day might be featured. SCRIPTURAL READING IN THE HOME Nellie O. Parker—Member of General Board HE home project of scriptural reading was intended not only for the members of Relief Society, but also for their families. If children are to be equipped for the future, for a fuller appreciation of life, for leadership in the Church and for the making of effective missionaries, they must be well versed in the Scriptures. One cannot be truly educated without a knowledge of the Bible. It is the greatest book of the civilized world, and has had a greater influence on the lives of people than any other book. It has molded religious beliefs, ethical and moral codes, and laws and relationships to one another. Much of the great art and literature of the world has had its inspiration and source in the Bible. Modern literature abounds with allusions to it, or quotations from it. Parents of former days felt the responsibility of teaching their children the Bible, and insisted on scriptural reading and the learning of many of its passages. For the most part modern children do not receive such training in their homes. They miss the spiritual fortification and soul development, as well as the educational advantages, that such training gives. The home misses being the significant unifying and stabilizing power it should be. This year our project is to read the four Gospels from the New Testament with our families, In study of the life of the Savior and Music can. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE His ministry, there will be a real opportunity to bring to the children the great fundamental truths He taught that they may shape their lives in conformity to these. Only by following His teachings can they experience the complete life, and know of a certainty that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God. In teaching children to understand and enjoy reading the Scriptures, care should be taken to choose those passages that are suitable for their age and experience. A mother who knows her children will know what appeals to them most, and will use that approach to their spiritual feeding. Get the children in a receptive mood, much as Jesus did His listeners. Tell a story or ask questions that will open the way for the consideration of the subject. The value of memorizing important passages should be emphasized. A chapter in its entirety could be learned. Its poetic beauty will create a love for fine literature. Its spiritual content and wisdom will develop and guide the soul. Care should be taken that the personality of the Savior be presented in the right light. Oftentimes children, especially boys, are not attracted to a meek and lowly being who never did any wrong. But they will admire a vigorous, courageous man, whose wisdom saw the truth through the chaff of prevailing customs and beliefs, and who was not afraid to attack insincerity and hypocrisy even when displayed by the high priests and rulers. Young people will glory in His righteous anger when He cleansed the temple of the money changers, as well as in His cleverness in answering those who wished to incriminate Him. When they 731 accused Him of breaking the Sabbath, He answered them by asking "Ts it lawful on the Sabbath Day to do good or to do evil, to save life or to destroy it?" Children will enjoy being shown how appropriately His parables fitted both the people, to whom He was talking and the things He wished to teach and they will also appreciate the literary perfection. The Prodigal Son is without a peer in the realm of the short story. " Parents should begin early with the children, as their influence is great then; tell the story, for example, of the birth of the Savior in a simple realistic way, quoting often "And the angel said, 'Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy,'"' etc. If father working in cooperation with mother, will make special effort to have these occasions pleasant, with a feeling of love and trust in each other, and a happy companionship with all, great good will result. Not only will the Scriptures be learned and loved, but there will be a stronger, more closely knit family unit. As Tolstoy has truly said, "Where love is, there God is also." Home night, or an hour set apart for the family, will be a splendid place for scriptural reading. Allow each one his turn in choosing, reading or quoting his favorite verses. I know our Heavenly Father will come to the aid, and will enhance and compensate the earnest endeavors of parents who beseech Him in prayer, that they may in wisdom teach their children to read "the way of Life unto Salvation" so that the children in turn will want to take the high road unto Life Eternal. General Session IN MEMORIAM Rosannah C. Irvine, General Board Member BLESSED are the dead which die in the Lord.... They may rest from their labors; and their works do follow them.''—Rev. 14:13. Since last October Conference four of our lovely Board members have been called to higher existence; Ethel ReynoldsSmith, Elise Benson Alder, Inez Knight Allen, and Hazel Hill Greenwood. Our loss is so recent and so overwhelming as to leave us stricken and dismayed. However, our sorrow must not cause us to forget their happiness in their promotion and their glory. The only consolation that can come to us in our bereavement is that thought, that they died in the Lord, and though lost to us, they have entered into the place prepared for them by our Savior according to His promise of old. These women whom we mourn today had utterly different and outstanding personalities. And yet, in virtue and capability they were so similar that their characters seem almost fused into one composite being. Different as they were in appearance and characteristics, the life of each is peculiarly emblematical of Relief Society ideals. Their abilities were recognized, and they were given responsibility and position according to their merits. Happily for them, others had wisdom and vision to perceive in them capabilities which were so successfully developed for the benefit of our cause. If their talents were of a distinct and varied order, they at least were of the same rare, high quality. Taken in the bloom of their mature womanhood, while they were yet active and useful, and in love with life, we cannot help but realize that they were called for a special work on the other side. The wonder is not that four such noble women should have been touched by the finger of God, and taken from us in one short year; the wonder is that we should have had the benefit all these years of their companionship and love. These women have not lived to be forgotten. They will not pass into oblivion. While they lived they were an inspiration and a joy to all who knew them, In death they shall not cease to be held in reverent remembrance. Their faith and courage and devotion which reached the extreme height of human need, their response to the cry of the distressed, the simplicity of their lives, their love and loyalty, their delight in their work must ever remain in our memories to inspire and guide us to the highest possibility of human effort. ND now, in the order of their passing, let us pay tribute to them. Hazel Greenwood, so lovely to look at, so light hearted and gay, so talented and useful, such a grand person to have for a friend. Inez Allen, so strong, and yet so simple hearted, so wise, so witty, so kind, so forceful and true, so dear, so dear. Big hearted, loving, lovable Elise Alder, who, like Browning's Last Duchess "... Loved whate'er she looked on, And her looks went everywhere,"' And brilliant, good, capable, valiant, sweet, sweet Ethel Smith. All four were equally loved by us their co-workers, companions and friends. Let us think of them not as lost, but RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE gone before. Let us raise our souls in gratitude to our Heavenly Father for His kindness to them,—and in prayer for ourselves that we may be comforted, and be able to accept in humility and faith our great loss. Our feeble words can add nothing to the beauty and perfection of their lives. No more perfect epitaph can be given than that they loved and served humanity and died in the Lord. And when they entered the glorious presence of God, we know that they heard the voice of the Savior in greeting, "Come ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world." ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL I HAVE not words to express the honor I feel on being invited to meet with you, and to talk to you a few minutes. I have said many, 'many times, and most sincerely, that of all the organizations in the Church that are asked to assist the Priesthood, I think the Relief Society stands first, and I have said to the Priesthood that if they could only take a cue from the Relief Society their work would be done very, very much better than it has been done. I think in this organization we find exemplified to a degree perhaps greater than anywhere else in the Church, the highest and the best motive that human experience has ever found. All your work is motivated by love of the highest and purest type, and that being so, the spirit that is in your organizations, in your meetings, in your work, is, I believe, God's Spirit. Weare faced, in the Church, with many problems, some of them very difficult. I have said that we are called out of Babylon. I wonder if we have in the past in part misunderstood the meaning of that call. 733 Babylon is among us. To be called out of Babylon, as the circumstances at present prevail in the Church, cannot mean that we are called to leave our homes and our lands, and go elsewhere and build up communities in which the Latter-day Saints shall be the only dwellers. There are no such lands available, and so while the call co! Ues to us with ever increasing ferce, we ought to look perhaps to a little deeper meaning of the call than we have sometimes in the past been accustomed to give to it. Yes, we are called out of Babylon, which means, that we are called to forsake the ways of the world. Yet living among the world (non-members of the Church) with the influences of the world existing in every community where Latter-day Saints are organized, requires that we should be increasingly on our guard. Particularly is this true with the young people, and it is also true with the older people, because we do find that we are being influenced to a degree that perhaps we do not recognize by the Babylon among us.
I think if there was ever a time in the history of the Church when the call of repentance is a needful call, it is today. May I say that I have taken the theme for the few remarks I shall make from a revelation that was given through the Prophet Joseph Smith to the Church in the second year of its organization, November, 1831. May I read a few verses from the 68th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants.
"And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her Stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents;
734
"For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her Stakes which are organized;
"And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands,
"And they shall also teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord.
"And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy."
THE public and private schools are organized in our country today, and in the regions where the Latter-day Saints are organized, to a degree perhaps that the past has never known. The schools are excellent, their facilities are first-class, their teachers are well trained, and the discipline is good. In the Church we have our own organizations working perhaps more effectively, in more unity of purpose, and with an earnestness that we have not known in the past. In view of these educational facilities outside of the home, we are hearing it more or less frequently said, "It is not necessary any longer in the home to pay particular attention to the training of the children, that is all done for us." That is a very serious mistake; it is an entirely wrong view to take. The influences of Babylon about our children and about ourselves were never greater, perhaps, than they are today, and if this statement is true, there never was a time when the influence of the home should be exerted more strongly than it is today. We cannot get the things taught in the schools that the home ought to emphasize, and the greatest of these is faith; faith in a living God, faith in this Church as a divinely established institution, organized not that it might have members to glorify the Church and make it shine upon the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
earth, but organized to help its members. As its members increase, it is necessary that the Church shall be more and more completely organized than it has ever been in the past. There was a time when the members of the Church were few, and the organization was comparatively simple. Today the members of the Church are many, and they are found in every land. In order to adequately take care of their spiritual and their material needs, for we believe that both the spiritual and material add to the joys of life, it is necessary that the Church shall be increasingly more fully organized. But what can the home do? It is only a unit, of course, upon which the Church is founded.
THE most effective way to teach is by example. If the head of the household and the mother are truly living the Gospel of Jesus Christ every day, exemplifying its teachings in their conduct and in their relations with their fellowmen, we shall have brought into the home an extremely effective agency in developing a faith in the hearts of the children. I have in mind the effect of prayer. We are commanded to teach our children to pray. Do we do that in every home in this Church? Does the family surround the family altar daily and kneel in earnest, devoted prayer, and thank the Lord for all His mercies, and beseech the guidance of His Spirit and His protecting care against all the evil influences that will destroy our faith and bring misery and sorrow and distress into the home? Do we do that, and if we do, do we ask our children to participate in the prayer? I hope you will pardon me, but I was brought up in just such a home. From my earliest recollection, when I heard my father lead in the family
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
prayer I had implanted in my heart an absolute conviction of the existence of a living God. My father prayed with such earnestness, with such devotion that it seemed to me it left absolutely no doubt in my childish heart that the Lord heard every word of the prayer. As a result of that kind of training, I think every member of the family had implanted in his own heart the same kind of faith; and I can say that there was never a time in my life that I had any doubt of the existence of God, and I attribute it to prayer in the home. In this busy, complex life, do we neglect devotion around the family altar with our children? Do we call them in and ask them to participate with us, and is that a service that we never omit? It makes no difference how hurried we are, and the circumstances under which we live, can we not find time to pray? If we have the guiding hand of God to help us, if we have the companionship of the Holy Spirit, we have an influence brought into our lives that will contribute more to the joy of living, more to the success of our efforts than anything else. If we have God on our side we are safe.
But now, my sisters, you know that we are subjected to influences from Babylon that are destroying our faith. Perhaps there was never a time in the history of our Church when people generally had more disregard of observance of the Sabbath Day than they have today. Why is it possible for many amusements of, one form or another to thrive on the Sabbath Day in Latter-day Saint communities? How is it possible that the moving picture industry has its most thriving day on the Sabbath Day in those towns where 95% of the inhabitants belong to our Church? Have we forgotten the holiness of the Sabbath and do we attempt to
735
remind ourselves and our children of these things? If we are going to teach effectively we must employ one of the finest arts known to human kind. How can we influence our children, companions, associates, and friends? It is an art, that ought to be cultivated. There must be tact and love; there is no such thing in the Church as force. It is one of the things that is not recognized in Heaven as legitimate. Our whole work, the philosophy of all our doctrines is based upon the idea that man is free, that the soul is free, and that we may be led, but not driven. Free agency is a doctrine that is fundamental with us, and so we cannot force our children if we are to properly motivate them, strengthen them to do the things we like to have them do. The method that may be successful with an eighteen year old girl, may not be successful with a ten-year-old. The art of teaching is an art that you sisters in the Church have developed to a higher degree than is found to exist anywhere else in the Church, but there is still room for improvement. We must keep these problems constantly in mind, and our obligations not only to ourselves but to our families, and to the promises we have made to our Father in Heaven.
I KNOW a college girl seventeen years of age, who came from one of the missions in the Church and spent the summer in one of the Stakes of Zion. I was a conference visitor at this stake and inquired about conditions there. There were three saloons, the movies were operating on the Sabbath Day, and there were public dance halls. This girl was shocked to find such conditions prevailing among our own people, the little regard they seemed to have for the holiness of the Sabbath Day. It was considered the right
736
and proper thing for the young people to express their sociability by partaking of wine, and of course the cigarette was only a little symbol of friendliness. So when they were out in their groups and parties they must engage in the use of the cigarette and in the drinking and the dancing. Thus she went on to describe the conditions that existed in that Latter-day Saint community. She said, "We have nothing of that in our branch, we are taught differently; we are supervised, watched and strengthened against these influences of the world." Of course there are certain conditions in that branch that I think are favorable. Latter-day Saints closely drawn together in that community, are few in number, they meet and play together. So while they live among the world, they are in a sense, outside the world. But evil influences and temptations exist there and in other places where the Church is organized. Satan sees to that. Hence there is an increasing need for greater spirituality in the homes, exemplified by increased devotion of the parents themselves and by an increased attention to their children. If they fail, if the children stray away and are lost, whose fault? Well, we have the word of the Lord for it, the sin will be upon the heads of the parents, when parents fail in their duty to their children.
IN conclusion, I most earnestly hope that this matter of prayer in the home shall be a service that is never neglected. If for any reason any of us have not been accustomed to it, will we not introduce it? If we will do so we will find that prayer in the home, supported by the right living of the parents, will be the means of saving many precious souls that otherwise will stray away to our own condemnation, Regarding the Sabbath Day. Do
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
you yourselves participate in violating it? I remember reading a few years ago a book written by an Eastern gentleman who is well known in this community. He was decrying, from the parental and adult point of view, the recklessness of youth in these modern days. But he proceeded to point out that youth did nothing that it did not see its elders do. And so I think we need to watch ourselves, and pray for ourselves. If the Devil can only overcome the Saints, then his work is easy. He has been operating in various ways from the beginning, but his methods of operation today may be entirely different from those of a hundred years ago. Today, throughout the whole world there is more friendliness toward the Latter-day Saints. Are we going to feel that after all we have nothing sacred, nothing different, nothing that will hold us together, nothing that will enable us actually to demonstrate in our living that we are not of the world? Or shall we show that we have come out of the world because of the convictions that we have that God does live, that this is in reality His Church, and that His Priesthood is operating in the Church and governing the Church? If we cannot feel this way, if we do not know these things I think the thing for us to do is to humble ourselves and to strive with all the strength that God has given us, to develop this faith. Then armed with this faith can we not accomplish wonders? If wonders are accomplished, my sisters, it will be because of your valiant efforts. You cannot do the whole thing alone, but you can lend your valiant help. You can help the Priesthood in all of these activities. Without your help the Priesthood may fail to function acceptably to our Father in Heaven. Therefore, I pray most earnestly that you will have the Spirit
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
of the Lord in your hearts and in your homes, and that you will labor even more diligently. God grant this I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
MESSAGE FROM THE FIRST PRESIDENCY
World-wide publicity has been given to the Church Security Program, but practically all has been complimentary and laudatory. There is considerable hesitancy and apathy on the part of some Ward workers to meet the problems squarely and to assist distressed families towards the goal of permanent independence.
Upon the Relief Society Presidents rests the responsibility for searching out the needy and under the direction of the Bishop, to administer to the needs of unfortunate families. We appeal to the Relief Society officers of each Ward to work in the closest of harmony with the brethren of the Priesthood, first to see to it that every needy person within the Ward is supplied from the commodities produced within the Ward for that purpose or from the surpluses that may be had by the Church generally or from mercantile establishments as may be necessary, and, second, to see to it that opportunities are provided for such persons assisted to work on some project within the Ward or the Stake so as to give those who are to be assisted a feeling of independence and a desire to be self-sustaining.
To the great Relief Society organization as a whole we extend our thanks and appreciation for your efforts in the Church Security Program in providing food, clothing, bedding, and other necessities. We compliment you and bless you for your efforts, but remind you of the greater need of teamwork within each Ward that the greater and more
737
permanent objective of this program might be realized, namely: That each individual family shall be helped in its efforts to help itself.
HEBER J. GRANT, J. REUBEN CLARK, JR,, DAVID O. McKAY, First Presidency.
September 30, 1937.
President Heber J. Grant's address will appear in a later issue of the Magazine.
PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON
DURING the month of August, I had the great privilege of attending the Oahu Stake Conference and visiting the Hawaiian Mission. It was a rich experience. I have often wondered why missionaries were sent to the Islands, then known as the Sandwich Islands, at so early a date. The Church had recently come to Utah, many of the people were in poverty, few had comfortable homes, and transportation was hazardous and uncomfortable. There certainly was much to do at home. But when I went to these lovely islands, and became acquainted with the people, I felt I knew the answer. I believe the Lord loved them so much that He inspired the leaders of the Church to send missionaries to them at the earliest moment. I bring greetings to you from these wonderful people.
Sister Eliza Salm, a true Hawaiian woman, is President of the Oahu Stake Relief Society, and in all of my visits in the Church, I have never met a woman who presided with greater dignity or with more of the Spirit of the Lord, than Sister Salm did at the Relief Society conference. The attendance at Relief Society Conference and the Stake Quarter-
738
ly Conference was excellent. The arrangement of the Quarterly Conference under President Ralph E. Woolley, was very fine. President Woolley attended all sessions of Relief Society Conference, and gave a message to the older sisters in their native tongue, which was a great delight to them. The singing in all sessions of the Conference was most beautiful. Few stake choirs in the Church can equal the Oahu Stake singers.
President and Sister Bailey arranged a very comfortable and interesting tour of the Hawaiian Mission. With Sister Bailey, who was a delightful traveling companion, I visited all the islands of the Mission. The missionaries were unusually fine, earnest young men, and the three "Lady Missionaries" were just as fine and earnest as were the Elders. If I ever have a feeling that possibly the young people are not going to carry on the work of the Church, as we hope to have it carried on, I have only to go into the mission field and see the work the missionaries are doing, and partake of their spirit. I always come home feeling that "Zion prospers, all is well."
Our first meeting in the Mission was with the Leper Colony, on the Island of Molokai, where we have a fine group of Latter-day Saints with a well organized Relief Society. The spirit of faith and cheerfulness among these afflicted people was both inspiring and heart-breaking. The singing here was beautiful. We also had a district conference of Relief Society on Molokai, under the able leadership of Sister Bessie Makikau. The members of the Church are "Homesteaders" and have huge tracts of pineapples. The elders and the local brethren were most cooperative. We held meetings
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
all day and far into the night with these hospitable people.
More time was spent on the Island of Maui, where Elders and Relief Society members came from all the branches, and where a district conference was held. Sister Rose Kaaa and her able assistants had prepared an elaborate program, including a sunrise service on Sunday morning. This was held far up on a beautiful mountain under the pepper tree where President George Q. Cannon spent a great deal of time while translating the Book of Mormon into the Hawaiian language. Probably a hundred members attended this inspirational meeting, presided over and conducted by the District President, Elder Cheever, assisted by five fine elders. The morning was perfect—our Heavenly Father was most gracious in giving us a rich outpouring of His Holy Spirit. It was a sacred hour, never to be forgotten.
I wish there were time to tell you of the kind friends who made our visit a delight, but I could not mention all of them, even in an hour's time, I was on the islands only three weeks, but I wanted to weep when I left these friends, as I may never see them again. Yesterday Brother Nephi Morris said that when we meet people who belong to the House of Israel, there is a bond of friendship at once. I compliment myself when I feel that I am one with these fine Hawaiian saints.
Schools on the islands are very fine. Mr. Harry A. Franck, the historian, claims the Public School System to be the best in the United States. There are many excellent private schools. Outstanding among these are the two schools for Hawaiian young people, one for boys and one for girls, maintained by a fund of many millions of dollars, established by a princess many years ago. Excellent courses in Home
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Economics and the care of babies are featured in the school for girls.
Due to the civic minded women of Hawaii, and their interest in the beauty of their country, there are no billboards on any of the islands, but instead there are miles and miles of flower-lined streets and highways.
I was especially fortunate in seeing the night blooming cereus. Over a rock wall, blocks and blocks in length, were millions of these exquisite blossoms. They bloom in all their beauty only a few nights once a year. Flowers in Hawaii certainly bear out the saying that "the more one gives the more he has." The people are most generous in giving flowers, and every bush and tree seems to glory in producing more blossoms.
I had the privilege of attending a meeting with the Japanese Latter-day Saints. President and Sister Hilton A. Robertson live in Honolulu, and preside over the Japanese Mission. This was a real inspiration. Possibly I have a bit of prejudice on account of wars that are being waged among some of the Nations, so I was especially happy to meet our Japanese members and partake of their spirit. One of the members had joined the Church while attending the Agricultural College at Logan, Utah. In conversation with him he said, "I joined the Church thirty-eight years ago, but I have been asleep for thirty-six years. I can see now what I have missed, what I would be now if I had only lived the Gospel as I should have done during these years." I am wondering if some of us are like this fine Japanese doctor, if we, too, are not asleep. The Gospel of-
739
fers us such rich opportunities for improvement of ourselves and for service to others.
THOSE who saw the magnificent pageant, which the Granite Stake Relief Society presented in this building last night, must feel the responsibility of coming to earth when the Gospel is restored in its fulness. When throughout the centuries we were eager to come to earth, we were reserved until this favored time. When we think of the fine women who have lived when the Gospel was not on the earth, women who had the blood of Israel in their veins, but who were denied the privilege which is ours today, I am wondering if we appreciate our blessings. When we sing or read Parley P. Pratt's inspirational hymn, "The morning breaks, the shadows flee, Lo Zion's standard is unfurled," we must feel the challenge that we, the women of the Latter-day Saint Church, have in upholding the standard which is unfurled. Later, in the same hymn, is the inspiring line "Jehovah speaks, let earth give ear." If we truly know that, if there is in our hearts a burning testimony that Jehovah has spoken in our dispensation, is there anything in the world that we can do that is of more importance than to teach this truth to our children, and help them to know that the Gospel is true. I pray that we will go to our homes filled with the Spirit of the Lord, with gratitude in our hearts, feeling that there is no effort too great, there is nothing that we can do that is too much to prove to our Heavenly Father our gratitude for His blessings to us, I ask in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen.
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony Lesson 5
SOME THOUGHTS ON PRAYER AND THE REIGN OF LAW IN THE MASTER'S TEACHING
Helpful References
In the New Testament: Matthew 6:5-13; 17:14-21; 21: 13-22; 23:14; 26:36-44; Luke 3: 21-22; 5:33-35; 6:12;9:18; 11:1- 13; 18:1-8.
In the Book of Mormon: 2 Nephi 32:8-9; Enos 1-18; Alma 10:22-23; 22:16; 33:2-11; 34:18- 29; 3 Nephi 12:44; 18:19-23; 19: 6-10, 22-35; 27:1-2; Moroni 2-6.
In the Doctrine and Covenants: 10:5; 19:28; 20:33, 47; 25:12; 29:2; 65; 68:33; 84:61; 88:62- 65, 83; 98:1-2; 101:7; 109; 130: 20-21.
Talmage, Jesus the Christ: pp. 237-242, 395, 434-36, 609-614.
Brown, Why I Believe in Religion: Chapter IV.
Leighton, Religion and the Mind of Today: Chapter XXVIII (Use discreetly)
1. Christ Taught Men to Pray.— The teachings of Christ breathe the spirit of prayer. The example of His own life shows how completely He looked to a power higher than Himself. If the Son of God had recourse to prayer to help him fulfil His mortal career, how much more ought ordinary men to seek divine aid. The Savior taught both by precept and example the secret of successful prayer. No true follower of Christ can miss His express injunctions in reference to it.
2. Is Prayer Becoming a Lost Art?—Many observers believe that prayer is rapidly becoming a lost art. If it is, we ought, as a Church, to guard ourselves from losing one of the most important aids to the spiritual life. It may not be amiss at this point to note the observation of an American scholar who is particularly interested in the trend of religious beliefs among the scientists of our country. He says, "In the absence of belief in a God who hears and sympathizes with man, and who, under certain conditions, answers his prayers, traditional worship could not go on. It appeared to me, therefore, of the greatest interest to secure definite information regarding the prevalence of that belief among scientists and students." His study ranges over a period of twenty years. The conclusion he finally comes to as a result of careful observation is as follows: "Nothing in contemporary anti-materialistic science countenances belief in the God of the religions—a God, who, on request, calms the raging seas, cures the sick, transforms depression into elation, delivers from temptation, and accepts thanks and praises for his merciful deeds." We can be thankful that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is still "traditional" so far as belief in the efficacy of true prayer and worship is concerned. Let us hope that prayer does not become a lost art to Latter-day Saints!
3. Some Reasons for Neglect of Prayer—For centuries before the Reformation, organized religion had held back or positively thwarted the efforts of men to get at the truth in the physical world, indeed in most realms of legitimate research. Since that time the attainment by men of greater freedom to think and to in-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
vestigate has produced a revolution in our world. This is especially true of the work of the past one hundred years. The tremendous increase in the influence of science and its methods has led many to the belief that science, not religion, will be the means of saving the world from its evils and produce a positive era of righteousness. The use of the scientific method has produced such a change in our physical environment and in our thinking that it is quite natural for many to believe that man is quite sufficient in himself, that the universe is held in the grip of cold hard forces any amount of yearning and petition cannot change—in effect, that prayer and worship have little or no potency in such a universe. Not all scientists by any means believe in such doctrine. But enough do believe in it to cause widespread doubt in the traditional efficacy of prayer and worship.
4. The Church Teaches the Necessity of Prayer—The Church in this dispensation reaffirms the teachings of the Christ on prayer as given in the New Testament. In fact the risen, resurrected Lord Himself is the author of the revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in which prayer is mentioned. Thus the Lord says, "Listen to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Redeemer, the Great I Am, whose arm of mercy hath atoned for your sins who will gather his people even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, even as many as will hearken to my voice and humble themselves before me, and call upon me in mighty prayer." (Doctrine and Covenants 29:1-2) It is instructive to consult the Index and Concordance in the current edition of the Doctrine and Covenants on Pray, Prayer, Prayers, and to note the number and variety of references. No true Latter-day Saint can afford to neglect prayer in the
741
light of modern revelation. "All victory and glory is brought to pass unto you through your diligence, faithfulness, and prayers of faith." (Doctrine and Covenants 103:36)
5. God Answers Prayers In Accordance With Law.—Men see clearly enough the reign of law in the physical world, but ofttimes they lack sufficient insight in matters spiritual. If the latter were acquired, men would see that Law and order prevail as rigidly in that realm as in the world of matter. It need not be supposed that if God answered prayers there would necessarily exist confusion and contradiction in the world of nature. The Savior said to the Nephites during His glorious ministry among them, "Therefore ye must always pray unto the Father in my name: and whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, which is right, believing that ye shall receive, behold it shall be given unto you." (3 Nephi 20:19- 20) "Which is right, believing that ye shall receive" is the key to the matter; that is the law in the spiritual realm. Prayer and faith are essentially interdependent, and law continually reigns in the realm of the spiritual. Note in the following the law concerning faith. "And now as I said concerning faith—faith is not to have a perfect knowledge of things; therefore if ye have faith ye have hope for things which are not seen, which are true." (Alma 32:21; italics ours) The Lord taught the Prophet Joseph Smith the reign of law (and it applies to prayer) when he revealed unto him, "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated—and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (Doctrine and Covenants 130:20-21) The laws of the
742
physical world go hand in hand with those of the spiritual world. In the eyes of God the temporal and spiritual are not compartmentalized. Too often we poor mortals partially learn the law pertaining to the physical realm and then make the mistake of drawing sweeping conclusions about the spiritual realm.
6. Christ Taught His Disciples the Law Pertaining to Prayer—Christ taught that prayer ought to be offered with real intent and not with a hypocritical spirit. It was to be done simply and not with ostentation. The simplicity of the Lord's prayer is remarkable. Prayer to be effective must often be persevered in. The remarkable parables of the Importunate Friend (Luke 11:5-10) and the unjust Judge (Luke 18:1-8) drive home this very point. "And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." Also, "If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?" (See Luke 11:9, 13) The disciples of Christ knew definitely that their prayers would be answered if they obeyed His instructions. "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering." (James 1:5-6)
Questions
1. Do you believe that God in response to earnest prayer may change the usual order of nature and send rain, good weather, or good crops? Attempt to give an answer that would satisfy a reasonable thinking person.
2. How may God answer our prayers by not giving us what we ask for?
3. How would you answer the argument that God rules over too vast a universe to be able to pay attention to the prayers of insignificant creatures like ourselves?
4. What interesting lessons about prayer can you learn from Enos 1-18 in the Book of Mormon?
Problems
Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit.
1. By reference to the scriptures list the main requirements for an answer to prayer. Do you believe these are as binding as any of the ordinary laws of nature?
2. Show by reference to incidents in the life of Joseph Smith that he had to obey law in the spiritual realm before he obtained blessings.
Teacher's Topic Lesson 5
THE REASONABLENESS OF JESUS
"To be a Christian is to admire Jesus so sincerely and so fervently that the whole life goes out to him in a desire to be like him."
"Reason is the guiding and directing faculty which enables us to increase the richness and value of life."
MILLIONS of people on earth are engaged in the quest for personal happiness. But the human family is prone to err, constantly doing things which retard it in reaching its goal. Things which, upon analysis, prove neither reasonable nor satisfying. Reasonableness, lev-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
el-headedness, common sense is comparatively rare. Yet this element of character is fundamental and of intrinsic worth. Who is not greatly complimented when called a person of common sense! "We call it common sense, not because it is prevalent, but because it is a combination of the qualities and forces which, scattered among many individuals, may be said to belong to the common race of men." The individual who evidences this trait is the one whose life has richness and value.
Jesus' life was the epitome of common sense. His attitude toward life was reasonable. The tragedy of the world to him was that men failed to live that they "might have joy." He said, "I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly."
Jesus reasoned with men in regard to the right way of living. He exhorted the people at Caesarea Philippi, "What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul." "Every sentence of the Sermon on the Mount is a pearl and every paragraph is the classical expression of unadulterated common sense."
The reasonableness of Jesus is evidenced in all his teachings. The Jews had great reverence for the Sabbath and the rules for its observance were so numerous that it had degenerated almost into slavery. The view of Christ on Sabbath observance was reasonable—"The Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath." "Is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath days or to do evil? To save life, or to kill?" Thus he reasoned with the Jews.
Consider how he breaks down the objections of foolish men to prayer. "What man is there of you who if his son shall ask him for a loaf will give him a stone? If ye then being
743
evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him."
The life and character of the Savior is the standard by which to gauge the lives and characters of all men—In achieving true happiness the exercise of common sense is essential—Individuals must be rational beings, thinking clearly, judging wisely; evaluating all things in the light of the ultimate best good. The right concept of each situation, person, thing, event, value and relation is imperative. The responses made must be such as to promote well being. Common sense enables men to face life squarely, taking stock of and utilizing their actual and potential abilities. Reason dictates that we must free ourselves from worry, guard against mental depressions, letting faith and courage replace fear, doing always those things which our own highest interests and those of others require we should do. Then be content and confide in Him who knows why the worlds revolve.
References: Jefferson—Character Of Jesus. John 10:10; Mark 8:36; Matt. Chapters 5, 6 and 7; Mark 2: 27 and 3:4.
Questions
1. What constitutes a common sense attitude toward life?
2. Analyze the Sermon on the Mount and explain why it may be called, "the classical expression of common sense."
3. Give illustrations other than those given in the lesson of the reasonableness of Jesus.
4. What constitutes common sense with regard to worry; toward living standards; education; religion?
744
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Literature Lesson 5
LOG CABIN LADY
"It isn't done in England." That statement or one like it was a constant reminder to Mary, "the log cabin lady," that her social education had been sadly neglected. You will remember that she had engaged a Scotch lady of aristocratic birth to act as tutor for her. This arrangement, however, lasted but "one terrible week." The Scotch lady was, perhaps, just a bit too insistent upon what "is done in England."
Mary, as we have called the author of "Log Cabin Lady," pictures the break with the Scotch Tutor rather well, and at the same time, gives the reader a glimpse into her own American heart. In the presence of her husband and two important visitors, Mary had spoken to her chef waiter and had given him presents for the children.
"When we were alone," she wrote, "the Scotch lady turned to me. 'In England,' she said, 'ladies never converse with their servants, particularly in the presence of guests.'
"Then she sealed her doom. 'Ladies never make gifts to their servants,' she added. 'Their secretaries, housekeepers, or companions disburse their bounty.'
"I remembered the old U. S. A. An American chef waiter might hope to be the father of a President...
"I would learn table manners from an English lady of aristocratic birth and social experience; but when it came to the human act of a little gift to a faithful servant, I declared my American independence.
"I was homesick for Wisconsin, homesick for real and simple people. I wanted to go home!
"That night Tom and I had our first real quarrel, and it was over my dismissal of the Scotch lady of aristocratic birth."
Mary felt friendless and lonely in England chiefly because she did not know how to get along well with people. She was self-conscious and diffident. She had dreamed much of England and its famous places and people, but she found herself unhappy among the shrines of her dreams,
A week-end in the country where Mary evidently thought she would find rural life such as she had known in Wisconsin and where, instead, she met dignity and form, added to her troubles. Unused to English country ways she had taken only bare necessities with herself and husband for the stay.
Upon her return to London, however, Tom insisted that she get another companion. This time she was more fortunate and got not only a lady of splendid breeding and standing, but a friendly companion as well. Her name was the Honorable Evelyn, "but we quickly got down to Mary and Eve," Mary declared. With this lady as her companion, Mary went to France with her husband where the free and easy manners of the French aided in restoring her poise. Eve proved to be a priceless asset and the two women became warm friends instead of tutor or companion, pupil or mistress.
In writing of her French experience, Mary says: "There is something in being born on a silken couch. Nothing surprises you. You are at ease anywhere in the world. Eve fitted into Paris as naturally as in her native London. I began to feel at home there myself....
LESSON DEPARTMENT
"My new friends in Paris discovered my happy secret," wrote Mary. (She was to become a mother.) "It was my all-absorbing thought and I was delighted to be able to discuss it frankly. Motherhood is the great and natural event in the life of a woman in France, and no one makes a secret of it. I was very happy in Paris. And then —Tom had to go to Vienna." In Vienna Mary found form and ritual and dress even more rigid than in England. The acts of important people were governed entirely by the clock. She, having a mind of her own, rebelled and made Tom do the social honors while she and Eve enjoyed the museums. She was not sad when after a short time Tom was called back to England. Upon her return to England Mary made her last "bad break.'' Upon being told by Mr. Gladstone that she looked tired and needed to go to Harwarden Castle for a rest, she replied: "... It isn't that—I'm not tired. It is such a happy reason!" "I felt Eve gasp. Mr. Gladstone opened his kind eyes very wide and his heavy chin settled down in his collar. "Tt was the last bad break I made," she said. "But it was a blessing to me, for it robbed all social forms of terror. For the first time, I realized that custom is merely a matter of geography. One takes off one's shoes to enter the presence of the ruler of Persia. One wears a black tie until eleven o'clock in Vienna—or doesn't. One uses fish knives in England until he dines with royalty ——then one must manage with a fork and piece of bread. One dresses for dinner always, and waits for the hostess to say it is time, and speaks only to one's neighbor at table. In France one's guest speaks to any or all of the others; all one's friends extend congratulations if a baby is 745 coming; one shares all his joys with friends. But in England nobody must know, and everybody must be surprised. No one ever speaks of himself in England.... "With the aid of Eve I made a thorough study of the geography of social customs...." The remainder of the page, at least, should be read in class, for it not only gives a statement of the understanding of this girl who had suffered with a "social custom inferiority complex" but also of an easy way to become at home among all people. "Fear is the destroyer of peace," Mary continued in chapter six. "I knew no peace until I learned not to be afraid of conventions. The three most wretched years of my life might easily have been avoided by a little training at home or at school." After their baby was born Mary and Tom made a hurried trip to the United States. While they were over here, Tom sent for Mary's mother and the twins. ".... And they arrived at the Waldorf Hotel, where we were staying. Dear, simple mother, in her terrible clothes, and the twins got up with more thought of economy than beauty!" Mary shopped with the twins, but was surprised to find that her mother liked best to remain at home with the baby. "With all the children she had brought into the world one might think she had seen enough of babies. But she adored my little son. How near she seemed to me then! How hungry I had been for her without realizing it! I felt that she loved my baby boy as she had never loved me or any of her own children." The remainder of page 72 as well as pages 73 and 74 might well be read. It is touching in its beauty. A little later the trio—Tom, Mary and the baby—returned to Europe where life was still somewhat bitter for the lady who, on account of the 746 vacancies left in her education, was unable to adjust. Mary lays her finger on her trouble in the following words: "A hard and bare youth had made me supersensitive and suspicious and narrow. I wanted to measure people by the standards of my own primitive years. I resented good manners because I believed they were a cloak of hypocrisy." While they were still in England, the baby died. Tom asked for a leave and the couple went back to Wisconsin to visit Mary's folks. It was then she discovered that Tom was genuine through and through despite the fact that he had good manners. He was perfectly at home on the farm and among the farmers with whom he associated. "Tom was natural," says she in describing that visit. "It was just a part of him to be kindly and gracious to everybody." Tom and Mary, now a bit older, returned to England and Europe where they lived many years, Mary knowing at last how to conduct herself upon every occasion. Then came the World War. She includes here a few interesting pages dealing with the young ladies, especially, who went from America to perform their parts heroically, but—to break many, many social customs. Mary lived to see the signing of the Armistice when in the emotional upheaval of that day all men became suddenly equal and social customs and empty form for a while, at least, were forgotten. "Then I came home and went to Newport." In her final chapter, Mary, after relating a beautiful story of barriers swept away in England, tells of their erection by the newly rich in America—at Newport. There she saw people aping the ways of European aristocrats. "The Far West still keeps the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE American inheritance of open-hearted hospitality and its provincialism. The West inherited some of the finest virtues of our country, and if it is not bitten by Back Bay, Philadelphia, Virginia, or Charleston, it will grow up into its mother's finest child," Mary concludes. "President Harding has said that he hopes niore and more people will learn to pray in a closet alone with God. There are many people like that in our Middle West. "I say this because I hope it will help other American women who love their country to fight for honesty and purpose in our national life, and for tolerance and respect for the simple things in our private lives." That concludes the picture of this American woman as she has given it to us in this brief book. Has she succeeded well in presenting herself to her readers? Has she had a worthwhile message and has she stated it adequately in this little book? Questions and Problems for Study 1. What sort of person is Mary as you get her picture from this book? Was the fault of not being able to get along better all with her? Where do you place some of the blame; where did she? 2. In what way is custom—social usage—a matter of geography? Ilustrate by means of examples from your own lives. In what way did the discovery that custom is geographical help Mary to adjust? 3. Discuss—''Fear is the destroyer of peace." Relate the discussion, of course, to the book and to social usage. 4. In what way did the World War and the Armistice affect the social customs of all nations? Relate instances if you can. LESSON DEPARTMENT 5. What was so disconcerting to Mary about going to Newport upon her return from Europe? 6. Evaluate this book as autobi- 747 ography. What are its shortcomings? In what particulars is it strong? Would you grade it as good literature? Why? Social Service Lesson 5 Tue PROMOTION OF PEACE Text: Civic Sociology, by Edward A. Ross, Chapter 25. THE great mass of public opinion is overwhelmingly for peace— the prevalence of war and threats of war throughout the world notwithstanding. But one cannot have peace without consciously striving for it. It begins in the home. To live at peace within the family and with one's neighbors is the nearest approach to world peace. Such an ideal can be made to induce harmony among larger social and_ political units by inculcating a peaceful attitude to the extent that even war is impossible. The citizen's individual responsibility to maintain peace in his private relations is of no less importance than that of national leaders to strive for world peace. While the scope of the problem is as wide as the world itself it is also no broader than the fireside and one's immediate relations. There is a definite relationship between the condition of peace at home and the movement for international peace which seeks to replace the spirit of conflict throughout the world with organized discussion and arbitration as a means of settling misunderstandings and difficulties. But whether the problem be viewed in the largeness of its international aspect, or from an individual and local point of view, the same basic principles underly the situation. Only by understanding these underlying concepts which are at the root of difficulties and by striving to eradicate them can peace be achieved. This lesson will aim to promote the cause of peace in the following ways: First, by pointing out the basic causes for conflict between individuals, and by showing the relationship of such conflict to larger disputes. Second, through the encouragement of a personal attitude which is sympathetic toward peace movements. To promote peace we should first understand some of the important causes for conflict. They are lack of consideration for others, inhuman attitudes, pride in possession, greed and avarice, and the desire for wealth and power. Such causes underly small conflicts and extend to large. In their most hideous aspect they take the form of war. Though infinitely more complex when disptte shows itself outside the home, all forms of conflict may be settled by the same remedy—a peaceful attitude and a willingness to resort to arbitration. The problem of peace, as in all human relations, is one of adjustment to opposing points of view and interests in clash. 748 But conflict is world-wide. It commences in the home and spreads through an ever-widening circle. On the same assumption peace must also originate in the home. Its simplest form is domestic and regional; its highest is international. It can become so all-inclusive as to enjoin the whole world—but not without conscious education for adjustment. For instance, though national policies determine war, in a democracy national policies are determined by individuals. If the ideal of peace is born within the home and multiplies until that ideal exists within the majority of homes, resistance to war eventually can become a more powerful factor in the national fabric than either the desire or seeming necessity for war. And why should it not be? Though rulers make war, its price is paid by the masses. Though some classes profit from speculation, and some from the manufacture of munitions, whose home does not suffer when a nation takes up arms? Though some nations come out the victor in conflict, does not that nation's loss override its victory in bloodshed, suffering, and privation, both economically and culturally? Although there have been times when it has seemed more honorable for a country to enter a war than to remain neutral, if all nations could incorporate peace into their national ideologies there would be no war, and no nation would be called upon for even that kind of military participation. The Prophet Isaiah foretold a day when universal peace should reign upon the earth preparatory to the second coming of Christ, the Prince of Peace, who, it is believed, will some day rule personally upon the earth. Isaiah said: "And he shall judge among nations, and shall rebuke RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE many people: and they shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning-hooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation. Neither shall they learn war any more." (Isaiah 2:4) The Scriptures are also witness to the fact that other prophets have looked into the future to see the time when humanity will live together in harmony. Although world affairs at the present time seem dark and threatening, the beginning efforts toward a peaceful solution of international diffculties have not been without success. There have been many channels in which man has turned his energy in the right direction. Since the World War diplomatic organs have been created to make it possible for nations to settle their quarrels. Repeated attempts toward the reduction of armaments have been made in order to lessen one of the greatest causes of war—suspicion between nations. In 1918 the League of Nations was established. While subject to much criticism and perhaps imperfect in many ways, the actual establishment of the League was in itself a tremendous step toward world peace. During its history of approximately fifteen years it has successfully adjusted many quarrels between nations whose differences of opinion were very bitter.. If it never did anything more than to provide a place where representatives of all nations could gather and become better acquainted to talk over common problems it still would be worth while. The fact that several important nations did not officially join the body in no way invalidates the principles capable of fostering world peace. Subsequent to the forming of the League of Nations some seven distinct attempts have been made to LESSON DEPARTMENT unite the principal nations under agreements which would facilitate the adjusting of misunderstandings, suspicions, and difficulties. No single effort has been entirely successful, yet some good has resulted from each, although failure has attended many of the major objectives. Treaties have been formed which solemnly bind the signatories to adjust their difficulties without war. Although violation of some of these treaties will undoubtedly occur from time to time, if knowledge of them is taught at home and their importance to peace is stressed, the ultimate effect of such an attitude is bound eventually to bear its influence upon society. Progress in this direction is already noticeable. Although anger and avarice may still overcome the desire for peace and nations are still at war, time was when practically all difficulties caused them to take up arms against each other. These attempted solutions of large troubles are the result of individual ideals which have been intelligently pooled to direct world thought. Some one's fireside was the birthplace of one great thought in this direction,. And some one's else of another. There are homes which give rise to the vision of peace. When they become the majority, and rulers become subservient to majorities peace will exist. It is a matter of adjustting to changing ideals and a world in flux. The necessity to conform to new conditions is always present. Since peace from any aspect cannot come about without consideration, settlement, or arbitration, an open mind to change is ever needful. The present widespread conflicts between workers and employers are examples which call for adjustments to economic changes. Such conflicts 749 often result in strikes which are devastating not only to the members of both sides of the controversies, but to the nation as a whole, and even to foreign countries. For example, when the longshoremen on the Pacific Coast refused to work, cargoes were returned to the source of supply, domestic and foreign. It seems a far cry from an Oriental field worker who assists in the raising of bulbs to a laborer in the greenhouse half way around the world. But the babies of each have known want when longshoremen strike and refuse to do their part in the chain of connecting circumstances. The pocketbooks of the interested owners in both hemispheres become thinner; taxes may go unpaid, and communities consequently suffer. The ramifications of dispute reach far beyond the sight and sound of their origin. The promotion of mutual interest between different nationalities within a country is another matter of adjustment. Unlike races must achieve likeness in a common patriotic ideal which embraces the general welfare. Such need calls for large adjustment. But it should also be understood that patriotism does not mean the condemnation of other peoples and nationalities whose ideas may be at variance with a country's own. Nor should the idea of racial superiority continue to exist. Each race must be allowed the right to work out its own destiny. These problems do indeed require orientation of individual thought and arbitration for the settlement of both national and international problems. Within a nation changes in industry, government, and education are constantly arising. But the rate at which such institutions develop varies greatly. Hence there is gen- 750 erally considerable lag between the latest developments and a large body of people. Such lag calls for adjustment in order to prevent conflict. In regard to all of these conditions, the problem of peace is definitely interwoven. They constitute questions which can be settled either peacefully or explosively. Much depends upon the attitude which has been encouraged at home and in early life. What can we as individuals do to help bring about an attitude of adjustment which would lead to peace? Live to uphold the ideal of world peace. Let spirituality prevail in the home. Foster those concepts which are opposed to war and conflict. Cultivate those where order and the common welfare are considered. Educate children to seek values outside the chaotic, pleasuremad impulses of the day that the flame of brotherly love which should burn in everyone's heart may not be obscured. Religion teaches the brotherhood of man. There are peace organizations throughout the world which try to live up to that ideal. It is significant to note that the National Woman's Relief Society has played a prominent part in the activities of such organizations. The Latterday Saint Church teaches not only the brotherhood of man, but the Fatherhood of God through the family relationship and its consequent responsibilities. Its auxiliary organizations supply constructive activities that lead to positive influences in the lives of its members. Wholesome influences of this kind should do much to bring about a greater state RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of happiness among all classes. A cheerful aspect toward life makes adjustment to difficulties easier. Discontent in regard to one's lot in life lessens with education for peace. Although obstacles develop fortitude and progress is often founded on difficulties, conflict which results in hatred and destructive tendencies is negative to the welfare of man. Wholesome ideals which lead to peace cannot fail to make adjustment easier. Why should we as a people who have dreamed our dreams and have made infinite progress in many ways not envision a condition of world peace? We who believe in a cycle of life which reaches from life unseen to life unseen can surely believe in the effectiveness of an ideal which is concerned with earthly welfare. It cannot be beyond human hope. In our philosophy each individual life is precious. Let us strive to create conditions of peace that all life may be lived to advantage along the road of positive accomplishment. With the help of the Lord such an ideal, emanating from the soul of man, must be possible of fulfillment. Activities 1. Each community has its own peculiar problems which are a source of friction to many of its members. Explain how these difficulties may be settled satisfactorily to all. 2. The border line between the United States and Canada has never been fortified. Discuss the effect of the lack of fortifications upon the peaceful relations of the two countries. The LESSON DEPARTMENT 751 Literature for Missions TYPICAL WOMEN IN THE CHURCH Lesson 5 MARGARET STALLE BARKER Born in Italy "THE subject of this sketch was born October 20, 1850, at Prarustin, a village in one of the valleys of the Piedmont, northern Italy. Her parents, Jean Pierre and Marie Gaudin Stalle, were of French descent and belonged to a Protestant group, known as Vandois or Waldensees. This group had suffered much severe persecution during several generations in spite of which it still clung to the faith of the fathers. It was a group therefore that was characterized by strong religious convictions, for which many thousands of them had fought and died during previous generations. The story of their persecutions is one of the saddest of all the sad, inhuman persecutions that blacken the pages of civilization in Europe during the Reformation. The Stalles were small farmers who were able to live only by dint of hard work and the strictest economy. Of course, they lived simply as did most of their neighbors. Among these people there went a few missionaries of the Church who first began their labors in 1850, under the direction of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, who became the fifth President of the Church in 1898. The missionaries met with great success. Thirty families from this smali group joined the Church. They were opposed and persecuted. Their persecutors, descendants of cruelly persecuted people, had not learned how to be tolerant to other religions. But among the few converts of the elders were Pierre Stalle and family, baptized about 1853. In November, 1855, responding to an invitation by Mission President Franklin D, Richards to emigrate to Zion, the family soon started for Liverpool, leaving unsold their little home and farm. On December 12, the Stalle family, father, mother and four children, the youngest of whom was Margaret, 5 years old, sailed from Liverpool with nearly 500 other Saints, 437 of whom were from Denmark, Norway and Sweden, 42 from Great Britain, besides a few others from Piedmont. The passage across the Atlantic to New York required 66 days, in decided contrast to the 414 to 8 days required in these times. The difference in ship accommodations between then and now is probably as great as the difference in time. The accommodations given to emigrants in those days were extremely meagre. Reaching New York the family went to St. Louis by train, then made its way to Florence, Nebraska, where in June, 1856, it joined the first hand-cart companies bound for Salt Lake City. Before this the usual method of emigrant crossing of the plains was by oxteams. This way was slow. Further, the strong and able-bodied folk walked beside their slow-moving wagons. Hence the idea of hand-cart companies was soon suggested. Furthermore, handcarts were much cheaper than wagons and oxen. Cheapness would greatly aid the poor emigrants. The first hand-cart companies ever to cross the plains to Salt Lake City left Iowa City June 9, 1856. The distance was 1,300 miles. There 752 were no real roads—only trails, and these were usually rough. The plains were dry and hot. In many places water and fuel were scarce. Even food was never any too plentiful, often short. The carts had to be lightly loaded, for they were to be pulled and pushed by the foot-sore pedestrians; all who were able toiled at the carts. Is it any wonder that many were overtaxed and died on the way, due to exposure, lack of enough suitable food and other hardships? Of course, the emigrants could carry in their carts no furniture or heavy belongings, only a scanty supply of clothes, food and bedding. If they had more than these, they were asked to leave them behind. Such clothing as the Stalle family had not left at Florence had to be worn constantly in all kinds of weather and to sleep in at night and was of little value on reaching Salt Lake City. At times they found water scarce and had to dip it out of buffalo tracks after a rain storm. At other times unusually long marches were made to reach wood and water. When there was no expectation of finding wood, a sack was hung on the back of the handcart to carry dry buffalo chips, picked up on the way. You ask, "How could they think of starting off on their long, difficult trek so poorly equipped?" It was their undaunted faith in a living God that made them confident that all would be well. In this connection read the immortal hymn "Come, Come Ye Saints," written especially for the emigrants crossing the plains. Notice the fourth verse: "And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day! All is well!" No, they were not afraid of hardships, not even death itself. Liberty and freedom to worship God in peace were worth any sacrifice, even RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE life itself. But mortal life is but an instant. A happy, everlasting life beyond the grave and a glorious resurrection were the important things. Soon after beginning the trek Margaret's father became ill and later died on the way. Her mother was still weak from the long sickness suffered on the trip across the Atlantic. So the family hand-cart had to be pushed by her sister, 19 years old, and her sixteen-year-old brother, Margaret herself being only 5; while old enough to walk all the way was not strong enough to toil at the cart. The body of her father was wrapped in a sheet and placed in a wayside grave between two layers of sagebrush and covered with earth. On the day of his death, he told his family that he could not go on but that they would reach the Valley (Salt Lake) in safety and would never want for bread. This was a remarkable prophecy. A penniless widow and four children, none of whom at the time could speak English, were on the way to a povertystricken country. Yet the dying father told them they should never suffer for the need of bread. And they never did. The companies arrived in Salt Lake City, September 26, 1856, having been more than three months on their weary trek. The problem for the widow and her four children was at the moment very difficult, aggravated by the language handicap. But the courageous woman was undaunted. The older girls found homes in which to work, and the mother, son and Margaret went to Ogden to live near other friends. There the mother and her son made a dug-out, one room in the side of a hill, to live in. Years after, Margaret wrote: "The roof of the dug-out was made LESSON DEPARTMENT of willows, covered with bulrushes and then dirt. The dirt floor was covered every Saturday with fresh straw when we could get it. We had no furniture, but for a bed and a seat forked sticks were put in the wall and in the dirt floor, and rushes were woven in between and covered with straw. In place of glass for a window, a piece of cloth was used. For bread the family gleaned in the fields and gathered enough wheat for their winter's supply. Mother knew how to spin and weave in the old country. I gathered sun-flowers for candles and burned them one at a time, holding them up in my hand so mother could see to spin at night. She worked out during the day as much as she could." The family lived in the one-room dug-out for about 18 months, and then in the early Summer of 1858 joined in the general move of the Saints "to the South," due to the coming of Johnston's Army. Returning to Ogden later in the year after the troubles due to President Buchanan's blunder had been adjusted, the family continued to live there a year or two, maintaining itself the best it could. Then the mother moved to Logan taking her son and Margaret with her. But later the girl returned to Ogden and lived with her married sister, Mary. Four years later, November, 1867, she married Henry Barker. He was an industrious, thrifty farmer. Their new home was in North Ogden, a suburb of Ogden. The house to which Brother Barker took his bride was a oneroom log hut with a dirt roof. A year later he built a better house with a shingled roof. Next he built a two-story brick house which was the home of the Barker family until after the father's death in 1918, and that of their married daughter Ann 753 in 1920. Sister Barker then moved to the home of her daughter Lily in Ogden, where she still lives, February, 1937, Sister Barker is the mother of ten children—6 boys and 4 girls, 6 now living. Three (2 boys and a girl) died when children, and the fourth died after being married. The four grown sons all filled missions, their fields being Australia, England, Switzerland and the United States. For several months three sons were on their missions at the same time, the family maintaining them with difficulty. Five grandsons have also been missionaries. "Part of Henry Barker's success was due to his wife. She took the best care of the family. Food was wholesome and abundant and clothing suited to the season and kept in good repair was provided. At the same time nothing was wasted, and everything used to best advantage. M worked hard and long every av." Still, she gave her children a desire to learn which in herself she had never been able to satisfy, never having had the opportunity of going to school. But before her first child was born, she decided that her children should have an education. She learned to read and write so she could teach them to do the same. This she did at home before they were old enough to go out to school. She was influential in keeping them at school as long as they cared to go. Two of her sons are prominent educators, one of them having spent years in study in Europe and is an able scholar, well known on two continents. Sister Barker is a small woman, weighing only about 100 pounds. But she has always been wiry, energetic, quick to make decisions, and a good disciplinarian. However, she never 754 scolded or whipped her children. To her such treatment is barbaric. She would watch for the opportune time and correct them in love and kindness. She could not tolerate loafing, fault-finding, and gossiping. She provided her children with books to read during leisure hours and encouraged them to bring their friends home for play. "Study, work, play —but no loafing," was one of her sayings. The Barkers had an orchard. When fruit' was scarce and prices high, she never refused the children and their playmates all the fruit they could eat. However, she would say, "Eat all you want, but do not waste." All through her life she has had the fine idea of thrift which she inherited from her European home. Soon after marriage her husband bought 12 matches for one dollar. She made these last more than a year. Matches being so scarce and expensive most people started their fires with flint and tinder. She would go in the orchard, even after the family was well-to-do, and gather fruit which had fallen to the ground, and dry it. But perhaps on that very day she had sent a son hundreds of dollars for a trip thought to be necessary for his education. How thrifty—how self-sacrificing! For thirty years the Barkers gave substantial sums to missionaries leaving the Ward to help them to their fields of labor. To Sister Barker the Gospel ''meant everything" and no sacrifice for it was too great. "What is worth doing at all is worth doing well" was another favorite saying of hers. She applied this to her religion. Further- _ more, "What is done should be done promptly," she taught. Though quick to make decisions, Sister Barker is a woman of good RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE judgment. When a decision was made, it meant action at once. With her "'to believe was to do." Entirely unselfish she has always lived and worked for others—her family, friends and all in need. Therein she has always found her happiness. She made a happy home for which she will always be remembered. She is greatly loved. It could hardly be otherwise. She always enforced the rule "no speaking ill of anyone. If you can't say something good of a person, don't say anything. If you want to say anything unpleasant about a person, say it to his face." Though in her 88th year (November, 1937) Sister Barker is still active in the Relief Society, serving as an officer in her Ward. Questions for Discussion 1. What do you know about the Waldensees, the religious people from whom Sister Barker descended? 2. What were some of their characteristics? 3. What kind of home did Margaret Stalle have in Piedmont? 4, What were some of the qualities of her mother? 5. Which of these qualities did Margaret exhibit? 6. Name some of the hardships the Stalle family endured in emigrating to Utah. 7. With what spirit did they suffer these things? 8. How and where did Margaret spend her girlhood days in Utah? 9. Recite some of her characteristic sayings. 10. Tell why you think she was a good mother. 11. Tell why you think she is a noble woman. LESSON DEPARTMENT 755 Child Guidance Lesson 5 ADOLESCENCE DOLESCENCE is usually thought of as the period of the "teens." More strictly speaking, it constitutes that part of a person's life during which he changes from childhood to adulthood. In_ this sense, there is no age limitation to the period of adolescence, and whether a person is no longer an adolescent depends upon whether he has become fully grown up psychologically, that is, whether he has acquired the independence to "go alone" as an adult. But how to determine when a person is fully grown up is not easy. Physically we reach maturity at about eighteen years of age. Sexually we become mature at about the same time, although sexual awareness usually appears at about thirteen or fourteen. Our mental growth ceases at between fourteen and twenty years, that is, our inborn ability to learn ceases to increase at about this time, although learning itself goes on throughout life. Emotionally, however, most children are not completely mature by the end of their teens. They still rely considerably upon childish means of getting their way in the home. Emotional explosions are still frequent occurrences. Economically, in modern society, few of our young people are self-sustaining by the time they are twenty. If a college education is in the family program, the boys are seldom established on a job, nor are the girls settled in marriage, until they are twentyfive. For professional young men, marriage is generally postponed until thirty, and economic independence is delayed accordingly. In pioneer days, when life was primarily agricultural, young people reached complete maturity earlier than they do in our age of commercialism and higher education. Formerly part of the herds or lands could be set aside when the children were biologically or physically prepared for marriage, but today economic "weaning" is not so simple, and parents can seldom be sure that the children will not "come back on them" for further economic support even after they have left the home nest. Modern social and economic conditions place certain restrictions upon the maturing child, some of which limitations cause certain deepseated conflicts in adolescence. With the boy or girl in the teens, some new and urgent needs appear which give rise to a sense of confusion and uncertainty for a few years. Some of the new needs felt are: (1) need for freedom from supervision of parents in such matters as bed time, friends selected, fashions of dress, and use of automobiles, as well as various habits of conduct; (2) need for association with the opposite sex; (3) need for self-support economically, including finding a vocation and job; (4) need for a satisfying point of view. On life, or need for a religion or philosophy of life, that will give meaning to the many new concepts of the world the adolescent's maturing intellect makes possible. A need for freedom from supervision in details of conduct arises partly from the failure of parents to respect the growing intellect of the child, and from the parents' unwill- 756 ingness to relinquish their dominating position in the parent-child relationship. The mother often wants the child to remain a child to satisfy her emotional need for someone to be dependent upon her. On the other hand, many parents have a legitimate concern over the conduct of the adolescent when the parents realize that morally the youth may lack good judgment and control of himself. A wholesome companionship between the parents and the child is of great importance in guiding the adolescent through the change from his following their moral judgments and following his own. That adolescents become keenly interested in the opposite sex is borne out by an intimate study of the love affairs of one hundred married men and one hundred married women, a study made by G. V. Hamilton, a psychiatrist. He found that the average number of attachments for persons of the opposite sex was greater for girls between fifteen and twenty years of age than at any other period of life, and for boys the greatest number of attachments was at an age near twenty. There was found a rapid increase in the number of attachments at about thirteen years for both sexes. Obviously, mating cannot take place as early as attraction is felt, because, if for no other reason, people of this age are seldom able to support children financially as well as their parents expect. Economically adolescents are not prepared for marriage as early as they are emotionally prepared. This circumstance is one of our most difficult social problems today, a problem for which we probably have not found a thoroughly satisfactory solution. Sublimation, or substitution, in the form of creative activities in high RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE school and college is a partial solution. This program permits association between the boys and girls, provides a great deal of physical activity in the way of sports and social functions, and attempts to build up wholesome moral ideals for the safeguarding of chastity. For Latter-day Saints, the mission often serves as an excellent solution to this problem, at least for a time. It takes the young person into a field of service where lie can lose himself in the task of growing into an adult. Adolescents, characteristically, according to good evidence, take little interest in the welfare of mankind. Careful studies of changes of interests with age show that one of the most distinguishing characteristics of adults, as contrasted with youths, is their interest in the welfare of others. Missionary experience probably promotes this phase of maturity better than almost anything the youth can do. The postponement of marriage is an outcome in part of modern conditions which call for specialization of labor and higher degrees of training than formerly. Unemployment of youth is one of the most critical problems facing the world today. The uncertainty facing the youth who has not found his first job, or who may not have even a definite idea of what he would like to do, adds greatly to the emotional turmoil experienced by adolescents so generally today. Better vocational guidance and placement facilities would remedy this situation considerably. Parents sometimes add to the difficulty of the youth in finding his way vocationally by their insisting upon the boy or girl fulfilling ambitions which 'were frustrated in their own lives. Thus one boy was driven to failure because his father insisted that he would become a great lawyer. LESSON: DEPARTMENT After much disappointment, the lad was studied by a psychologist and was found to be only bright enough to do well at clerical work. Parents should rather see their children succeed at simpler or moré humble occupations than to fail in professions for which they do not have the ability, aptitude, or interests. Uncertainty in the mind of the adolescent as to the meaning of things in his world often complicates his problems of adjustment. Questions as to his origin and destiny are likely to arise during these years, as are many others such as the nature of God, the basis of right and wrong, and the purpose of life. Those who are not so fortunate as to go on missions still have the Church teachings to answer the great queries about life and destiny and to give them a guiding philosophy that lends purpose and pattern to existence. We have spoken of the four main needs the adolescent has and what can be done to satisfy them. In some cases, suitable satisfactions are not found for these needs, and the individual fails in one of the following ways: (1) he becomes delinquent, falls out of school, begins to steal, commits sex offenses and drifts to the juvenile courts or industrial schools; (2) he may withdraw from the real world, become too imaginative, lose all interest in things outside his own thoughts, become violently disturbed in his emotional life, or may even go insane; (3) he may give up the fight entirely and commit suicide because he cannot "find himself"; or (4) he may acquire drunkenness or drug addiction as an escape from the unpleasantness of reality. Usually the members of the human family who fall victims to these tragedies, are the weak or unstable in mind who lack 757 the mental strength to fight through their difficulties. Psychological weaning is an expression used by Hollingworth to designate the time in one's life when he finally becomes able to think maturely and independently about his problems, to make his own way vocationally and economically, to transfer a certain degree of affection from his family to his prospective mate, to throw off other kinds of emotional dependence on his family, and to use "grown up" (as contrasted with childish ways) of satisfying his needs. In other words, psychological maturity means ability to "go alone" financially, emotionally, and intellectually. Many men find it easy to fall back on their parents for a little financial aid; adult women sometimes call on their mothers for guidance (or the mothers call on them to offer guidance) in solving emotional difficulties in their married life. These habits are hang-overs from adolescence. Ability to keep silence at proper times is a mark of emotional maturity; prattling is a mark of childishness. Restraint from expressing emotion at certain critical times is also a mark of emotional maturity. Courage to go to distant places alone, as missionaries do, is a sign of maturity. When a person can set up his own goals of achievement and intelligently pursue them on his own initiative and in spite of obstacles, he is grown up. Parents should strive to see the needs the adolescent has and to respect them as though they were their own. Emotional unrest of adolescence comes from uncertainty in their conception of themselves. This confusion often makes them obstinate or difficult to approach. The adolescent is uncertain as to whether he is still a child or now a man. His associates are also uncertain arid 758 frequently hesitate as to whether to say "kid," "lad," "fellow," or "Mr." His body is awkward because of rapid growth and lack of proportion, all of which adds to his embarrassment and uncertainty of status. Habits in parents andchildren should be freely revised as new needs arise throughout the growth of the child from infancy. The parent who fully sees the child's point of view should have no difficulty in permitting this revision of habits. Part of her emotional growth itself is to unobtrusively step aside and see her son or daughter go into the arms of another never to fully return as her child. Both parents should take care not to interfere with the striving for independence which is so normal in adolescence, for growth towards maturity comes only through one's own striving. Good relations between parent and child, however, still permit a certain kind of helpful guidance through this trying period. If this relationship has been lost, well-meant attempts RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at guidance by parents generally drive young people to make mistakes they would not otherwise make. Unwise interference with the developing independence of adolescents is often the leading cause for their leaving home and breaking from the ideals the parents cherished most. Problems for Discussion 1. What do we mean by psychological weaning? Distinguish it from physical maturity. 2. Describe some of the problems that arise because of the fact that physiological and economic maturity do not occur at the same time. What solutions to these problems would you propose? 3. What is the parents' problem in the psychological weaning of the boy or girl? 4. Show how constant habit and attitude revision from infancy to maturity is necessary on the part of both parent and child in order for successful psychological weaning. What shall I give? Everyone is seeking to find gifts that beautiful. Aio "Mormon Handicraft" are different—useful as well as & o has a = wide variety of hand-made articles which make very acceptable gifts. IBAQO Ht The Home Coming By Caroline Eyring Miner HERE'S mamma?' That's what we always asked at our home when mother wasn't half way down the lane to meet us whenever we came home. And what a disappointment that question spelled. At the mere suggestion my thoughts wing home as surely as the homing pigeon finds its nest. I see my mother once again rise from her chair on the porch where she has been braiding a rag rug and come joyously to greet us as we enter the short lane that leads to the house. She could never wait for us to get home but came half way to meet us with arms and heart open to gather us to her as if she wished in that one loving embrace to assure us of the security of her love against the buffetings of the whole world. She always was, and still is, a very busy mother. I don't believe I ever saw her idle in my life and she arose early every day in the year. In fact she was in such a habit of it that even when she went away to visit and there was nothing particular for her to do she was up before daylight sewing or reading if she couldn't rake up something more strenuous to do. She was always busy—but never too busy to meet us and greet us when we came home. "This place is the grandest place in the world", she said often of our old home place. She was ever superlative in her speech and could never be critical of anything in the sense of finding fault with it. As she told each of us children in turn that he was the dearest, most thoughtful child a mother ever had we felt bolstered up and sustained for a better struggle with our problems big and little another time. This optimism and gratitude for her own, greeted us every time we entered the door in spirit if not in words. What a tug it was to draw and keep us home I have only begun to appreciate. WHEN we went away from home for longer than the day, to school or to teach school at a distance there was always a bustle of housecleaning and cooking of our especially favored dishes upon our arriva! Home, with best of all father and mother to hug and kiss and praise and cry over us all at once. I used to wonder how mother had enough endearing words and kisses and energy to go around for all the home comings there were in our big family, but it was a well that never went dry. As I remember reading of another mother, her heart enlarged with every child as the body did, with the difference that her heart stayed big enough to hold and love all of her children at once. It was fun to go away just for the glorious home coming. MOTHER went away herself many times; her Relief Society work and practical nursing took her away from us all too often. Once she went to Utah for a year to nurse my grandmother who was very ill. Somehow we pinch-hitted along without her but what a glorious home coming we tried to make for her when she returned. We tried to imitate all the home comings we had seen her prepare for all at once. As U remember the oldest girls of us at home were ten and twelve and we cleaned the house until it shone—at 760 least where it showed. And what an array of soggy, burned cookies and cakes we had! Mother liked them though, everything, at least she said so in her superlative optimistic way and we felt perfectly happy and contented with it all. Every time mother returned from even a short stay away she had some surprise done up in a very secret way in her suitcase. I know now that all the dainties, oranges, or candy, or cakes, or apples that came secretly from that bag were things that had been given to her and which she wouldn't eat in order to have a happy surprise for her children. Often they were hard and dried or crumbled, but tasted delicious beyond expression to us then. Mother didn't like oranges. I thought as a child that it was such a fortunate dislike for us and now I believe she didn't like them just on purpose so we could have them and not realize she was denying them to herself which would have partly spoiled them for us. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE HOME comings were always joyous in our home. They were real occasions whether our stay from home had been long or short. And they were so happy because of the parents and children there and the little things they did and said. It wasn't only because the mother was well and strong and able to clean and cook and run down the lane to welcome us home although these things were inseparable with our home comings. It was rather because of the joyous spirit of the mother who was there, her confidence in her children, the security they knew was theirs in their mother's almost blinded exaggeration of their perfection. If she had been flat on her back as some mothers are, I think it would have been the same. Then we would have gone in to her. A real home coming is not a reunion of the bodies of the members of a family only; it is the reunion and revitalization of their spirits. The Little Things In Life That Make Us Happy Or Unhappy By Fae Decker Dix O we stress the little things too much? Are we prone to overdo them? My mother used to teach us to take care of the little things, tie up all the little ends, before we tackled a big job. Never were we allowed to settle down to a book, our Jessons, or the dress we were sewing until the little household tasks had been performed, the dishes, the dusting, the bed making. When all of this was in order then we were ready for the tasks that required greater concentration. And we found it easier to concentrate in a room of orderly surroundings. "Do the little things first and the big ones will automatically take care of themselves," was the formula of my mother's philosophy. And, I have always found it good. LITTLE THINGS IN LIFE Do you remember what started the quarrel in your home yesterday? Or, the hostile argument in a group of conversationalists? Or, even the greatest wars of the world? Almost always it has been a little thing, sometimes so trifling one cannot recall it after the smoke has cleared away. Verily, it behooves each of us to guard the little acts of our lives. HERE is victory in the struggle for anything. And, all the world loves a struggle." There is something splendid in the realization that one is giving one's soul to the struggle for a worthy desire. The full richness of life cannot be known without struggle. The consciousness that we are fighting against odds somehow lends us courage. "To have conquered a bad habit, to have overcome a prejudice, to have attained a new, desirable attitude, to have achieved, through struggle, any goal worth striving for, makes the goal seem doubly dear." Christ struggled. And, He did not ever overlook the little things. He gave love to everything. Never a soul came to him with trouble too small for His consideration. Let us strive to be successful in these little things: Finding something to be grateful for in every sorrow. Smiling even when it hurts. Liking all kinds of weather. Expressing appreciation for the beautiful things of Nature. Remembering that "To have what we want is riches; to be able to do without is power." Searching for the spark of good in even the worst hearts. When what you most longed for to succeed, finally fails; or, someone else succeeds with it, learn to draw 761 a deep breath, grit your teeth, and say, "Well, I'll just get out of it all the good I can... And not repeat my mistakes." If you hate something you must suffer through, bear it bravely and do your best with it, remembering patience. Look for some good in it. There must be some good in every experience. AN D, then, let us strive to keep out of our lives the little discontents. They make us so unhappy— that futile yearning to travel in foreign lands when we haven't the money; that longing for a mansion to live in when we can only afford a wee cottage; or the sad hope for fame. Fame does not ever bring true happiness just of itself. Every seeker for happiness must eventually come back home and look in his own heart. If he finds peace there, and understanding for his fellows, then he must surely find happiness, too. After all, if you can say, "I have health. I have someone to love. I have food to eat, work to do, clothes to cover me, I have given my best to this day's task,"... Can a king have more? Materially perhaps, but we do not take material things along when we go to receive our certificate at the throne of judgment. We cannot take anything but the character we have built. How, then, shall each of us fare when we approach that hour and see the whole record of our achievement on this earth laid out before us? What is there actually left of each of us after all the material things in our surroundings are taken away? Therein lies the keynote of the work we have to do, and out of that shall come each man's "certificate." And, I believe these "certificates" will be graded and bestowed largely from the LITTLE THINGS we did on Earth. 762 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AN ACCOUNT RENDERED Or why does someone shudder When the silver raindrops fall? When the prices all are told— What this man paid for the love he took, And that one paid for his gold! As night softly lowers her pall? And, what did the lad in the blue suit pay We might have the great understanding SS OS ee i aaa WHEN you want to find something for a gift with a lovely personal touch, come to 'Mormon y Handicraft." From its wide variety of hand-made articles you id N may discover just the thing you are looking for. Summer Weather— You'll Want Comfort! No meals to cook over a hot stove these weeks of summer if you'll plug into an electric outlet some of these handy electric appliances: TOASTERS-—-EGG COOKERS—BROILERS—WAFFLE IRONS—SANDWICH MAKERS AND HANDY GRILLS UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ere must be a day of reckoning, Or the courage it cost that woman To smile, with her head held high— For breaking the old home tie? And, another grow less light-hearted Yes, there must be a day of reckoning, Oh, that before it descends, To love and forgive all men! Good Business Position —Of course you want one! You can qualify at the LDS Business College quickly and at little cost— and receive expert help in finding work as soon as you are ready. Period in our entire history. As many as ten calls for office workers have been Teceived in q single day. New classes are beginning every week. Write, telephone, or visit for detailed information. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Wasatch 1812 To your missionary abroad It is not too early to make your selection of CHRISTMAS GREETING CARDS for that friend or relative who is laboring in q strange land amid strange peoples. Write or come in today. Pale The Desoret Vows. Press 29 Richards Street IL Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 70 North Main Salt Lake City WHAT WILL BE YOUR HARVEST? Autumn is here. For many it is the best season of all. To the farmer it means that the harvest is in. Full granaries and haylofts give him a sense of security and accomplishment. He can look forward to a winter of well earned rest. In your life, too, there will come a harvest time, an Indian Summer when your work is done. And that part of your life can be a time of rich, contented living—if it is free of financial worry. You can guarantee yourself this economic freedom by means of life insurance. A planned insurance program in the Beneficial, begun now, will assure a later harvest of leisure and contentment. Consult your local Beneficial] agent. If you do not know who he is, write the home office. BENEFICIAL LIFE BENEFICH ( ar fe ul Sa HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING. SALT Lake City, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT The Wj RELIEF SOCIETY AZAaZINne DECEMBER, 1937 No. 12 Every time you buy a gallon of Pep g8 gasoline oF a quart of Vico motor of every working day, We spend oil, you help to foster the welfare ot your communityFor these high $ 4591 quality motoring products are made right here in the intermountain region py a company that furnishes 4 liveliFreight as follows: hood; directly oT indirectly, to more 'wage er ages. Than 10,000 people. Supplies All this money is circulated and recirculated in the intermountain GAS RANGES Take advantage of this attractive money-saving opportunity to get the family 4 Christmas present that wi pring more leisure, better meals and greater economy into the home for years an!: models. Easy terms. PpLy COMPANY 36 South State. salt Lake City Serving 21 Utah Communities When Buying Mention Relief Society Mogasine years! Come in and see the beautiful new Magic Chei A small payment down puts a range like this in your home. J. P. RIDGES ENGRAVING CO. 42 West Second South Salt Lake City, Utah We make CUTS for any printing purpose Phone WASATCH 3723 Mail orders given prompt attention Two NAMES GLORIFY THE GIFT YOU GIVE FROM CHRISTMAS CITY YOURS AND ZCMI Gifts of finer quality that will not only receive a more appreciative welcome, but that will find more joy in giving. Gifts that look finer and last longer, and cost but little more. Select all your gifts at Z. C. M. I. The Christmas City. True Economy Begins With Quality Fruits Complete ei STAL Dal at Vegetables Line. | Markets '3verx; Ask For Party 'Delicatessen _Ist South at 3rd East—17th South at Sth Fast © Suggestions South Temple at 2nd East Bakery Dept. REMEMBERI Fruit Cakes from our own Bakery— Finest money will buy " Utah Grown—Utah Packed Food Products When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vou. XXIV DECEMBER, 1937 No. 12 CONTENTS Birth of the Redeemer........... Merling D. Clyde 763 Frontispiece—Virgin, Infant Christ, St. Catherine..... 764 The Gift Supreme......Hugh B. Brown 765 Heartsong...Gertrude Perry Stanton 767 Life Eternal...Mary Ek Knowles 768 What Is Christmas...........Alice Lee Eddy 770 Why Study Sociology?.........Harold T. Christensen 771 Three Wise Girls........Lillian McQuarrie  FUDD DDEISEIRMEIEEIPIE Claire S. Boyer 782 The Source of Radiance Is Love.........George Gardner 783 The Lotus Eater....Mabel S. Harmer 784 Christmas Tree........Blanche Kendall McKey 788 Little Moments of Eternity...........Lella Marler Hoggan 789 Annie Wells Cannon 792 Last Minute Christmas Gift Suggestions............... Leda T. Jensen 793 Notes To the Field......795 Notes From the Field........Julia A. F. Lund 797 Editorials: Peace 801 Best Wishes........ 802 Sympathy........802 Music Department (Franz Schubert)..............Ida Peterson Beal 803 He Played the Sweetest Music............Adeline R, Ensign 805 Lesson Department......... 806 My Lady Is A Rose.....Ella J. Coulam 822 Honor Roll.....823 My Surprise Garden.......Garis V. Hunt 830 Why Do We Celebrate Christmas............ Eva K. Thomas 832 Charity...Margaret E. Shrewsbury 833 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 980 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. "Everything to Furnish the Home"' THE GREATESTT VARIETY AND LARGEST STOCK OF Living Room, Dining Room and Bedroom Furniture in the Intermountain Territory 400 Suites to Choose From Granite Furniture Co. Out of the High Rent District The Home of THE ROUND OAK RANGE AND AMERICAN BEAUTY WASHER Quality and Service Come First—We Deliver Everywhere The NATIONAL siovers SPECIAL CASH AND CARRY PRICES FOR THE HOLIDAY SEASON LADIES PLAIN DRESSES MEN'S SUITS acl The new manager is an active Relief Society teacher and will appreciate your patronage Knowledge, Culture, Inspiration, Are Offered in Abundance in the Winter Quarter JANUARY 3-MARCH 18, 1938 Larger choice of courses than in any other quarter. Greater cultural opportunities: Dramas, concerts, opera. Recitals by such famous musicians as Mischa Elman and Helen Jepson. Lectures by thinkers and orators of Church, State, and Nation. Leadership Week: January 24-28 Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH ——— When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 224 East Sth South Wasatch 1835 Hor Christmas... GIVE BOOKS "There is a peculiar dignity attached io the gift of a book that is in no way affected by its price." Choose your gift books from our vast selection of titles for young and old— biography, travel, the world's great classics, the most recent fiction, and For everyday meals as well as for parties, serve Fisher's cakes, etter Doughnuts. We shall be glad to help you in your win the acclaim of your family TO mae e COMPANY American Lady Baking Company The Big Home-Owned Bak ARAL Salt Lake City, Utah "FOUR WAYS BETTER" BE SURE YOU RECEIVE THE ONE AND ONLY GENUINE UTAH "IE. SPRING CANYON COAL 1—Starts Quicker. 2—Burns Longer. 3—Less Soot. 4—Less Ash "ASK YOUR DEALER" Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Cpen Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine and wholesome, and are sure to win the acclaim of your family band your guests. Telephone Wasatch 3286 a fine selection of children's books. For Christmas give books. "There is a peculiar dignity attached to the gift oi a book that is in no way affected by its price." Choose your gift books from our vast selection of titles for young and old biography, travel, the world's great classics, the most recent fiction, and a fine selection of children's books. We shall be glad to help you in your choice., DESERET BOOK 44 East South Temple 29 Bishop's Building BIRTH OF THE REDEEMER By Merling D. Clyde Where unknown worlds their countless lights display, One Star alone shone brighter than them all: The promised sign, that He whom Wise Men call "The King of Kings" within a manger lay. A stable for abode. His bed of hay, Where long and silken garments stir The leaves to mingle with the breath of myrrh, Was Couch Divine. For God proclaimed, "This Day Oh, Shepherds of the hills, Arise! I bring To you glad tidings of the Christ, your King," And all the lowly ones of earth gave voice For Prophecy fulfilled. Oh Earth, rejoice! That in the little town of Bethlehem: The Prince of Peace came to redeem all men. The Art Institute of Chicago. VIRGIN, INFANT CHRIST, ST. CATHERINE. The 'Relief SocietY Magazine Vou. XXIV DECEMBER, 1937 No. 12 The Gift Supreme By Hugh B. Brown Yuletide is a season of gifts. We remember our friends and those whom we love and we try to express the love in some measure by giving presents. In appraising the value of any present we give or receive, we take into acocunt the motive which prompts it, its value to the one who receives it and the cost to the giver. Does love inspire the giver, does he give of himself? What sacrifice does the giving entail? Also, its value may vary according to the situation or condition of the recipient. Obviously if he is hungry or naked and we give him food or clothing or if he is in prison and we visit him and bring succor and release, the value of our gift to him can not be measured in terms of money. His need determines the value. Imagine yourself under sentence of death with no right of appeal, no hope of a pardon, unable to do anything to save yourself; doomed in the darkness to await the execution, desiring without hope. Imagine, too, that all whom you love are sentenced to a like fate and together you sit in dreadful longing, helpless, hopeless, and forlorn. What would an Opportunity to escape from such a fate mean to you? Suppose the judge had an only son who was able and willing to purchase your freedom with his life. The judge, his father, can give or refuse this costly gift, the life of his son. Would not such a gift make all things of a material value appear insignificant? Would not you and your descendants celebrate with proper observance such relief and redemption? BECAUSE of the transgression of Adam, all men are sentenced to a two-fold death; death of the body, and spiritual death—separation from God through sin. Men were doomed to await the night of death with no hope of a morning to follow that night. The tomb was a blind alley and death a dread monster. Death which separates man from all he has learned to love; wealth, fond association, friendship. | When it beckons, husband and wife must part; children and parents are separated. How universal and how sad. It comes to childhood, to youth, and to old age, but whenever it comes it is a terror to the human heart. There is the dread of the unknown and into it we all must go. Life is so short and so disappointing even to the most fruitful of lives, and until 766 Christ came, life was hopeless, death permanent. In addition to the sentence of mortality and physical death which resulted from the fall of Adam, sin and spiritual death came into the world. As physical death is a result of the separation of the spirit from the body, so spiritual death results from the withdrawing of the spirit of God from man. "Wherefore, it came to pass that the devil tempted Adam, and he partook of the forbidden fruit and transgressed the commandment, wherein he became subject to the will of the devil, because he yielded unto temptation. Wherefore, I, the Lord God, caused that he should be cast out from the Garden of Eden, from my presence, because of his transgression, wherein he became spiritually dead, which is the first death, even that same death which is the last death, which is spiritual, which shall be pronounced upon the wicked when I shall say: depart, ye cursed." (D. & C. 29: 40, 41.) On the subject of spiritual life and spiritual death, Elder B. H. Roberts has written: "Spiritual life, being union with, relation to and participation in all the higher and better things: the good, the true, the beautiful, the pure, the refined, the noble, the courageous, the unselfish, the merciful; united with perfect justice, knowledge, wisdom, power, intelligence. To be identified with and to participate in these moral and spiritual qualities and the life of it, is and must be God, and to so deport oneself that he is thrown out of harmony with all this, separated. From it, means separation from him who is the life of all this volume of higher and better things, this body of soul qualities, this ocean of righteousness—to be separated from it, I say, is death indeed! Yes, spiritual death; death as real as any physical RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE death can be. For what would consciousness amount to if it were only a consciousness of evil that had befallen it?" IN THIS situation then, man was helpless. There was no price that he could pay which would redeem him from the fall. The judge, in this case, God, had a son who could satisfy the demands of justice, redeem men from the fall and open the gate to immortality. Our Father made this priceless gift; our Savior paid the debt. "Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: _the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed." (Isa. 53:4, 5) "The gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord." "For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive." The full benefit of the atonement, however, comes to us only upon condition of our obedience to the Gospel plan. We must accept this plan and comply with its ordinances by "performing the symbols which stand for its reality." We must repent of sin, return from it, sin no more, and when we have fully repented and complied with that other requirement of the Gospel, namely. Water baptism, immersion of the entire body, representing death, burial, and the resurrection, when we have done these things and have been confirmed by those having authority and have received the gift of the Holy Ghost, we are in the way to become recipients of all the blessings of the atonement of Jesus Christ and to have that continuous fellowship with him which shall be the reward of THE GIFT SUPREME the faithful. Obedience is as necessary as the plan itself. Obedience is evidence of acceptance, and no plan, however perfect, is fully effective unless accepted and worked. But while it is necessary that we accept and obey the Gospel, it is a free gift to all men, beneficial in part without regard to their own action, and in full by obedience to the laws upon which its blessings are predicated. WHAT then of the value or importance of this gift of God— this Gospel plan, including the atonement of Christ. "What does it mean, this salvation! It means to be put in the way of eternal progression; to be associated with the church of the First Born, both on earth and in heaven; to be associated with angels and archangels as companions and guides; increasing in knowledge and wisdom with the passing years. Having triumphed over death, physical and spiritual, there is no more fear of death, or estoppage in the path of progress. With good men for associates and God for leader and guide, men may go on and up the shining heights of God's great highway, until they make themselves masters of the surrounding universe in the midst of which they live. Light and intelligence and love will be aglow in their hearts then. All the beautiful relationships that were 767 formed in earth-life will be re-established there; husband and wife, children and parents, kindred and friends, knitted together in kinship and brotherhood; all this will abound; touching the life of that brotherhood which binds God's moral and spiritual universe together through the union of all the great Intelligences governing _ therein. Those who participate in this Gospel, in this salvation, will be members of such brotherhood, going on in spiritual, moral, and_ intellectual progress without limitation!'' (Roberts.) Without the atonement of Christ, man would have remained in darkness, not only without a hope of resurrection from the dead but doomed to suffer that spiritual death which comes through sin. His poSition, then, was desperate, was hopeless, and without a redeemer he was lost. But the Gospel plan, the gift supreme, inspired by the love of God—involving a supreme sacrifice on the part of the giver brings life everlasting, eternal joy and endless progress to all who accept its benefits. "Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his son to be a propitiation for our sins." (Jno. 4:10.) "Thanks be to God for Hts unspeakable gift.' (II Cor. 9:15.) HEARTSONG Gertrude Perry Stanton If I might choose the richest gift That Providence could impart, *Twould not be beauty, wealth nor fame,— Just the boon of a singing heart. For life and love are harsh sometimes, And stinging tears will start,— But with courage I will lift my head And carry a song in my heart. . Life Eyam By Mary Ek Knowles HE silent men tenderly laid | their burdens on the bed, and heads bared filed out of the room. At the door the last man paused and spoke, his voice gruffly kind. 'Time is short, Sister Smith. We fear the mob." The door closed and Lucy Mack Smith was alone with her dead. For a moment she remained standing at the side of the bed, her eyes wide, her fingers pressed tightly against her mouth as if to hold back the screams that threatened to burst from her lips. Then with a dry sob she fell to her knees, her arms outstretched across the lifeless forms of her two sons. For this she had carried her sons tenderly within the walls of her body; for this she had gone down into the valley of the shadow of death that they might have life; for this, that on a sultry summer night she might stand in a dimly-lit, shuttered room and look down upon the bodies of her sons, murdered at the hands of a mob! Where now was the power and the glory! Where now the flame of faith, burning like a fire on the mountain top! Her sons were dead! She raised her head, her eyes tenderly caressing the dear lines of the faces, and her heart was a wounded thing, torn and bleeding in her breast. Joseph and Hyrum. Tall, splendid men, foully struck down in the prime of their lives. And why, why! Where was the justice... Men, now... But she had held them as babes in her arms, helpless and_ infinitely dear; on bended knees, with outstretched arms she had guided their first faltering steps; she had felt their chubby, warm hands trustingly in her own.... She too was dead. Her body lived, but her heart, her soul had died. How could she bear this thing. She was but human! She gave way to loud, passionate weeping, and the nervous shuffle of feet sounded in the next room. She checked her sobs. She must be quiet. Even now the mob might be near, eager to descend like vultures and tear the lifeless forms limb from limb. Those men in the next room knew, they had reason to be afraid. With their own eyes they had seen a crowd of men turn suddenly from humans into animals, blood-thirsty and insane; with their own ears they had heard the voice of the mob grow from a rippling murmur to a maddened roar! They had seen Hyrum and _ the Prophet murdered in cold blood. They had rescued the bodies during that brief respite when the mob, appalled by the enormity of the crime they had committed, fled, as though in fleeing the scene of the crime they could forget what they had done. Those men in the next room knew. And she had known. That silver cord between mothers and their children, was it ever severed? In the dead of the night the sharp report of a shot had awakened her, and her first thought had been of Hyrum and Joseph. In the hours that followed she had attempted to reassure herself. "They are in jail, but they are safe. Justice will be shown them. The false charges will be dropped and they will be freed." But there had been no answering echo in her heart. She had known they were dead. LIFE ETERNAL NOW to bid goodby to her sons! Hyrum! From childhood he had been passionately loyal to Joseph. And his loyalty had meant his death. Joseph! Was ever there so sweet a child... Joseph as a lad... In patched and torn trousers, and ragged shirt, his brown hair sticking through the holes in his battered hat. His quiet, serious laughter like glints of sunshine on a still, deep pool. Always he had been a meditative lad, content to sit for hours by the window, his young chin cupped in his hands, his eyes gazing off into space, his mind wondering about great things. There had been about Joseph, even from the first, that spirit which set him apart from his brothers and sisters. That clear April day when he had come to her and told her of his vision in the grove. Strange, holy words to fall from the lips of a boy. Yet there had been no blasphemy, no note of levity in his tone. Impossible to believe what he said, yet, looking into his clear eyes she had known that he spoke the truth, that indeed he had talked with God, and her being had thrilled at the knowledge. And this was the end! These lifeless, quiet forms, the saddened, stunned men in the next room. So much her son had accomplished, her son, Joseph, standing head and shoulders above the crowd, his manner and appearance a kingly one. Without schooling, without learning, he had founded a new religion, a University, planned and built a city, sent missionaries to every part of the globe. He deserved a better end than this. Where, Oh God, was justice! The minutes were fleeing fast. They pressed in upon her, ruthless, smothering. She muffled her sobs against the bedclothes and her tears flowed anew. Pitifully, frantically, 709 her mind searched for some one thing, some one thought that would give her comfort in her hour of need. But she could find nothing. Again and again she returned to her bereavement, and her grief became a two-edged sword turning in her heart. It became a torture too painful to be borne in silence and she cried aloud, "Help me, God! Help me to understand. Give me, Oh I pray Thee, strength in my hour of need." As she prayed, the pain left her body, her mind became as a clear, quiet, stream flowing forward in the stillness. The thought came to her, "I am not the first. I am not the first mother to mourn on bended knee at the side of her son. Elizabeth, mother of John the Baptist. She had her tray. Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ. With agonized heart she watched Him die. She had her cross." Then came the thought like a bright blade of steel flashing in the sun. "God chose them to be the mothers of His chosen ones. And He chose me." Elizabeth and Mary. They had known sorrow deeper than tears. Their sons had died. Martyrs, too. Dead? Christ dead? Every Christmas did not Christianity celebrate the birthday of a living Christ? Would He die as long as love, mercy and faith were in the hearts of men? Had not the ages woven love for Him into the very fiber and being of man, made of each truth He taught a precious jewel sparkling in the sun? Christ would never die! Was Joseph dead? The mortal remains, yes. The body would return to the dust from whence it came. But the spirit, the Word of Truth! Through Christ they were eternal. In that moment Lucy saw into the future, saw Joseph's followers, led by the spirit of God, trekking off across the plains to a place where 770 they could worship in peace. She saw a city built in the tops of the Rocky Mountains, and Joseph's followers growing from thousands to millions, spreading the Faith to every corner of the globe! UCY rose to her feet, her hands clasped before her. Joseph Smith, the Prophet, would never die. Like Jesus Christ, his memory, his Word of Truth, were eternal! Head held high, with queenly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE grace she walked across the room, opened the door, said, "You may take them now." Her voice was calm. Her face radiant. THE End NOTE The incidents recounted in the story "Life Eternal" are neither authentic nor recorded, but fiction, based upon a supposition of what might have happened following the martyrdom. & WHAT IS CHRISTMAS? Alice Lee Eddy ing translating tradition. Maybe. Defenses loyalty. Mankind. Christmas is not a day, a deed, a season. Christmas is joyous heart and generous mind. Those memories Christmas is a happy reaffirming Of hope and faith, whate'er our faith A pause to build anew our soul's And pledge once more our trust and Christmas is a shimmering ideal Of brotherhood, and peace to huChristmas is a sanctified rememberOf dreams and joys of childhood's glad condition, And to our children's children a into well-loved Why Study Sociology? By Harold T. Christensen Y THE statement, "It is not good that the man should be alone,' the Lord intended to illustrate the natural relationship between man and woman existing in marriage according to plan. It has, however, even wider application than this. Groups of men may be companions to each other as well as may groups of women. Furthermore, mixed groups contain the element of companionship even where the marriage relation does not exist. Life as we know it is essentially group life. Living entirely alone is extremely rare in society, and where it does occur it is accompanied by a shrivelling of personality, and the individual so isolated develops characteristics which are odd, infantile, and sometimes savage. You and I were given birth by others. We grow and develop with the help of others, and we can be made happy only through the association and companionship of those around us. The abundant life is group life, and I repeat, "It is not good for man to be alone." But even though this group phenomenon makes possible the happiness of man it certainly does not ensure or guarantee such happiness. Sometimes the interactions of human beings one with another are unbalanced, lop-sided, or disharmonious; while sometimes they result in the supreme joy which God intended. Too often the associations of men with each other result in sensuous satisfactions or even discomfort and sorrow. Hence the need for understanding the nature of group relationships, that social frictions might be eliminated and social harmony established. Sociology is intended to meet this need. The science of sociology may be defined, as that science which deals with the behavior of men in groups, and is specifically concerned with person to person contacts, with person to group contacts, and with group to group contacts. Sociology is distinct from economics, which is the study of the production, distribution and consumption of wealth; it is distinct from political science, which is concerned with the structure and function of government; and it is distinct from others of social sciences which, like these mentioned, are each concerned with only one phase of the entire field of social interaction. Sociology, being the science of group behavior, draws material from every corner of human culture. WHY Study Sociology? Of what value is an understanding of the nature of the human relationships? The world today is almost lost in an avalanche of social turmoil—wars and revolutions, poverty and famine, political corruption, crime, suicide, all bearing mute evidence of a ruptured humanity. "Man is that he might have joy," and yet social relationships have become so perverted and corrupted that the happiness which might have been, scarcely exists. Witness the fact that from fifteen to twenty thousand individuals in the United States every year wilfully take their own lives, and the suicide rates throughout the world are on the increase. I am sure that if these individuals understood the spiritual possibilities in the Church, and the harmony possible 772 in social relationships, their fingers would hesitate at the trigger, because then they would know that life, after all, is worth living. All is not well with the world today, and sociology can be one means to the end of setting it right and establishing happiness. HAT the importance of social study might be further emphasized, it will be well to consider briefly a few of the major contemporary social problems existing in the world today. These will certainly not represent all of the maladjustments rampant in society, but they will at least suggest the nature and extent of contemporary social disorganization, and disorganization must be understood before reorganization can commence. Let us consider, then, the following in the order given: 1. Family Problems. 2. Economic Insecurity. 3. Ill Health. 4. Crime. 5. War. HE family has been considered the most basic of all social institutions, and rightly so I think, for it is the group that first gives man membership and initiates him into the complexities of social life. The early family formed the hub of social existence. In it birth, marriage. Death and all of the vital events of life, took place. In it children were educated for the moral and social problems of the day. In the early family religion found a center, as likewise did economic life, recreation and government. But as society has moved onward, untold numbers of new social groups have come into existence, and in doing so have come into competition with the family. As a result the family has been robbed of many of these original social functions and is left today stripped, weak, and tottering. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Any organization is justified in existence by the functions it performs, and when it ceases to function it ceases to exist. What has happened in regards to the family? At the present time education has largely gone out of the home; government is almost entirely in the hands of the State; recreation has been turned over to commercial agencies; economic life, which was formerly on the family basis has now been placed almost entirely on an individual basis; religion, with the possible exception of the ideal "Mormon" family, has passed from the protecting care of the family; and soon. With the birthrate decreasing rapidly, as it is today, it even looks as though the reproductive function of the family is also passing away; in fact, many authorities in sociology agree that about the only leg left for the family to stand on is the affectional bond existing between husband and wife, and some even claim that this affectional function is also going from the home. Genuine affection is being supplanted by a shallow sentimentalism known as romance. Real love, which consists, I am sure, of intellectual companionship and spiritual harmony, as well as physical and emotional attraction, is being replaced by a croon song, "live happily ever after' sort of thing, which is warping the judgment of our young people, making them feel that there is nothing serious to marriage, no thought, no preparation, no sacrifice, making our young people feel that eternal happiness is assured them if only the "one and only" is captured—and too often the capturing process consists of displaying physical charms and intellectual emptiness. Love is being robbed of its intellectual and spiritual qualities, and what is left can only result in failure. Authorities in discussing this problem refer to it frequently WHY STUDY SOCIOLOGY? As the ''romantic fallacy." Now the romantic fallacy is not a fallacy in the existence of romance and affection, for certainly every marriage should have this tender element to lubricate the social relationships if nothing else. The romantic fallacy, however, consists of the existence of romance in a disproportionate amount, the existence of romance, in the absence of some of the more fundamental functions of the family such as reproduction, economics, education and so on. What is needed ls a deflation of romance, and an inflation of some of the more substantial elements entering into love and marriage. The family today is in a sorry plight. The 1930 census revealed that there was one divorce for every six marriages in the United States, and the divorce rate was still on the increase. This means that at the present time we have about one divorce for every five or five and a half marriages in this country. Certainly the divorce rate is not that high among the Latter-day Saints. But the divorce rate, on the other hand, is higher among other groups. Add to this the many thousands of desertions which take place each year throughout the United States, and to this the many hundreds of thousands of couples who are living together even though their relationship is incompatible, being held together only by the expense and stigma of divorce, and you get some idea of the heartaches and sorrows which exists in the very type of group relationship that should produce the greatest happiness possible for man to obtain. So you can see that a great deal yet needs to be done. What is being done? We have certain private and governmental agencies that are interested in the problem. In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints we are 773 facing the problem, I think, to a degree, but even here there is yet much work ahead of us. The idea of Temple marriage certainly can and does help, because in Temple marriage we dignify and spiritualize and strengthen this bond that is so often treated lightly by the world. But even so, the conditions in our own Latter-day Saint communities are not the best. While the divorce rate is lower than that of the Nation, still a divorce rate exists, and the same can be said of desertion and of incompatibility. Family problems stare us in the face as challenges to be met. I have only touched upon a few angles of family maladjustment, but these few perhaps will suggest the tasks which lie before us in the realm of courtship, marriage and the family. The young people of today need the help and cooperation of their parents, of their teachers, and of their religious leaders. The young people of today need more than vague warnings and emotional condemnations to keep them straight. They need sympathetic understanding and enlightened counseling, and both of these can come from a study of sociology. HE second problem is that of economic insecurity. The world has progressed in a phenomenal way during the last two or three hundred years, economically, mechanically and industrially. The standard of 'living has been doubled and trebled; —the radio, the talking picture, the telephone, the airplane, the electric light, and thousands of other inventions have given us comforts and luxuries which even kings dared not dream about not so long ago. Yet in spite of all this material advancement the world remains economically ill. Social relationships have not kept up with industrial progress, and 774 the gap between the two has created disturbances which are serious — challenges to you and to me. In spite of the fact that the standard of living has been greatly raised, thousands of people are suffering for want of the ordinary necessities of life, shivering from cold in the winter, going hungry all the year round, suffering from malnutrition, deprived of medical attention, and so on. Even though the wealth of the world has greatly increased, it has not been put to the most profitable use. Wealth has certainly not been distributed on an equal basis. At the present time in the United States about 1% of the people own over half of the wealth, whereas 90% of the people own only about 10% of the wealth. Poverty is very extensive, reliable estimates placing from 10% to 30% of the population in this class. Unemployment runs into the millions. Estimates vary on the exact amount, but why should anyone in a country like this be deprived of the right to work in support of himself and his loved ones! Someone has said, "It is a mad world, which finds men povertystricken in the midst of plenty, nations starving when there is too much food." Economic security is a crying need in the world today. What are we doing about it? The Federal Government is spending millions of dollars each year in relief work and in social security programs, programs which are reaching our own local - communities. Private agencies everywhere are doing what they can to make their contributions. The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been very helpful along these lines. The Church has recently attracted worldwide attention by announcing and putting into operation a security program that hopes to give work to all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the able-bodied within the Church, and direct relief to those who are incapacitated, but the goal most certainly has not been reached as yet. Much work is before us, and this is a challenge to the Relief Society and to the Church. Why study Sociology—that this one more threat to social happiness might be eliminated. THE third problem that I would bring to your attention is that of physical mental ill health. As in the field of economics, so also in the field of health, phenomenal advancements have been made during recent years; advancements in diet, sanitation, medical care, and surgery. But in spite of all this, the world today is literally sick. Do you realize that on the average every person in the United States loses from about five to ten days work each year on account of illness, and do you realize that approximately 2% of the entire population is bed-ridden at any one time? This is in addition to the many hundreds of thousands of persons who are chronically ill, though not bed-ridden, and whose efhiicency is thereby seriously reduced. It is true that the average length of life has been increased from somewhere between thirty or forty years to about fifty-seven years for men and sixty years for women. But this increase has come about largely through the great inroads made upon the death rate of mothers at child birth, the death rate of infants under one year of age, and the general death rates from infectious and contagious diseases. Decreases in the death rate have largely been in the younger age groups of the population. Figures show that the death-rate of those past the age of forty-five has actually been on the increase. Figures also show that in spite of the great advancement made on contagious diseases, which affect WHY STUDY SOCIOLOGY? Persons of young ages chiefly, the death rate from ailments such as cancer, heart disease, etc., which affect the middle aged and the old, has actually been on the increase, indicating that gains made in one way may be lost in another. This fact, along with the increase in accident rate, especially from automobile traffic, indicates that the time may not be far distant when the average length of life, instead of increasing further, will actually decrease. I am not decrying the progress which has been made, only emphasizing that there is much yet to be done. In the field of inental health we likewise have our problems. Approximately 1 per cent of the population of this nation must be regarded as feeble-minded, and from 5 per cent to 10 per cent of the population become mentally ill, to use the popular term "insane," sometime during life according to statistical estimates, and furthermore insanity is on the increase. It seems that the rapid tempo of modern life, together with its growing complexity, contribute to the increase of insanity. These figures and facts also present a challenge to the Church and to the Relief Society. What is being done in the Church? The Latter-day Saint Church has always been noted for its healthful way of living. The Word of Wisdom, like the Social Security Plan, has attracted world-wide attention. It has made Latter-day Saints distinctive, and its results have been good. The death-rate is not so high in the Church, nor is the rate of sickness, but in spite of this there is altogether too much of both. The Relief Society has played its part from the beginning—visiting the sick, providing for the needy, ete. These are no small contributions, but in spite of them all the world is still literally sick. Add all these indices 775 of health together-—disease, physical breakdown, accidents, feeble-mindedness, insanity and so on—and you will wonder who is left healthy and free. The physical and mental wellbeing of society is not in good shape. HE fourth problem to be reviewed briefly is that of crime. Government is organized in society for the protection of life and property. Laws are set up to govern people, to see that individuals, institutions, and groups do not infringe upon the rights of other individuals, institutions and groups. But when governments become weak and corrupt these controls have little or no effect and crime flourishes as a consequence. Now to say that crime in the United States is due to a weak and corrupt government, would certainly be wrong, but to say that the extent of crime in this country is due to weak and corrupt politicians, who have wormed their way into government circles, would not be wrong. Too often in our society, certainly not always but too often, politicians and the criminals are in partnership. As long as there are such conditions, I am convinced that American democracy will exist in name only. For the preservation of freedom and liberty which are essential to democracy, we must stamp out political corruption and crime. There is a bit of irony in the fact that this very nation which has championed the course of democracy now has the reputation of being the most crime-ridden nation in the world. Figures show that one per- _ son out of every hundred in the United States has been convicted of crime, and five persons out of every hundred have been arrested at one time or another. Figures show that we have over 150,000 inmates housed in the Federal and State Penitentiaries of the land. Add to this number the hundreds of thousands in 776 local jails, the hundreds of thousands on probation and parole, and the untold numbers who are never caught, and you have some idea of the extent of crime in this country. Furthermore crime is on the increase. Where is it all going to end? No one can tell. We know what we would like, we know what the conditions are, and the fate of the Nation remains in our hands. I refer, of course, to all citizens of the United States. Latter-day Saints have always been noted for their emphasis upon law observance, and this emphasis has had its results. The crime rates in our local communities are not as high on the average as in most communities. But Iam sure that if you will observe the crime records in our own communities, you will nevertheless be startled; they are not at all flattering. Political corruption needs to be stamped out; indifference to laws and government needs to be corrected; crime detection needs to be improved; and studies on the cause of crime and the treatment of the criminal need to be expanded. All of these are tasks which lie before the student of contemporary social problems, and this is another reason why members of the Relief Society should study sociology. HE fifth problem I would like to consider in order to illustrate the importance of social study and social work, is the problem of War, a problem which in our present setting may seem a little distant and far away but a problem which nevertheless is just as serious, just as demanding of our attention, perhaps more so, than any of these other four problems discussed. The problem of War is most serious because it involves life itself, the very heart of civilization. In personal disorganization, suicide and insanity are the end products; in family disorganization RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE divorce ana desertion are the most serious evidences of maladjustment; while in community disorganization war and revolution are the final extremes to which the disorganization may run. We may think that as society moves on, and man lives longer in social groups, he would learn to get along with others better and hence war and the possibility of war would decrease as society becomes older. This is a logical deduction, but such is not the case in fact. Studies reveal that the last quarter of a century or so has been the most bloody part century of any century recorded in history. This is true from the standpoints of the size of armies, of war expenditures, and of war casualties. We talk of peace, but the peace machinery of the world has been largely broken down. The tast World war, in round numbers, cost humanity about forty million lives either directly or indirectly, and about four hundred billion dollars. These lives have not been redeemed through social advancement, and the borrowed money has never been repaid, perhaps never will be. The end is not yet. Only yesterday we read of the war in Ethiopia, and revolutions in various parts of the world. Today the war in Spain is only overshadowed by the terrible atrocities taking place in China. The feelings of the nations of the world are on edge; no one knows when they may break into flame. To you and me, located here in the heart of the Rocky Mountains, perhaps war is further removed than it is to some others. But many of you in this audience will remember the loss of loved ones in the last Wortd War, and remembering this you will realize that the possibilitiy for the future is not too bright. - The world was not made safe for democracy in the last World war. It is scarcely safe for anything at WHY STUDY SOCIOLOGY? the present time, and it will never be made safe by war. The only way that peace can be established is by mending the torn fibres of social relationships in such a way that love will take the place of hate and cooperation will supplant the ugly conflict of war and revolution. Call this Utopia, perfectionalism, millennium or what you like, but it must come before social life can produce the supreme joy and contentment which lie intrinsically within it. The task is a large one but it is not impossible, and therein lies our hope. THESE five major social problems which have been the "meat" of our discussion this afternoon— family maladjustment, economic insecurity, ill health, crime, and war— are by no means the only problems with which society has to deal. Furthermore, my discussion of them has been altogether too brief and general; but regardless, I am sure that some of the symptoms of a sick humanity have at least been illustrated. Allis not well with the world, neither at home nor abroad, and you and I cannot afford to be indifferent. There is important work to be done. Society will not be reorganized in a day, nor by the Relief Society alone, nor certainly not by this talk, but all helps. NOT many centuries ago our pilgrim fathers were fighting for life and freedom upon the frontiers of a new continent. Fewer than one hundred years have passed away since our own grandparents rallied to the leadership of Brigham Young and braved the dangers of an 777 unconquered expanse of territory to make one of the greatest treks known in history. Pioneers, all of them, struggling to push the frontiers of their day into the distant horizons of the morrow, and they succeeded very well; you and I are now enjoying innumerable conveniences and comforts made possible only by the courage of these who have gone before. But these frontiers of our forefathers, instead of vanishing, have only shifted to new fields. Land for colonization is almost gone, it is true, but the social fields of today are just beginning to be opened up. They are rough and are full of rocks and weeds; they need to be conquered and cultivated. The tasks which lie before you and me, though different in their nature, are just as important and just as challenging as those of our fathers. There are religious groups in the world which make the mistake of attacking these social problems from an emotionalized spiritual point of view only. There are other groups, non-religious in nature, which make an equal mistake in attacking the problems from a cold intellectual point of view alone. We need both approaches. Inspiration should be supported by information; spirituality should always accompany intellectuality. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and the National Woman's Relief Society are both richly endowed with all of the elements necessary in the solution of our great problems. Sisters of the Relief Society, may we accept the challenges which lie on the social frontiers of life, and may we lift the horizons of today to new heights. Three Wise Girls By Lillian McQuarrie WILLIE sang from the bathroom, "I don't want to make « hist-o-ry," and Esther, in the dining room, tittered. The bathroom door slammed suddenly with such violence the three little girls jumped. "What did he do that for?" Ruth, the youngest, wanted to know, her blond curls bobbing. Mother rushed in from the back porch where she was sweeping snow. It was a week before Christmas and the snow was deep. "What was that?' eyes were startled. "Willie's mad at something!" Janette's thin, dark little face clouded. "We don't know what." A young man appeared in the suddenly opened doorway. Onehalf of his face was covered with lather. Willie was twenty-one, and Mother's youngest brother. "Your innocent children," he announced with fine sarcasm, "are up to their tricks—watching me and snickering." Esther's eyebrows shot up. Esther was the oldest-—almost thirteen. "Mother," she said, "we weren't even looking at Willie. We were clearing the dishes." "I wish you weren't so sensitive lately, Will," Mother said. "I'm sure the girls would leave you alone if you didn't get so upset every time they make a move." Mother went outside again, and Willie closed the bathroom door. "What's the matter with him?" Ruth asked in a loud whisper. Her brown "Sh!" Janette said. "He's in love." She looked up at her older sister for confirmation. "Isn't he, Esther?" The tawny-haired Esther nodded. Little ten-year-old Ruth spread her hands and hunched her shoulders with delight. But she knew better than to make a sound. Willie was always having outbursts lately. She couldn't understand why he had stopped playing with them, or picking them up and roughing them when they ran to meet him after work. But she had a feeling it was connected with Fay Hughes, nineteen, who lived next door. Summer before last Fay had moved in and Willie used to slip over and talk to her on her front porch in the evening. Soon they were going driving in his old car. But now, somehow, Willie wasn't a bit himself. After Willie left for the office, Mother said, "Girls, I want you to be careful of Willie's feelings." There was sympathy in her kind, brown eyes, but a twinkle, too. "Unhappy people are likely to be cross. Or maybe we should say 'people who are cross are unhappy.' " Esther said, "What's Willie unhappy about, Mother? Honestly, we didn't do a thing to him. He was singing that old song about 'I don't want to make history, I just want to make love,' and I laughed. That's all." "That's enough," Mother said, rather crisply. The girls had an uncomfortable feeling, as Mother went upstairs, that they were guilty of something. But they did not know what it was. "I think I know why Willie's unhappy," dark little Janette said, brightening. 'Did you hear him talking to Daddy this morning? He didn't know whether to buy Fay THREE WISE GIRLS a diamond for Christmas, or himself a new car. What does he want to give Fay a diamond for, Esther?" "So they can get engaged," Esther said. "When you want to marry someone you give them a diamond ring and then you're engaged." The blond youngest child listened, wide-eyed, but made no comment. WO days later Willie drove home in a shiny new car. The girls heard him say to Daddy at dinner, "Well, Larry, I guess the diamond's out." "Too bad, old man," Daddy said. "But you're young, and there are dozens of Fays in the world." Willie laughed, but the girls listening knew that it wasn't a happy laugh. When Esther came up to bed she was quiet for a long time. At last she said, "Willie had a quarrel with Fay yesterday." "A quarrel!" straight in bed. "Like we used to have when we were young?" Ruth asked, incredulous. "Yes," Esther said, "and I have a grand idea. Let's put our money together and buy a gift for Fay— from Willie!" "But we won't have any left over for Moth—" Janette began. Esther interrupted. "I saw just the thing downtown yesterday. A real honest-to-goodness Mexican diamond for only four dollars and fifty cents." "My goodness!" Janette "Four dollars and fifty cents!" Ruth's eyes were as big as saucers. "A real Mexican diamond?" Janette said, "And will we have to tell Mother and Daddy we haven't bought anything for them?" "Well," Esther said. 'Willie is closer to Mother than we are because he's her brother. So if we make Janette sat up said. 779 Willie happy Mother will be happy, and if she is, Daddy will be. See? So it's a sort of present for everybody." "Well, I want to see the Mexican diamond first, before we buy it," Janette said, cautiously. But her caution was swept away and she and Ruth fell in love with the diamond instantly when they saw it glittering in its velvet nest in the showcase. Ruth clapped her hands in ecstasy. Esther said, "See? Wouldn't Fay be beautiful in that? With her blue eyes looking at it, and the diamond sparkling on her white hand?" "Oh, it's—grand-elegrant?" Ruth cried. "Maybe she'll let us try it on." But Janette did not want to be rushed into anything. "That's a lot of money for a diamond, after the way we've borrowed ahead on our 'lowances, and we still lack a quarter. Now a box of candy, maybe. Let's just buy Fay a box of candy and get engaged that way." "Sh—" Esther said, nudging Janette. '"You have to have a ring. And anyway, it's for Willie, silly." Y Christmas Eve the three girls had almost despaired. They had borrowed to the limit of their allowances, and had even touched Willie for fifty cents, which he let them have, absently. They succeeded in getting the final quarter from father which he let them have only by sign-« ing a receipt for it. He looked at them thoughtfully. "However," he said, "it's in stamps." They did not hear him chuckling over it with mother, later, nor explaining that he believed in creating little special problems. Esther was disappointed. "I wonder if the man will take stamps." "It's too late to wonder," Janette cried. "Get your coats. Mother 780 promised we could go downtown alone." "And it's nearly dark!' Ruth added, her eyes round. At the jewelry store the man smiled. "Yes, it's still here. Do you want it wrapped as a gift?" "Yes," Esther said. "And could you engrave a name on it?" "What name do you want?" the man asked. "To Fay from Willie,' Esther said, thoughtfully. They waited, looking at each other breathlessly, saying nothing. Soon the man came back. As he wrapped the box he said, "There will be an extra charge of ten cents for the engraving." Esther slumped dramatically. "We haven't got that much," she said. "Only four dollars and fifty cents. And twenty-five cents is in stamps." There was a long pause, as the man put seals on the little box. "Oh," he said, at last, "that'll be all right. Here's a card to write the name on." He handed them the box. 'Merry Christmas to you," he smiled. They sighed with relief when they got outside, and began to run. They ran almost all the way home. But even before they opened the door they heard sounds of trouble. Willie was turning the radio on so loud it was deafening. And then he was turning it off again. It had to be Willie. It couldn't be Mother or Father. The three girls took off their wraps, and Ruth danced up and down. "Here, Daddy," Esther said. "Put this gift on the tip-top of the tree.'' "Who's it for?" Esther took up a pen from the desk and wrote "Fay" on the card. But Father looked at the package and then at Willie. He shook his head. "Too bad," he said. "Wild horses RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE couldn't drag Fay into this house." Ruth said, "Daddy, Willie will bring her. Won't you, Willie?" "Say—-" Willie began with scorn. And then, "Willie! Willie, Willie, Willie is all I hear! Why can't you call me Bill or something? Will-ee!"' He ran up the stairs, turning at the landing, "You kids make me tired!" They heard his door slam behind him. HREE little faces looked blank, and then horrified. Janette dropped into a chair and Esther slumped to the Chesterfield. Ruth just stood, looking at the empty tree Mother and Daddy would trim after they were in bed. Mother said, "What's up? It can't be that bad, surely?" And Daddy laughed. "You little women have been so wrapped up in giving that you haven't given a thought to what you're going to get!" He sounded mysterious, but it didn't help any. Ruth climbed up on his lap and began sobbing, too disappointed to say anything. "Hop into bed," Daddy said, after a while. “Bedtime comes early on Christmas Eve." But sleep would not come. They could hear faintly the voices of Mother and Daddy, and the crackle of paper. They heard Mother say, after a while, "Here, Larry. Christmas Eve is the time to open packages. Merry Christmas, dear." Esther leaped out of bed. "I know what we'll do. We'll take that present over to Fay right now!" She ran to the head of the stairs. "Mother!" she called. "Mother, please, would you mind handing me that present? The one for Fay?" Mother did not ask questions. She only smiled. But Esther was trembling for fear she would say some- THREE WISE GIRLS thing. When she came back to the bedroom she was smiling. "Get your clothes on. We're going over to Fay's." They dressed, breathlessly, and tiptoed down the back stairs. The gate between the two houses stood ajar, and they were careful not io touch it because of the squeak in it. Mr. Hughes answered the docr. "Well, well, well!" he cried. "Three wise men come to visit us on Christmas Eve! No, three wise women, as I live!" "Sh!" Esther said, her finger on her lips. She glanced back toward the darkened kitchen of her own home. "Oh, Mr. Hughes," Janette said, "is Fay home?" "I should think she is," the man boomed. "Crying her heart out on Christmas Eve!" They followed him into the sitting room. Fay was lying on her face, one arm under her, but sne sat up when they came in. The Christmas tree stood by the radiator, heavily laden, and strung with icicles. "You have company, Fay," Mr. Hughes said. Mrs. Hughes was wrapping packages at the table. Fay leaped to her feet. Her eyes, the girls thought, were more blue and beautiful than ever, even though she had been crying, and they had never seen her golden hair so lovely. It was out of order and not primly tucked behind her ears in smooth waves tonight. "Mother says," Esther began, "that Christmas Eve is the time to open presents. So we've brought one over to you." Fay's eyes filled with tears again. "Who's—who's it from?" Her voice was hushed, and she looked scared. "Look and see!" Ruth cried. Fay's slender fingers trembled as 781 she opened it, and when she saw the ring box she sat down. At the sight of the glittering gem she cried, "Oh! Oh!" She slipped the ring on her finger. "Look inside of it!" Ruth said. Fay inspected the ring, reading slowly. ''It's—it's from——Willie!" Mrs. Hughes said, "Have some candy, youngsters. Is Willie home?" "Oh, Mother!" Fay protested. "No, thank you, Mrs. Hughes," Esther said. "Yes, Willie's home!" Tears were in her voice. She clutched her sister's hands. '"Well, she said, "we've got to be going." They were out the front door and half-way up the front walk of their own home before Janette caught her breath. 'What did you drag us away for, Esther? I wanted to see what she'd do." "We had to get out of there before we told her we bought it!" Esther said. "Oh, I'm all mixed up myself!" Ruth began to cry. "This is the worst Christmas—' But. Esther opened the door. Willie was sitting with Mother and Father, in his new robe. They were all eating popcorn. "Well!" Mother exclaimed. "We've been over to Fay's,'"' Janette burst out. "We took her the ring ourselves!" "What ring?" Willie sprang up, excited. "What ring? Tell me, quick!" "An engagement ring," Ruth said. "A real Mexican diamond!" Willie collapsed into a chair. "Now wouldn't you just know it!" He ran his fingers through his hair and glared at the children. He was breathing hard. "She'll think I sent them! She'll think I bought an old, cheap ring!" "It's not—ch—cheap!" Janette cried, biting her lip. But the tears came, anyway. The phone rang. "If that's for 782 me," Willie shouted to Mother as she moved toward the phone, "I'm not in. Oh, I'll have to drown myself!' But he beat Mother to the phone and lifted the receiver. They all watched his face, and after the first "Hello" it changed unbelievably. His voice softened, and he smiled. "Yes," he said, at last, "I'll be right over." He whirled and ran up the stairs, and Esther turned to Mother. "We had both of their names put in the ring so—so they would be engaged!" Mother and Daddy laughed. Willie came down the stairs three RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at a time. He had almost reached the hall when he stopped. "Hey!" he called, and there was such gladness in his voice the girls ran to him. "'Listen,'' he said, bending down and whispering, "Don't tell your mother and dad, but here's a little present for the swellest nieces a guy ever had!'' And when he closed the door behind him there were three one dollar bills clutched in three little hands. "Oh!" Ruth crowed, grand-elegant!" "And he looked happy!" Janette said, giggling. "Like he ought to—he's engaged," Esther said. Joy Claire S. Boyer Joy is the miracle of love Suspended as a star, The spirit's own divinity Lifted afar. AS The Source of Radiance Is Love" By George Gardner ONE of the great masters searched his land for a model from which to paint a portrait of the Christ. After many years of search, the great painter found a young man, in every way the ideal for his model. During the painting of the picture there grew a close friendship between the two. The divine radiance which suited the young man to this high and rare opportunity, so the young man said, was due to an emotion he felt within. The inward emotion, he confided to the master, was due to the daily association with a young lady of rare and lovely qualities. The young man was soon to marry her. After the painting was coniplete the two men separated. Copies of the masterpiece have been taken to all parts of the civilized world to hang in art galleries, churches, homes and to be printed in: books. Thus the influence of one good woman has been felt throughout the world down through centuries of time. MANY years after the meeting of the painter and the young man there was another great painting planned, the painting of Judas. After studying this character for many years the master again went in search of a model. He searched the saloons and the inns and the slums. One day in a desolate inn the master saw the one for whom he searched. At a lone table sat a man without radiance of face, without interest in life, even without hope. As the artist approached him there appeared something familiar in feature. The stranger spoke the artist's name in a voice whose every trace of music had vanished. "Yes, I remember you. "But you don't know me," the stranger said. "Many years ago I was your model. You painted The Christ. It is a great painting. As I told you then the love of a beautiful and good woman gave mea divine radiance. We had a misunderstanding. I quarreled with her and in anger went away. My anger turned to hatred. Hatred has quenched the fire that then warmed my life. Do you see any radiance now?" The old man sat again as a model for the great painter. *See the diary of Leonardo Da Vinci. This was written in mirror writing and was recently deciphered by Professor Manutti. Some facts in this story were given by Robert Ripley in a radio address over the NBC in 1936. They are used here through the courtesy of Mr. Ripley. WISH your friend a Merry Christmas with a pretty handpainted card from the Mormon Handicraft Shop. Gifts to suit any taste and pocket-book are to be found. The Lotus Eater By Mabel S. Harmer HELEN was very much hurt by the attitude which Nina assumed toward her after their conversation on the porch. Everything about her visit had been so happy up until this point that she could not bear to have it marred by unpleasantness now. In the presence of the rest of the family, Nina remained the same but there was no more running into Helen's room late of an evening for whispered confidences nor would she accompanv Helen and Danny on their expeditions to the ocean front. Worse than this, however, was Helen's concern for her younger sister. She felt that Nina must be taking the affair with Cary Hughes very seriously indeed to allow it to affect their relations like this. She had made careful inquiries about the man and had learned that while there was nothing very definitely bad about him, he was known as a spendthrift and certainly he was not the type for her pretty goldenhaired sister to fall in love with. She felt that she simply could not go back to Wyoming until the affair had been satisfactorily settled. She thought more than once of going to her father and mother about it but was afraid that they might reprimand Nina too severely and cause more harm than good. She wished she could interest Nina more in Wendell Baker who was a splendid lad in every way but she knew that the surest way to throw Nina into Cary Hughes' arms would be to openly attempt to further Wendell's cause. HELEN finally persuaded Nina to go shopping with her and Danny one day on the plea that she could not manage both her parcels and the boy alone. She was sure that Nina had agreed to go only because she could think of no good excuse not to go but was happy anyway to have an opportunity to draw Nina closer to her again, if possible. Danny found the dog, which he had promised to take back to his Daddy for a present, and insisted that his mother buy it at once. It was white and woolly with large floppy ears and a most enticing red flannel tongue. Danny would not allow it out of his arms even long enough for the sales girl to wrap it up and beamed ecstatically upon his newly acquired treasure. When they had finished shopping, Helen suggested that they stop somewhere for lunch and they had just settled themselves cozily and given their order when a deep masculine voice said, "May I join this charming group?" Looking up, she saw the smiling face of Cary Hughes. Nina flung her a glance at once both startled and challenging but Helen said pleasantly, "To be sure, we'll be glad to have you." She meant what she said. Although she had previously been introduced to Cary she had seen him only for a few brief moments and she was glad to have an opportunity to study the man a little more carefully and to decide, if she could, just how much Nina was in love with him. He was exactly the type, she thought ruefully, to catch the fancy of an unsophisticated young girl. Dark haired and handsome, carefully dressed and with the easy, debonair manner of "a man about town." Helen chatted with him during THE LOTUS EATER lunch while Nina contented herself by saying something only occasionally but making up for it by wearing such a thrillingly happy look that Helen became more deeply concerned than ever. When they were through Cary offered to drive them home and Helen accepted. She could readily see that if she could once more gain Nina's confidence she would have a far better chance of influencing her in the right direction than if the present coolness continued to exist. When they arrived home Nina caught Danny up and kissed him and Helen knew that this was her way of expressing her pleasure for the attitude she had taken toward Cary that afternoon. She stood at the stairway looking up, after Nina had run lightly up to change her clothes and thought with an inward sigh, 'Poor little sister—I hope she doesn't get hurt too much." There was a letter from Dan on the tray in the hall which she picked up and was about to read when her mother came in and said, "Mr. Winters, is in there and would like to talk with you." HELEN thrust the letter into her pocket and walked into the living room which her mother had indicated by a nod of the head. She was somewhat surprised that her former High School principal had called to see her but supposed it was a friendly visit such as a number of her former friends and acquaintances had made. "This is so kind of you," she said, going toward him with a smile. 'Not at all, not at all," he beamed as he took her outstretched hand. "In fact this is a visit of both pleasure and business." "Business?" repeated Helen, opening her eyes wide. "Yes. May I ask if you were planning 785 on extending your visit here much longer?" Helen instinctively clutched the letter within her pocket. She had been away from home for two months now and while Dan insisted that she stay until she was "good and ready" to come home, she knew that he was desperately lonely for her and the boy and would welcome them back most heartily at any time. She felt that she dared not go, however, until Nina's affair was settled one way or another. She finally answered, "Why—I really don't know just how much longer I shall be here." "I don't mean to be inquisitive," continued Mr. Winters. "The fact of the matter is that school is starting in another couple of weeks and our music teacher has suddenly married and gone away. They will do it, you know," he smiled. "At least the fortunate ones will," Helen answered. "To be sure. Now, the point that I am driving at is that I would like you to take the work for a short time until I can look around and find another teacher. That is, of course, if you are going to stay that long." "I—you'll have to give me a day or so to think it over," said Helen, quite bewildered. "I really had intended to leave before then but it is possible that I could arrange to stay." "I can wait for a few days, but T shall have to know as soon as possible in order that I can look around for someone else in case you do not feel inclined to take it," and Mr. Winters bid her goodbye and left. Helen ran upstairs with her thoughts in a turmoil. What an opportunity it really was if she felt that she could conscientiously take advantage of it. Several more weeks of the bright sunshine for Danny, a chance to help put Nina into the right path and a way to earn enough 786 money to buy a radio. The latter idea had become almost an obsession with her since she had seen the new models with their loud speakers. No longer need she be cut off from all the beautiful music that her soul had so hungered for. Her little isolated home in the valley would not hold nearly so much loneliness for her if she could enjoy this bond with the outside world.. She drew Dan's letter from her pocket and read it through twice. "The lambs don't know how to act," he had written, "without the little fellow to chase them around and I feel still more lost than the lambs do, but don't come home until you have had your stay out." Helen folded up the letter and thrust it back into the envelope. That was exactly what she would do— have her stay out. She would never be satisfied if she went back regretting the lost opportunity. To teach music in a school had been the dream of her life. She had hoped for just such a position before she went away to Wyoming but it had never materialized. What a difference there would have been in her life if it had! Then she would never have met Dan. There would have been no long winters in Wyoming to look forward to, for perhaps the rest of her life and there would have been no Danny. She caught her breath at the very thoughts of it. No, not for all the music in the world would she have had it different. She felt that there was no reason why she should not take advantage of the present situation, however, and she went promptly downstairs and phoned her decision to Mr. Winters while her resolve was still high. Her father and mother were delighted that she was planning a more extended visit than they had hoped for at first but Nina said very little. Helen rather thought that Nina RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE would have been just as pleased to have seen her safely on the road home, in spite of their recent partial reconciliation. URING the next few weeks she worked feverishly to prepare herself for her work. Even though she expected it to last but a short while, she was anxious to do her very best to give the music department of the school a flying start for the year. She dug out her old books on the theory of teaching and procured some new ones. She went over the work as thoroughly as she could with Mr. Winters until he laughingly declared that if she turned out to be too good they wouldn't bother about finding a permanent teacher at all. She had seen Wayne Kent only at intervals since the day he had shown her the model home. They had met once or twice at parties and occasionally he had waved to her from his car as he passed her on the street. She thought that he had probably forgotten about his invitation to take her to visit his people until he called her on the telephone one day to announce that it was his birthday and he was taking her home to his birthday party. HELEN was delighted and dressed very carefully for the party ina fluffy thin white dress. She was very fond of Wayne's mother and two sisters and was anxious that they shouldn't find her too much changed from the time she used to go there to parties during her school days. She was rather surprised when she arrived at the house to find that she was the only guest outside of the family. "I thought you said that this was a party," she whispered to Wayne. "It is," he answered, nodding his head for emphasis. "Just wait until THE LOTUS EATER you see the cake. Cake and ice cream always make a party, don't they?" "I suppose so," Helen agreed. After all, why quibble about the size of the crowd. As long as Wayne's entire family was present there could scarcely be any impropriety about her dining with him. She reflected that she would probably never have thought anything about the matter if it hadn't been for Nina's outburst on the porch the night after she had first seen Wayne.. In spite of her slight twinge of conscience, Helen enjoyed the dinner as she had not done for "ages.'"' She never sat down to a perfectly appointed table, such as the one before her now that she did not think of her poor little dinner party given shortly after her marriage when her. Brave attempt to have things nice had frozen her guests into silence. They chatted afterward until late in the evening and when Helen suggested that she must be going home Wayne naturally took her out to his car. "Have you forgotten where I live?" she asked as he started off in the opposite direction from her home. "Not exactly. I'm going to show you the ocean by moonlight." "Thank you, but I've seen it before," she answered lightly. "Perhaps. But you'll have to admit that you can't see the ocean too many times by moonlight." Helen felt that it would only make the matter absurd if she argued about it so she decided to have a look at 787 the moonlit ocean and get home as quickly as possible. It was not easy to look "quickly" at the ocean bathed in the silver moonlight. It was a sight that was always breathtaking no matter how many times before _ one had gazed upon its loveliness. They sat in silence for a few minutes until Wayne broke the spell by saying, "I'm awfully glad that you aren't going back." "Oh, but I am going back," said Helen quickly. "I'm only taking the school for a few weeks." Wayne shook his head. "You may think you are, but you won't. Do you remember those fellows who stopped on an island when they were coming home from the Trojan war and lingered to feed on lotus, whatever that might be? Well, they meant to go back home too, but they couldn't break away. You'll find that California gets you just like that." "Nonsense," said Helen with a short laugh. "My husband and my home are in Wyoming and 1 will certainly go back. I left California once and I can do so again." Wayne only shrugged his shoulders and looked most provokingly unconvinced. "You shall see,' said Helen definitely ending the argument. Nevertheless, she was vaguely troubled after Wayne had driven her to her home and wished that he had left the story of the lotus eaters back in the fifth grade where he had learned it. (To be continued) Christmas Tree By Blanche Kendall McKey Iam the Yuletide Tree; I know the heights. I grew where I could see the sun drop low, The stars dawn pale. I saw the burst of day And stretched to greet the flame. I knew no fear Of Winter's wrath — my branches green, unnipped, I snuggled warm beneath my quilt of snow. Tam the Yuletide Tree — I know the heights. And you who make me monarch for a day not a tinsel crown upon my head. Beneath the glitter and the tinkling bell, The fairy, frostlike filigree of light, Can you not see my spirit, mountain reared? I ama part of earth, and thus a part Of God, who gave the seed that I might grow, I have not lost my vision of the heights. Set I love the gaudy balls you deck me with. I love the sparkling laughter of your child. I shed a softened light on springing tears, For well I know how rise to life again The sunsets and the ruddy heaths aglow That passed with other years; soft candle flame That lit the depths of eyes which smile no more! I grieve not that my reign is but a day. I do not fear the hour when I shall lie A bit of wood beside the dooryard bush; But for blind eyes that cannot see my soul I weep. Give me a crown of praise that glorifies; Raise spirit-lit eyes to me, that I may know You hear afar Judea's burst of song, In my faint light you see Judea's Star. Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? CHRISTMAS CANDLES TAKE TIME To Live By Lella Marler Hoggan "My feet may tread the lowlands, But I-I scale the heights, And view the ways of destiny By Heaven's gleaming lights —Grace Ingles Frost. ARE we getting all of the sweetness and joy and development, all of the soul growth and real worthwhile happiness out of life & that we desire? Are we reaching out for higher revelations of truth, for "life more abundant"? Or, are we so occupied with the hurries and worries of every day, the transient changing activities that clutter the path of progress, that we have little time for contemplation of the eternal values of life?, How much of our time do we waste brooding over lost yesterdays, and day-dreaming of the glamorous tomorrows that will never materialize? How many days do we live fully, joyously? Days so complete in their fruition that they bring to the heart silent prayers of gratitude? Many of us find our hands so filled with the occupations of livelihood that we fail to make time for life itself. We become so engrossed in |surrounding ourselves with comforts and conveniences that we lose the art of living. We are not so different SS er n6 Ss from the little girl who called to her playmate, “Nancy, we've been all this time getting ready to play, and now our mothers are calling us before we even get started." If life's values were price tagged we would lament our slender purses, but the rarer gifts, the eternal treasures being free for the taking, we hesitate to accept them “With Pan," by Grace Ingles Frost. 790. We are often very reluctant in surrendering physical comfort for spiritual development. From day to day we permit ourselves to be hurried along with the throng. Our own high purposes are shelved in order that we may fill our time with the changing fads and fancies of the day, the instabilities that are here but an hour and are then forgotten. "Just over the next little hill," we assure ourselves, "there will be a quiet path leading into solitude and meditation, where we shall sit down and mark out the pattern of our dreams." But the pause in the onrush of life never comes, unless we are brave enough to step out of line and take it. It requires time and courage, work and faith to make dreams come true. But those who cherish a dream and who are ready to make their lives a devotion to its fulfillment, shall find strength sufficient unto their needs. "Heaven stoops under our roof" more often that we realize. Our eyes are so dimmed with the shadows of materialism that we fail to recognize Divinity in the burning bush. God's manna is spread all along life's way, but we must gather our portion while the day is young. If we wait until the shadows lengthen it will be too late. The most precious gifts of life will elude us unless we make preparation to receive them and then retain them by a wise and proper use. "For most of us," says Gove Hambidge, "the path to the stars lies through simple and immediate things."
LET us take time for the little priceless joys of every day that will make life richer and sweeter. Why not begin this very morning, no doubt or fear.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
doing some of the lovely things that we have waited all through the years to do? Let us put by our first coin, today, towards the purchase of that beautiful picture that will give us inspiration every time we look at it; that piece of handiwork, that will give play to our creative ability; the inspired book, that will satisfy our heart's longing; the sheet of music, that will be a singing melody to our soul. Let us find time for a moving picture of rare beauty or bubbling mirth, now and then. Let us make a place on our program for the lovely lessons that are prepared for our inspiration and spiritual growth. Is there not an odd hour now and then, that can be spent with some relative or friend who is shut in and lonely? There are numberless joyous adventures, beautiful soul-stirring experiences that may be had for the taking, if we will find time for them. It requires time for companionship with our children, for the games and songs and picture books that sweeten the life of the small child. It takes time for comradeship with our fellows, for communion with our God. Bulwer Lytton said: "There is no unbelief. 'Whoever plants a seed beneath the sod And waits to see it push away the clod Trusts in God." Man has an upward reaching for communion with the divine, a deep desire for fundamental truths, an instinctive yearning for the beautiful. Should we not satisfy these demands of the soul? It takes time to enjoy the beauties of nature, to read the lovely books that enrich life, to build up an inner spiritual strength, a susceptibility to divine guidance, a faith that knows It takes time to
"Take Time To Live," by Gove Hambidge, McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York.
LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY
live. Of course it does. But what is life, after all, if it fails to yield us joy and peace and satisfaction? God meant our lives to be radiant, beautiful, glorious. Did not He declare, "Man is that he might have joy"?
THE gift of all gifts that is most to be desired, is the everlasting Gospel of the Master. "It is the power of God unto salvation." When we walk in the darkness of despondency it is a light to our feet. In the midst of turmoil and confusion it calms our fears. When we are deep in sorrow it comforts and heals our breaking hearts. In the hour of defeat, it gives us wings for new flight. Surely nothing else in life is so precious, so entirely worth cherishing. And yet we become so absorbed with the trivial demands of every day, that we sometimes forget. Even when we are making preparations for that holy day, the anniversary of His birth, we are beset by many cares. Our festive red candles send out Christmas cheer to the guest and the stranger alike. But do we take time to watch the soft light of a lone white taper, the light that breathes
791
a spirit of prayer, of solemn gratitude for His supreme sacrifice for all men? His gospel is the scintillating candle of truth whose rays will light our feet into paths of peace. Are we too busy to take time for the glorious blessings it holds? Are we too hurried to kneel in prayer, to look up at the stars in the silent night? Surely, on this day of days, we should take time for these blessed joys. This excerpt from Grace Noll Crowell's beautiful poem, "Leisure," is a challenge to each of us in our hurried preparations for His natal day:
"I shall have leisure—I shall go out alone From my roof and my door, I shall not miss the silver silence of stars As I have before, And Oh; perhaps if I stand there very still And very long, I shall hear what the clamor of living has kept from me: The angel's song!"
"Leisure," by Grace Noll Crowell, Published in Good Housekeeping Magazine, New York City. Special arrangement has been made with the authors and publishers, for the use of the excerpts in this article.
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
IN the gladness of December festivals, forget not the divine inheritance of man is tenderness.
AS Christmas nears one haunts the gaily decorated shops for suitable gifts for the little folks. A delightful custom is to have at least one book at Christmas for each child of the household. Never was there a lovelier display of juvenile literature than now. Besides the old favorites in revised and more attractive dress, appear scores of charming new books so alluring that one almost longs to be a little child again. "Here Comes the Postman," by Dorothy Park, beginning, "When I was a little girl"; and the thrilling South American story, "The Red Jungle Boy," by Elizabeth Steen, "The Little House," by Christine Crowell, and Dorothy Bryan's "Bobby Wanted a Pony" and so many others to choose from for children's happiness.
CLEOPATRA, the most fascinating figure of ancient civilization, is the subject of Emil Ludwig's latest biography. It is a sensation in the field of literature.
EVE CURIE'S biography of her mother, Marie Curie, discoverer of radium and greatest of all women scientists, is exciting, inspiring and beautifully written. Other interesting books for winter reading and reviews given first place by the reviewers are Mabel Dodge Luhan's "Edge Of The Taos Desert," Laura Riding's "A Trojan Ending," Sally Salminen's "Katrina," "The Long. Way Home" by Sylvia Chatfield Bates, and Louise Redfield Peattie's new novel, "Tomorrow Is Ours." "A Japanese Lady In Europe," by Haruko Ichikawa is also most entertaining; as are "The Faithful Wife," by Sigrid Unset and "Farewell Spain," by Kate O'Brien.
MARY LYON in 1837 founded Mount Holyoke Seminary, the same year that Oberlin College opened its doors for co-education. Four women were admitted and in 1841 were graduated with degrees of bachelor of art.
ANNIE JUMP CANNON of Harvard, known as the "pilot for astronomers," has been awarded the honorary degree of doctor of science from Mount Holyoke College.
JOSEPHINE ROCHE, assistant secretary of the U. S. Treasury, has resigned her position and resumed the presidency of the Rocky Mountain Coal company in Colorado.
HANNAH MADSEN ALDRICH, handcart pioneer to Utah in 1856, recently celebrated her 97th birthday, at which time she helped in all the arrangements.
EDNA DWYER, sweet singer and devoted friend, died this past autumn. She was many years a favorite in Salt Lake musical circles.
MARIA ECKLAND WALQUIST, of Utah, died last October at the advanced age of 100 years.
JEAN BATTEN, New Zealand aviatrix, established a new solo record in her flight from Australia to England last October.
LUCY EMILY WOODRUFF SMITH, wife, mother, and friend, died early in November. Active in women's social and patriotic circles she was beloved for gracious qualities of heart and soul.
Last Minute Christmas Gift Suggestions By Leda T. Jensen
CHRISTMAS is almost here. Have you made or purchased all those gifts you want to give to those you love? Or have your good intentions to make or buy early this year gone awry as in the past, and are you trying to decide what to give and how to find time to make or purchase these gifts along with the other manifold duties that crowd themselves into every day of this busy season of the year? To forestall those Christmas gift jitters that recur every December a few suggestions might help to solve that oft-perplexing question of what to give. We want our gifts to be just as lovely and appropriate as we are capable of choosing. A gift will be greatly treasured if it conveys a feeling of having been carefully chosen for just the individual to whom it is given. When one wishes something especially nice in this machine age of mass production, one considers those things made by hand. If a handmade article is beautifully done, there is a sentimental as well as an intrinsic value over the machine made article. "Let's make our gifts" is an appealing invitation to the woman who has been taught the value of developing her hands to be skillful and useful. "Let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own hands," are the words of the Lord recorded in the Doc. And Cov. 42:40.
EVERY girl should be taught to use a sewing needle, knitting needles, and a crochet hook for numberless are the beautiful things decorative and useful that can be made for herself or for others throughout her life. There is no more interesting place to begin than in the making of Christmas gifts. While one listens to the radio or chats with friends hands need not be idle, and surprising is the number of lovely articles that may result from the use of a moment's time here or there which might otherwise be wasted. Loving thoughts go into those gifts we make, and to know we have given of our time and talents make them doubly welcome to the receiver, especially if she understands the problems involved.
APRONS are always appropriate for the friend who frequently entertains, for mother who needs must slip into the kitchen often on Sundays or holidays, or for sister who is attracted to colorful, gay, new designs. Aprons of organdie, swiss or other sheer, crisp fabrics trimmed with ric-rac or tape in varying color combinations are always dainty and harmonious; gay peasant aprons of unusual style and combinations of plain colors with stripes, plaids, checks or floral designs; or more commodious, but attractive aprons for the kitchen made of good material, which will last, are all timely apron suggestions.
IS your friend contemplating marriage in the near future? Add a pair of hand-embroidered pillow slips, a boudoir pillow, a braided mat or rug for the bathroom or bedroom, a hand pounded Utah copper or silver vase or tray, or a colorful pieced quilt to her growing trousseau.
794
COULD the baby of the family use a knitted or crocheted hood or bonnet, a fleecy soft white or pink hand-made shawl, a new dress with tiny embroidered rose buds and delicate crocheted edgings, or a warm, soft jacket?
THAT little niece, three to five years old, loves to look at herself in the mirror when she wears a new, gay colored print dress. When it is well made by hand, of fine quality materials, it will retain its gay colors to delight her for a long time after the holiday season is over. All feminine hearts respond to the accent that a well chosen flower lends to a costume. Delicate colors and fabrics combine for the evening gown, deeper shades in satin, velvet or chenille for the afternoon frock, or durable crocheted flowers for the coat or suit ensemble.
A LUNCHEON set, a handkerchief or guest towel embroidered or otherwise decorated with sego lilies or seagulls might bring back fond memories to an out-of-the-state friend who visited with you in Utah last summer, especially if you acquainted her with the early history of your state.
A HAND-PAINTED china vase to hold the floral centerpiece, hand-painted bon-bon dishes, cream pitcher and sugar sets, or nut cups, would add that unusual touch to the luncheon table of the aunt who so graciously entertained for you during that merry round of prenuptial parties.
MAYBE the lovely handmade doilies, dresser scarfs, living room table covers, pillows, etc, are
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
wearing out after sister has used them for five or six years since her marriage. Why not replace them with some new ones?
IS there a corner in brother's room that would look brighter and have more meaning if a small water color sketch of Utah Lake, Mount Timpanogos, or an etching of the Seagull Monument were hung there?
FATHER or the boy friend would appreciate a handmade tie and pocket handkerchief that match to add to those articles of personal adornment of which one never has too many.
KNITTING and fancy-work bags are always acceptable to the person who carries her hand work with her wherever she goes, so she may add a few stitches when time and circumstances will permit.
LOVELY handmade quilts and bedspreads do something to a bedroom that those fashioned by machine can never do. Luxurious, downy quilts of shimmering fabrics with embroidered or appliqued seagulls and sego lilies for decoration would be priceless for a mother or a daughter who lives out of the state, but whose heart is in Utah deeply rooted in the pioneer traditions of her native state.
ON the upper floor of the Bureau of Information on the Temple block you may find all the suggestions listed above. These beautiful gifts have been made by the women of Mormondom. Simple yet appropriate gifts exquisitely made by hand and attractively wrapped bring joy to the recipient and express the true spirit of Christmas giving.
Notes to the Field
SPECIAL attention is called to the material in lesson enrichment to be found in the Relief Society Magazine. In the November, 1937, issue, Class Leaders in Theology, Teacher Topic and Literature will find great help in the excellent articles published under these departments. The Social Service material appears in the article "Why Study Sociology," in this issue of the Magazine.
Theology Department
A MOST excellent point of contact to use for the lesson on the Resurrection this month would be to exhibit the picture "The Two Disciples Running to the Tomb," by Burnand. Some of you will remember it from the Scriptural Art Exhibit at our recent conference. This picture may be procured from your libraries or from Rudolf Lesch, 225 Fifth Avenue, New York, for a very nominal charge. Peter and John have depicted on their faces almost the gamut of human emotions, and it is brought forcibly to our attention that here was a new event and a strange one in the history of the human race, for Christ was indeed the "First fruits of the resurrection" and "If one dead body has been raised to life, unnumbered millions may also be revived." A lesson, to be a fine lesson, should have a practical application, and it would be very fitting for the class leaders in this lesson to utilize the opportunity for planting in each heart the necessity for faith and in stimulating the women with hope anew and comfort. This will not be a difficult thing to do as most of our lives have been affected more or less by the death of loved ones. We should sincerely urge the women to
live in the light of the Spirit of God, so that every one of them might have burning within the belief in the resurrection; for the Spirit of the Lord can instruct them that they can know for themselves. All of us are born with powers, but not with knowledge, and many of us are not satisfied to abide in the little garden of the surely known, and so we should live rightly and pray for the spiritual gift of faith, which will widen our perspective and give new meaning to life's experiences.
Additional References: "Mormon Doctrine," by Charles W. Penrose, procurable from missionaries, as it is a tract. Doctrine and Covenants 93:33.
Work and Business Department
Since launching our project for the Work and Business Department, we find many women showing great interest in the making of bread as well as its uses. All left-over pieces or crusts should be dried, then put through the food chopper or crushed with the rolling pin, and the crumbs stored in a container. It is then ready to be used in various ways, such as bread puddings, Brown Betty pudding, dressing for fowl or different kinds of meat, a fine addition to meat or salmon loaf, Mixed with a little flour it can be used to dip croquettes of various kinds, fish, steak, etc., before frying. Slices of stale bread may be cut into small squares, buttered, toasted and served with soup, instead of crackers.
Social Service Department
"Neither wealth, nor pride, nor past achievement can save a nation whose peace time patriotism is not registered in a decent and wholesome
796
respect for law and order. The first duty of popular self-government is individual self-control." This Government has always found, and always will find its defense and its strength in the purity and loftiness of character of its private citizens. For the teaching of self-control, and the building of character, we look to the homes. Read "Let There Be Peace," Relief Society Magazine, March, 1935, page 176. Also from "The Greatest Art," Relief Society Magazine, February, 1937, page 83, beginning "Children learn self-control," etc.
IN presenting the Social Service lesson, "The Paying of Our Public Bills," class leaders may be interested in the following information:
STATE OF UTAH TAX COLLECTIONS, 1936
Property Tax............$15,688,722.00* Individual Income Tax........498,918.95 Corporation Franchise Tax....508,035.06 Sales Tax...............2,966,866.29 Gasoline Tax............2,899,010.77 Cigarette Tax...........284,493.48 Oleomargarine Tax........37,634.15
*The property tax figure is the amount assessed in the taxable year 1936. All other items represent the actual amount collected in the fiscal year ending June 30, 1936. The 1930 population of the State was 507,847.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Beer Tax...............104,999.25 Inheritance Tax.........195,362.93 Insurance Tax...........298,090.94 Public Utilities Fees....59,994.14 Motor Vehicle Fees.....1,257,437.54
TOTAL................$24,799,615.50
ATTENTION LITERARY DEPARTMENT
The following are recommended as supplementary books for this department:
1, RED MOTHER by Frank B. Linderman, John Day Co., N. Y. This is the life history of a great medicine woman.
2 MEMORIES OF MY CHILDHOOD by Selma Lagerlof, Doubleday Doran and Co., N. Y. This book will be interesting to those who would like to know something of other people. It is written by one of the leading contemporary Scandinavian authors.
3. MY GARDEN OF MEMORIES by Kate D. Wiggin, Houghton Mifflin Co. This is a delightful story of the early life of Mrs. Wiggin.
4, AUDUBON by Constance Rourke, Harcourt Co. This book will be found particularly interesting to those who like birds.
5. LITTLE KNOWN WOMEN OF THE BIBLE by Eveleen Harrison, The Round Table Press. This book will appeal to many of the organizations.
SOLVE your shopping worries. Get your Christmas presents at Mormon Handicraft Shop, where a large variety of articles will make choosing easy.
Notes from the Field Julia A. F, Lund—General Secretary
MOTHERS AND BABIES OF PRESCOTT BRANCH, CALIFORNIA MISSION
California Mission
THAT young mothers throughout the Church are coming to realize the great value of Relief Society, and what it offers to them, is evidenced by the report from the California Mission. The above picture is that of the mothers and the babies. There are thirty-one babies included in the picture, twenty-two more, all under four years of age, belong to the group. To quote the report from the mission: "We have a wonderful Society of young mothers. There are still a few in our branch who have not yet joined us, but we think they will soon be numbered in our organization. We are very proud of our young Relief Society mothers and babies. We older sisters appreciate them so much. They are excellent workers and have the enthusiasm of youth, which is so inspirational to all of us." The Relief Society is conducting a splendid educational program, the influence of which will be very extensive.
Brazilian Mission
FROM far away Brazil we have an example of the great force for cooperative effort which is to be found in our Relief Society organization. Quoting from a letter from Sister Mary Howells, President of the Mission Relief Societies, we have the following: "Among the families in Joinville Branch Relief Society, a very fine piece of work was accomplished. The people have very few of the necessary household medicines and articles so valuable in family use. Through the cooperation of one of the large supply houses in Sao Paulo, a great quantity of irregular end materials were made available at a very low price. The material was sent to the Joinville Branch, where the Relief Society diligently made small boxes out of
798
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
FIRST AID KITS PREPARED BY JOINVILLE BRANCH, BRAZILIAN MISSION
pasteboard, and filled little tins with healing salve, and small bottles with antiseptics and greatly needed medicines. In this way First Aid kits were prepared and donated by the Relief Society to those who needed them. The Relief Society Teachers distributed these among the poor families, and by this means gained many friends and investigators. Acts of this kind do much to allay prejudice among the people. The snapshot was taken while the sisters were at work, and shows the kits when they were completed. We are endeavoring to organize more societies in other parts of our mission, and we feel that our work is progressing."
Swedish Mission
THE Relief Societies of Sweden held their first mission-wide conference in Stockholm in June of this year. It was well planned and showed the efficient leadership of a
CONFERENCE PAGEANT, STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Mission Board composed of local members. The reports of representatives from all parts of Sweden showed that good work is being done in the branches, and that where possible, the activities and the lessons as outlined are being followed. There was one public meeting wherein the ideals of the Relief Society were well presented to a large audience. Three Relief Society songs, which had been translated into Swedish by one of our sisters, were sung at the meeting. Perhaps the outstanding event was the pageant, "Back to the Scriptures." This, too, had been translated, and was presented under the direction of a local sister. The picture is of that particular pageant. Visiting members were guests at a dinner, and the following day toured the city, visiting many of the educational centers, and they were particularly interested in that of the cooperatives. The conference was
799
undoubtedly a great inspiration for another year's successful work.
French Mission
SISTER HANNAH URSENBACH writes: "Although it is only the beginning of the season, many of the Sisters have expressed their gratitude for our program, and we are looking forward to a very successful Relief Society year. During the Summer some of our branches have had a vacation, others have reviewed the lessons, while still others have taken up the study of the Bible. We have held Daughters' Day socials, and the picture below is one of such groups which was held in Liege. Most gratifying results have followed the efforts made in this direction. Our branch conferences will be held during the months of October and November, and we are sure these will do much toward arousing interest in our work.
DAUGHTERS' DAY, LIEGE, BELGIUM
800
Ensign Stake
THE following instructive note is furnished by Radie O. Hyde, President of Ensign Stake Relief Society. The social side, as well as the economic and educational angle of our program, is well developed: "At the Ensign Stake Union Meeting a demonstration of our bread-making project outlined by the General Board was conducted by Sister Vilate Blaney, Stake Work Supervisor, and Ward Supervisors. The bread-makers wore crisp starched cottons. The demonstration began at nine o'clock, beginning with washing of hands and proceeded as though none of those present had ever made bread. All equipment and ingredients necessary for making raised rolls and loaves of whole wheat and white bread were provided. Because we learn more by doing things than by watching things being done, the Ward Supervisors made the bread under the direction of the Stake Supervisor. During the time the bread was rising, recipes for variations of raised breads were copied, such as raisin bread, ice box rolls, London Hot Cross Buns, and cakes. Before the two o'clock meeting our rolls and loaves were baked and exhibited. A luncheon was served at 12:30 using rolls we had made. The afternoon lesson dealt with health and nutritional values of various breads. The Supervisors of the Ensign Stake are repeating this demonstration in their Wards on the November work day. Since bread is such an important food, this project will be invaluable."
Chicago Stake
ALTHOUGH Chicago is one of our very new stakes, it is certainly beginning its history under
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
most favorable auspices. The President writes: "We feel very happy and much encouraged in our stake work. Distance here is a problem as in some of our other Stakes, however, at our Union Meeting in October, we had practically a full presidency from each of the eight Wards. The Ward Conferences were scheduled for October and November. The object of this was to acquaint the members of the ward or branch with the work done in Relief Society, and to show every mother the opportunity Relief Society offers. A plan and suggestions for the conference were sent to each Ward from the Stake Board. The following is a very brief summary of the material outlined.
"Work and Business Department: Home-making—Real home-making, not just housekeeping, is a stepping stone toward a more abundant life, a key to a full and happy life; it is the foundation of harmony and happiness in the home. A smoothly run home makes for more harmonious living, and paves the way toward more unity and understanding in the hearts and minds of the individual members of the family. Therefore, we should see a real need for studying home-making and profiting by every suggestion and thought that may be given. The following were then suggested as assignments for five minute talks: A well-planned home—budgeting effort, time and income; Economic Problems — bread-making, sewing, laundering, gardening; Leisure time; Greater solidarity in family life; Consumer's Problems. Suggestions were given for the Social Service, Theology, Literary, Teacher Topic, and Visiting Teacher Departments, as well as for the Relief Society Magazine.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
LOUISE YATES ROBISON........................President AMY BROWN LYMAN........................First Counselor KATE M. BARKER..........................Second Counselor JULIA A, F. LUND.............General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD
Jennie B, Knight Nettie D, Bradford Emma A. Empey Marcia K. Howells Annie Wells Cannon Emeline Y. Nebeker Lalene H. Hart Mary Connelly Kimball Cora L. Bennion Janet M. Thompson Amy Whipple Evans Donna Durrant Sorensen Rosannah C, Irvine Vivian R. McConkie Ida P. Beal Leda T. Jensen Belle S. Spafford Beatrice F. Stevens
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: Editor........................Mary Connelly Kimball Manager......................Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager............Amy Brown Lyman
VOL. XXIV DECEMBER, 1937 No. 12
Editorials
Peace
GLORY to God in the highest and on earth peace, good will toward men." Thus was the birth of the Savior heralded to the world by the angels nearly two thousand years ago.
Peace, a state of quiet, calm, order and security, a state of harmony between persons and nations. Millions of sincere people the world over are striving for the consummation of this ideal. But all too many seek for a peace which leaves them with material advantage, with their own selfish interests protected. They seek for peace disregarding the precepts of the "Prince of Peace." As with individuals so with nations. The greed and selfishness of powerful nations stand a blockade to that ideal state. "The Golden Rule serves as a guiding principle in the associations of men and nations only in a limited way. At a round-table discussion held in London in 1931 the great leader of India sought to introduce such an idea when he said, 'I have dreamed of a co-partnership existing between our two great empires, (India and England) by which they shall be held together, not by the force of arms but by the silken cord of love.' Governments, unfortunately, do not work along these lines. They meet to plan peace with armed forces behind them. Peace based upon the theory that "might makes right" can at best be but an armistice.
ONLY to the extent that men come to Christ's way may peace be attained. For a nation to be at peace its people must be at peace one with another. To have peace one with another each person must be at peace with himself. One enjoys peace with self only through the constant searching for truth and devotion to the teachings of the Master whose birthday we again commemorate. Men of God have attained peace in the midst of a world torn with greed, strife and turmoil. The Rev.
802
Dr. Prentis gave, unsolicited, a short time before President Lorenzo Snow's death, the following, "I saw him in a business office, where great affairs, were transacted, where grave responsibilities are born, and where serious troubles come. * * * I was startled to see the holiest face but one I had ever been privileged to look upon. His face was a power of peace, his presence a benediction of peace." Peace, one of God's greatest bless-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ings, comes from within. It is within the grasp of every Latter-day Saint but it demands as its price eternal vigilance and constant righteous effort. "Rejoice in the Lord alway: and again I say, Rejoice. "And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus." (Philippians, Chap. 4:4-7.)
Best Wishes
THE Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, a sister organization of the Relief Society, assigned the special responsibility of caring for our daughters, merits the confidence, support and praise of every Latter-day Saint mother. Those who have led this association, Sisters Elmina S. Taylor, Martha H. Tingey, Ruth May Fox, together with their associates, have been women possessed of a sincere interest in the youth of our Church, women abundantly blessed with the spirit of the Father and the gifts of leadership. In the appointment of Sister Lucy Grant Cannon the Mutual is again favored. From every point of view Sister Cannon merits this high position. Years of service in both ward and general board capacities, her marked native ability coupled with charm of personality, and a strong testimony of the Gospel ably fit her to lead the 70,700 young women members of this organization. The Relief Society extends to Sister Cannon, her counselors, Sisters Helen Spencer Williams and Verna W. Goddard, and to Sister Clarissa A. Beesley, executive secretary, its best wishes. The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, a power for good in the Church, is deserving of the best in leadership. We congratulate this splendid organization.
Sympathy
OUR sincere sympathy is extended to the family of Sister Lucy Emily Woodruff Smith in the passing of a devoted companion and mother. Sister Smith is the wife of Elder George Albert Smith of the Council of the Twelve. She has had an active and prominent career among the women of the Church and her influence has enriched the lives of many. A member of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association General Board at the time of her death, we pay tribute to her as a faithful and intelligent Church worker as well as a loyal and devoted wife and mother. May peace, comfort and the blessing of our Father in Heaven attend the family in their day of sorrow.
Music Department
FRANZ SCHUBERT By Ida Peterson Beal
BIOGRAPHIES of great people are interesting, fascinating and supply entertaining reading for our leisure time. In the realm of music we have such men as Bach, Handel, Hayden, Mozart, and Beethoven. Their works are of the highest rank. "Their ability was of that 'all-round' completeness which enabled them to be pre-eminent in every form of musical art." Their characters and personal dispositions made it quite possible for them to develop their abilities. With Schubert it is different. In him we have "genius showing itself of surpassing power in certain departments of music, and in other departments more or less deficient." "Great and splendid as Schubert's musical achievement was, there is no doubt it would have been far greater and more splendid had he had the good fortune to have possessed a more sturdy and determined character, a greater capacity for taking pains, greater tact, discretion and resolution in dealing with those difficulties which more or less are the common lot of all men. While, therefore, Schubert is one of the most brilliant stars in the whole firmament of musical achievement, he is nevertheless not a star of the first magnitude."
FRANZ SCHUBERT was born in a suburb of Vienna, January 31, 1797. His father was a schoolmaster. He had a large family, and Franz was the fourth of the five surviving children of a family of fourteen. The father married a second time and there were five other children. The father was poor, as his obligations were many. He was a musician and several of the children, including Franz, were also musical. Biographers say that Franz's musical ability was extraordinary, quite as exceptional as that of Mozart or Mendelssohn. He possessed a very fine voice, and at eleven years of age he was made a chorister in the choir of the Emperor. This gave him the privilege of being admitted to a school called the "Stadtconvict." At this school his education went forward and was almost the only advantage, social or educational, that Schubert ever had. Most of his time he devoted to music and here he did only those things he could do without effort. His progress in music was enough to astonish everyone. "He has learned everything—God has been his teacher" was the opinion of his teachers of the "Stadtconvict." He received most of his instruction from Salieri, the conductor of the imperial chapel. The boy's greatest interest lay in musical composition. Schubert remained at the "Stadtconvict" five years, and it is surprising to know how much he accomplished in this short period. There were songs, choruses, a cantata, a symphony, several overtures, several quartets, and many instrumental pieces to his credit. "His songs poured from him with all the unconsciousness of effort that a nightingale or lark or linnet may be supposed to feel."
WHEN Schubert was twenty years old he bade adieu to his father's home and went to live with his friend, Schober. Schubert was not very prepossessing in appearance. He was short, and stooped a little, and had short curly hair and a puffy face, bushy eyebrows
804
and a stumpy nose. He was pale but not delicate. His daily work was begun in the forenoon and continued without intermission till dinner time. The rest of the day was spent with his friends, going on excursions, or visiting the inn. When he was taken to the homes of the great, he was reserved and shy. To applause he was very indifferent. He lived until he was thirty-one years of age, yet in this short period his works were manifold. Six hundred songs that now exist, besides many that were lost, symphonies, quartets, sonatas, and other forms of instrumental music are but a few of his accomplishments.
IN HIS lyric composition this spontaneity of effort seems to have been exercised without controlling judgment or attempt at choice and selection of any sort. Anything lyrical that came to hand, even if it were lyrical only in form, was quite sufficient to set his marvelous gift of song in flow." Goethe, Schiller and Mayrhofer provided him with the lyrics of many of his songs. Shakespeare and the Bible gave him themes for his beautiful songs. Goethe's The Erl King "deserves special mention, for it is exceedingly characteristic." "In an hour the melody had been conceived and put into musical form. Its inimitable accompaniment had been arranged and completed." "Such was the birth of the song that is perhaps Schubert's masterpiece.' Again one must not fail to mention the Serenade, "the most delicate dream of passion and tenderness that the heart of man ever conceived." "Hark, Hark, the Lark' and "Who Is Sylvia?" two songs whose words are Shakespeare's, are considered perfect types of songs. It is said they were written on the back of a tavern bill of fare only a few mo-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ments after "the composer had seen the words for the first time." No doubt it was the beauty of the words of the 23rd Psalm that were Schubert's inspiration in giving to the world this beautiful sacred song, "The Lord Is My Shepherd, I Shall Not Want." A friend chided Schubert because he failed to take pains with his compositions. He answered, "I can see no use in such drudgery." He was averse to "painstaking labour of any sort."
WE marvel at his ability to produce so many beautiful compositions. His songs are essentially "songs of sentiment—of sadness, of longing, of regret, of clinging fondness." His songs that should have brought him a princely revenue, brought him almost nothing. He seemed to lack the ability to make himself known. His friends were no better off than he. For a time he was music master in the family of Count Johann Esterhazy. Here he might have remained for a lifetime, but he fell in love with the Count's youngest daughter, Caroline, a child of eleven years of age. This situation made his position in this household very uncomfortable, so he resigned. It was his only love and was hopeless and unrequited. It seems that Schubert had no skill in managing his own affairs. He had no business instinct. "He bargained away the rights of his music for mere trifles." His friends were greatly disturbed. They sought positions at court for him, and elsewhere, but were unsuccessful. His own lack of ambition was against him, so he held no other post than with Count Esterhazy that brought him any remuneration. "Poverty, therefore, was Schubert's portion all through life. There MUSIC DEPARTMENT is no doubt, too, but that poverty— absolute poverty—hastened, if it did not entirely bring about, his untimely end. When he died, November 19, 1828, it was found that his total possessions, including his clothes and his books, were of the value of sixtythree florins, or about ten dollars." SCHUBERT had always been a great admirer of Beethoven—he worshiped him at a distance. They met but once and as far as Schubert was concerned, it proved a disappointment. Schubert's one great desire was to be buried by the side of the great Beethoven. In 1828 death came to this gifted man in his thirtyfirst year. These two great musicians 805 lie side by side as Schubert had desired. "Though Schubert never knew the happiness of love, he has sung of it with the purest ideal feeling. Though his life was clouded with sadness, he has given to the world immortal pictures in tones of the tenderest, loveliest, and truest aspirations of the heart. Though he died wretchedly poor in this world's goods, he bequeathed to the world a rich legacy—the outpouring of a beautiful soul's musical wealth. The wastes of sorrow which stretch across his life were made beautiful with exquisite flowers of song, whose perfume will never be lost, and whose beauty will never fade." LoL LY HE PLAYED THE SWEETEST MUSIC Adeline R. Ensign He played the sweetest music So rich with harmony, That eagerly I listened Enrapt with ecstacy. But when I tried to play it I failed right from the start, O~ I knew the notes and played them,— But he played from his heart. I could not play as he played, My life had been too free, For he knew joys and sorrows That were not known by me. Attention "THE funeral practice of our Relief Society Sisters of dismantling the flowers immediately at the conclusion of the service has been called to our attention by the General Authorities as causing confusion and breaking into the sacred spirit of the occasion. We therefore desire that at all funerals where Relief Society women are in charge of flowers, the flowers be not moved until the mourners have left the chapel. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Lesson 6 CHRIST AND THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION ~ Helpful References In the Bible: Isaiah 25:8; 26:19; Ezekiel 37:1- 13; Hosea 13:14; Matthew 16:21; 20:17-19; 22:23-32; 27:52, 53; 28:1-18; Luke 24:30-46; John 5: 21, 25-29; 11:23-26; 20:11-29; 21:1-14; Acts 23:6-8; 24:14, 15; 26:6-8; 22, 23; I Corinthians 15: 3, 12-23, 29, 35-55; Revelation 20:5, 6, 12-14. In the Book of Mormon: 2 Nephi 10:25; Mosiah 15:20-25; 16:6-11; Alma 11:42-45; 40; Helaman 14:15-17, 25; 3 Nephi 11:1-17; 23:7-12. In the Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 29:13, 26; 42:45; 45:54; 63: 17, 18, 51, 52; 76:15-17, 39, 50, 64, 65, 85; 88:14, 16, 27, 28, 97- 99, 101; 128:12; 130:18; 132:7, 19. Smith, The Way To Perfection: Chapters 41, 42, 43, 45. Smith, Gospel Doctrine: pp. 547-601. Talmage, Jesus the Christ: Chapters 37, 38, 39. Talmage, Articles of Faith: Chapter 21. 1. The Prophets Understood the Doctrine of the Resurrection—Centuries before the coming of Christ the Prophets understood the doctrine of the resurrection. They looked forward to His coming and knew that He should be put to death. But they had a perfect assurance that He would have power in Himself to burst the bands of death, and thus bring about the resurrection of those who did not have power in themselves to arise. It is recorded of Enoch as follows: "And the Lord said unto Enoch: Look, and he looked and beheld the Son of Man lifted up on the cross, after the manner of men; and he heard a loud voice; and the heavens were veiled; and all the creations of God mourned; and the earth groaned; and the rocks were rent; and the saints arose, and were crowned at the right hand of the Son of Man, with crowns of glory." (Moses 7:55, 56) Isaiah testifies plainly of the resurrection. "Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead." (Isaiah 26:19) The prophecy of Ezekiel concerning the valley of dry bones (37:1-13) is a plain allusion to the doctrine of the resurrection. There are those who hold that the doctrine of the resurrection arose relatively late among the Hebrew people. The Book of Mormon makes it reasonably certain such doctrine is not true. The Nephite prophets who lived prior to Christ's coming spoke plainly of his resurrection and of the redemption He was to consummate. Thus Lehi, speaking of the Messiah, said, '""Who layeth down his life according to the flesh, and taketh it again by the power of the Spirit, that he may bring to pass the resurrection of the dead, being the first that should rise." (2 Nephi 2:8) The Brass Plates were undoubtedly a valuable source of information to the Nephites respecting LESSON DEPARTMENT the doctrine of the resurrection. In these plates were embodied the teachings of the prophets of Israel prior to 600 B. C., concerning the mission of Christ. The Book of Mormon quotes from the Brass Plates the prophecies of three men not mentioned in our present Old Testament. These prophets were Neum, Zenock, and Zenos. All three predicted Christ's last sufferings, and some of them the great destruction to take place at His crucifixion. (1 Nephi 19:10-16; 3 Nephi 10:14-16) While it is true they are not quoted specifically concerning the resurrection, there can be little doubt that they did actually predict it. (Read carefully Jacob 6:1, 8, 9; 4:4-6) 2. The Savior Predicted His Resurrection.—During His ministry the Savior made numerous allusions to His forthcoming resurrection. Matthew records that "From that time forth began Jesus to shew unto his disciples, how that he must go unto Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised again the third day." (16:21) Jesus said to Martha after the death of Lazarus, "I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live." (John 11:25) Matthew still further states, "And while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said unto them, The Son of man shall be betrayed into the hands of men: and 'they shall kill him, and the third day he shall be raised again. And they were exceeding sorry." (17:22, 23) These statements and many others show how well the Christ knew what his mission was to be. Only by conquering death and thus making it possible for all men to again receive their bodies, and that in an immortal state, could He make it possible for mankind to progress eternally and to have joy in that progression. 807 3. Christ's Allusions to His Resurrection Not at First Understood. —lIt is interesting to note that the disciples of Christ did not fully understand His references to His early death and resurrection. While He was with them in the ministry, they seemed incapable of grasping the full significance of His statements. His leadership and wisdom, His unusual spirituality and personality, coupled with His relative youth, doubtless combined to distract the attention of the disciples away from the possibility of His early death and resurrection. Those of us in the Church can understand how this could be. Weare perfectly sure that the prophet Joseph Smith realized for some time prior to his death that he would have to be sacrificed in order to seal his testimony. The apostles and lay members of the Church evidently did not fully realize this. Hence the death of the Prophet was a great shock to the Church at large. In the Gospel of Mark it is recorded, "And as they came down from the mountain, he charged them that they should tell no man what things they had seen, till the Son of man were risen from the dead. And they kept that saying with themselves, questioning one with another what the rising from the dead should mean." (9:9, 10) In verses 31 and 32 of the sane chapter we read, "For he taught his disciples, and said unto them, The Son of man is delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him; and after that he is killed, he shall rise the third day. But they understood not that saying, and were afraid to ask him." Other testimony to the same effect is shown in the case of the doubting Thomas (John 20:27-29; see also Luke 18:31-34; John 2:19-22; Matthew 28:16-18). 4. What Happened After Christ's Resurrection?—The resurrection of the Savior must have been a glorious 808 event to the spirits of righteous men who had laid down their bodies in death prior to the time of His birth. They had waited long for the restoration of their bodies. What a joyful union it must have meant to them! Many were permitted to visit people on the earth. "And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose, and came out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many." (Matthew 27: 52, 53). The Christ while visiting the Nephites after His resurrection said, "How be it that ye have not written this thing, that many saints did arise and appear unto many and did minister unto them? And it came to pass that Nephi remembered that this thing had not been written. And it cdme to pass that Jesus commanded that it should be written; therefore it was written according as he commanded." (3 Nephi 23:11-13) Shortly after the Savior's resurrection He appeared numerous times to His Apostles and doubtless personally directed their course in the building up of the Church. The testimony of so many witnesses is indeed impressive. Added to the New Testament testimony is that of the Book of Mormon. The most glorious descriptions in all literature of the resurrected Christ are to be found in 3 Nephi. Not only did Christ appear to the Nephites, but so far as we can tell He also appeared to the lost tribes of Israel. "And verily, verily, I say unto you that I have other sheep, which are not of this land, neither of the land of Jerusalem, neither in any parts of that land round about whither I have been to minister.... But I have received a commandment of the Father that I shall go unto them, and that they shall hear my voice, and shall be numbered among my sheep." (3 Nephi 16:1, 3) Some RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE day we can expect to read their record of His appearance to them. (2 Nephi 29:13) 5. The Resurrection Is the Great Christian Hope—The hope of a glorious resurrection is perhaps uppermost in the minds of most believers in Christ. The living of a full rich life here and now can hardly help but implant in man the desire to carry on at a higher level hereafter. In the words of Paul, "If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable." (1 Corinthians 15:19) Questions 1. What is meant by the first resurrection? Explain Alma 40:16; see also Mosiah 15:20. 2. What is meant by the second resurrection? 3. Can you think of the names of any individuals who were resurrected some time after Christ's resurrection? 4. How many witnesses can you cite to the actuality of the resurrection? Problems Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit. 1. State how a knowledge of the actuality of the resurrection can contribute to right living. 2. Read 1 Corinthians 15:53, 55 and compare Mosiah 16:7, 8; Alma 22:14. Account for the similarities in language of the two records. Hint: Read Isaiah 25:8 and Hosea 13:14. 3. Point out the contributions of the Doctrine and Covenants to our knowledge of the resurrection. 4. Show what sources of knowledge we have of the intermediate state of the soul, between death and the resurrection. LESSON DEPARTMENT 809 Teacher's Topic Lesson 6 Humitity or Jesus "Whosoever shall not receive the Kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein."—Luke 18:17 "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls."'—Matthew 11:28-29. HEN Jesus said he was meek and lowly of heart he did not mean that he had a low estimate of his powers for on other occasions he said, "I am the light of the world," "I am the way, the truth and the life," "No man knoweth the Father but the Son." It is generally accepted that by humility Jesus meant teachableness, docility, willingness to learn. Also willingness to serve, freedom from arrogance, vanity and ambition. Jesus did not stand on the dignity of his position but came down and mingled withall classes that he might understand and serve them. He exhibited no condescension, he never patronized. On one occasion Jesus took a little one and placed him in the midst and said, "whoever shall humble himself as a little child the same shall be great in the kingdom of heaven." In what way is a little child humble? First of all he is teachable. He is all eagerness and willingness to learn. His mind is always open for truth. In this respect he is humble. Also a little child is free from vanity. He will play in contentment with the most lowly companion. He knows nothing of social ambition. He makes no arbitrary distinctions in people but has the power to a great degree to make the true estimate of character and to base his approval or disapproval on real worth. His mother, no matter how lowly her position, is as great to him as a queen of a nation, so simple and beautiful is the heart of a child. Jesus could do nothing with the Pharisees because they possessed no humility. They were not teachable, they knew everything, they were ambitious and self-seeking, they were vain and boastful of their goodness and their superiority to others. On another occasion Jesus said, "Whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant. For even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many." There are so many instances in the New Testament of the way Jesus humbly served those with whom he was associated, showing what true humility is. He was always giving up his rights, refusing to use his power. He had many opportunities to wreak vengeance on his enemies but he did not. His humility was a form of strength. Paul says that Jesus "made himself of no reputation and became obedient unto death even the death on the cross. And therefore hath God highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that he is Lord indeed." Discussion Give incidents from the New Testament showing the humility of Jesus. What are the character traits of a little child which show the humility of which Jesus spoke? What are the rewards of the "meek and lowly in heart?" 810 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Literature Lesson 6 THE ROMANCE OF AN OLD PLAYHOUSE IT may be somewhat of a surprise for many of our readers to find this book listed among biographies. However, the writer has felt that The Old Playhouse, called by Henry Miller "The Cathedral in the Desert," has a personality, is a personality. Around it clung—around its memory still cling—some of the fondest recollections of cultural moments in the upward climb towards culture of an earnest and seeking people. The Old Playhouse was a temple builded to the arts in a day when life was somewhat rough and uncouth. Hundreds of people who had left comfortable homes in communities of culture, found within its walls food for their hungering souls. George D. Pyper, author of this book and the last manager of the Old Playhouse, was born the very year in which excavation for the building began. Those who believe in the guidance of the stars might easily hold the fact to be momentous that a theatre sprang up on his exact birthplace, the stage of what is now the Victory Theatre, Salt Lake City, being located where his cradle once stood. Among his earliest recollections were those of the old Salt Lake Theatre. Always he dreamed of some day being connected with the majestic building and what it stood for. Early in his career Superintendent George D. Pyper connected himself with musical organizations. Possessing a sweet, lyric tenor voice, he became first tenor of a quartette which was in great demand. He also played leading roles in various operas presented in the Old Playhouse. But the joy of his life came when he was asked to become the manager of the theatre which he had adored all through his young manhood. For approximately thirty years George D. Pyper was manager of the Playhouse and brought to Salt Lake City the finest road attractions to be found in the United States. Some of the greatest actors and actresses that ever graced the American stage played behind the footlights of the beloved theatre. On October 20, 1928, the farewell entertainment was held in the old building whose doom had been sealed and whose beloved stage and walls and roof and proscenium would soon be no more. Fortunately for all of us, George D. Pyper, who loved, the theatre with an abiding love, has given us "The Romance of an Old Playhouse." This book we are to study in our next four lessons, including this one. "One day more than thirty years ago," said George D. Pyper in his foreword, "Heber J. Grant, then owning a controlling interest in the Salt Lake Theatre, now President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ("Mormon" Church) said to me, 'George, which would you rather be-—manager of the Heber J. Grant Insurance Company, or manager of the Salt Lake Theatre?' ""T would rather be manager of the Salt Lake Theatre than anything else on earth!' I answered. "A few days later he said: "Go down and put your name on the boards.' "And so," continues Mr. Pyper. "For thirty years I have been managing the destinies of the very playhouse of old memories, whose smok- LESSON DEPARTMENT ing lamps without and trumpeted orchestra and vampires within filled me with such mingled fear and fascination." From such a man who loved his work with a genuine and deep emotion came this book of a personality as real as that of a human being. This is no mere story of a house, a building; it is a story of heartthrobs and a striving for artistic expression. George D. Pyper argues that it is not strange that a people who had such dramatic experiences as those through which the Mormons passed should yearn for dramatic expression. He italicized these words: "Indeed, it is not strange that in this little town of Kirtland, Ohio, should have lived the fathers of some of the men and women who were to tread the stage of a wonderful playhouse to be built in a desert land thousands of miles away where then only Indians and wild animals roamed." In his first chapter, the author lists the names of many prominent families whose sons and daughters were intimately connected with the history of the Old Theatre. Even from the very first, the Prophet Joseph fostered dramatic productions. Here is another passage which Mr. Pyper caused to be placed in italics: "He (Joseph Smith) fostered the drama by organizing a dramatic company and was foremost in encouraging the production of classical plays.". "Among the first and foremost of the Nauvoo actors," says the author, "and one who whetted the appetite of the Nauvoo people for good plays, was Thomas A. Lyne, a Philadelphia convert to the 'Mormon' religion." This man, Lyne, had played with noted actors and upon his conversion to the Gospel, aided greatly 811 in fostering an appreciation for dramatic presentations. It is interesting to note that the Church drew to it the men and women it needed for its cultural expression. It drew its architects, its musicians, its painters, its poets, and even its actors. Here in Nauvoo, George D. Pyper argues, were planted the seeds which were to grow and flourish in the Old Playhouse. He italicizes this passage:; '"Lyne's productions (in Nauvoo) took such a hold on the community that Brigham Young, himself, played the part of the High Priest in 'Pizarro' with great success, assuming the role with real dignity." In mentioning the Drama of the Plains in his third chapter, the author calls attention to the fact that when the Saints left for the Rockies in April, 1846, "The practical mind of Brigham Young brought into the historic pilgrimage a company of men destined to take an active part in an Old Playhouse as yet undreamed of. This was Captain William Pitt's Brass Band that had cheered the people in Nauvoo." Where did this band come from? The author quoted Col. Thomas L. Kane: "The orchestra in service on the occasion of the departure from Winter Quarters astonished one by its numbers and fine drill. The story was told that an eloquent 'Mormon' missionary had converted its members in a body at an English town, a stronghold of the sect, and that they took up their trumpets, drums, and hautboys together, and followed him to America." Mr. Pyper points to the fact that all of these streams of emigrants flowing into Great Salt Lake Valley furnished the background for the building of the Old Playhouse. The first plays produced in what is now Utah were presented in what 812 was known as the Old Bowery. This took place in the year 1850, only three years after the Saints reached the valley, the first play being either "Robert Macaire" or "The Triumph of Innocence." The author is inclined to hold with those who believe _ "The Triumph of Innocence" was first. The point, though interesting, is not important. The important fact is that a play was presented in the Bowery in 1850. The first dramatic company was organized in Salt Lake City at the home of William Clayton in 1850 with such members as Hirum B. Clawson, James Ferguson, Philip Margetts, John Kay, Horace K. Whitney, Robert Campbell, Robert T. Barton, George D. Grant, Edmund Ellsworth, Henry Margetts, Edward Martin, William Glover, and William Clayton. "The ladies were: Miss Orum, Miss Judd, and Miss Mary Badlam." The Old Bowery was not very well suited to play production, therefore, in 1852 Social Hall was constructed as an amusement center. This building, which was located on the east side of State Street between South Temple and First South, served for a number of years as a theatre as well as an amusement center for other activities. Almost simultaneously, the Deseret Dramatic Association was organized superseding the original dramatic organization. The Social Hall was dedicated January 1, 1853. 'What this new auditorium lacked in capacity, was made up in warmth and spirit, for it was the loved center of Salt Lake's socials, meetings, plays, dances, banquets, for many years." For more than half a century this place was used by various groups and organizations and was an immediate forerunner of the Salt Lake Theatre. The first play produced in the historic building was on January 17, 1853, the play, "The Irish Lion," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE being the first offering. During the season of 1855-56, the following plays were produced: "Ingomar," "She Stoops to Conquer," "Rent Day," "Othello," "Luke the Laborer," "New Way to Pay Old Debts," "Richard III," "The Widow's Victim," "His Last Legs," "Loa of a Lover," "Sketches in India," "Perfection."' You will note that the list includes a number of the great plays of the world. In 1858 Johnston's Army marched into Utah. They passed through Salt Lake City and built a camp which they named Camp Floyd. In November of 1858 the Camp Floyd theatre, built by and for the soldiers, opened its doors. During the occupation of Utah by the soldiers the Camp Floyd theatre was the leading playhouse in the territory, the Saints being too worried and too much harassed by the presence of the army to give much attention to stage productions. Upon the withdrawal of the soldiers in 1860-61 the dramatic spirit awoke once more and a new theatre appeared in Salt Lake City. It was given the name of the Bowring Theatre, named for one of its chief founders, Henry Bowring. This was the first building in Utah which actually bore the name Theatre. It was after attending a performance in this theatre that the idea of building a playhouse began to take form. It was about that time that President Young used the famous expression: "The people must have amusement as well as religion." Hiram B. Clawson was instructed to negotiate for a site for a large playhouse. "The Cathedral in the Desert" was assured. Suggestions for Study 1. If it is available in your ward, you will find a sketch of the life of George D. Pyper in Vol. 37 of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Improvement Era. The article, which appeared in the February. 1934, Era, was written by Claire W. Noall. 2. Show that the Prophet Joseph Smith liked the drama. 3. Why was the conversion of Thomas Lyne important in this story of the Old Playhouse? 4. Discuss the statement made by Brigham Young: "The people must have amusement as well as religion." Was he right? Is this statement still true? 5. What agencies in your ward manage the amusements? Are they well managed? 6. Trace the movement which led 813 to the building of the Old Playhouse, from the days of Joseph Smith to 1861, the date of the starting of work on the theatre. 7. Describe George D. Pyper as you know him. 8. How welt has George D. Pyper given the antecedents of the Old Playhouse? 9. What is the meaning of the following, quoted from Chapter 8: "Judged from the present period, one would almost be led to believe that Johnston's Army was sent to Utah to assist the Saints in their recreational activity." How did the army assist? Social Service Lesson 6 Tue PayInG or Our Pusuic Bits Text: Civic Sociology; by Edward A. Ross, Chapter XXVII. FEW problems arouse public interest as quickly as that of paying for public expenses. The apathy toward public questions which is shown by large groups of people suddenly changes to interest when demands are made upon their pocketbooks. Their interest, however is not always intelligently formulated. Often it merely takes the shape of a defensive attitude toward paying for public services. Since taxes play such an important part in the daily experiences of all citizens, it behooves every one to give thoughtful consideration to the matter. This lesson will aim to accomplish two things: First, to help each individual to understand the chief services that are received in return for the expenditure of public money. Second, to develop an intelligent attitude toward the payment of taxes. The right of passing upon the merits of a given tax before it is levied is one of the sacred privileges of citizenship for which people have contested and even fought since the beginning of civilization. And rightly so, for no principle of representative government touches the sacred rights of liberty closer than that of taxation. The public credit is a very important source of strength and security to the nation; it should be cherished and guarded by all thoughtful citizens. The amounts of money involved are so large that the average person is bewildered at attempts to analyze the items; yet each citizen should show an_ intelligent interest in public bills. Perhaps the outstanding characteristic of our public bills is the tremendous increase in the total amount during the last decade. This vast increase in expenditure is due to the great increase of work being done 814 by each branch of government. To appreciate the services of the various branches it is first necessary to have in mind the various taxing divisions of government. While each country has its own system there is marked similarity between the methods of taxation in the principal nations. In the United States each individual. Is subject to four or more separate taxing jurisdictions, each one of which usually seeks to solve its problems independently of the others. These departments are: the Federal, the State, the County, and the Municipal governments; and often special districts also exist. The Federal government must levy and collect taxes for its work and activities. In doing so it largely ignores the work of other units in the system. As the services rendered increase, the money to be expended must correspondingly be augmented. In addition the State government strives to uphold its end of the manifold services required of it by increasing its share of revenue. The county government must be supported. And finally the special districts such as the school must garner their share of public moneys as integral parts of the taxing system. Each jurisdiction has a difficult problem in its attempt to perform all of the services required of its limited revenues. Although the individual is subject to the aggregate demands made upon him by all of these taxing authorities, the authorities themselves are unable to meet even what seems to be the minimum essentials in their departments. Consequently it is not enough for good citizenship that a person content himself by paying his just share of the public bill, He has another obligation to meet in regard to the public treasuries. Having paid his taxes, he owes it to himself and his community to take enough interest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in the way public money is used to see that it is spent honestly, efficiently, and for those causes which are most beneficial to the public welfare. For this purpose the budgets prepared by the different taxing units should be studied carefully and criticised before the expenditures are finally authorized. Any interested person may have a voice in such authorization. Budgets for public receipts and expenditures are always submitted to public hearings before final adopion. At these hearings, citizens or their representatives have the privilege of expressing disapproval of any items in the budget. An enumeraion of a few of the services rendered will help to develOp appreciation for the great tasks of government. Armies and navies have always been one of the principal items of Federal disbursement. The expenses of carrying on wars, of paying pensions resulting from war, and of maintaining the army and navy take at least three-fourths of the national income. There is no present hope'of reducing this amount until the world takes a different attitude toward armaments. The various administrative departments of the national government each takes a large share of the remaining income. No one seems to be willing to have these services reduced. All people wish to have the highways improved, to have better waterways, more convenient postal service, greater safety through the regulation of commerce, more experimentation in the development of crops which are suitable to particular localities, the preservation of the forests, more productive strains of animals and poultry for farm purposes, and a greater utilization of natural resources for the benefit of all people. Many other such projects could be enumerated, and the legitimacy of LESSON DEPARTMENT each seems to be justified as it in its own turn is considered and weighed. It may represent a large expenditure, but each need seems always to be essential to the continued well being and prosperity of the people. A new field which is just beginning to be developed for the good of the public is that of Social Insurance and Social Security. These acts empower the government to levy a tax for insurance against unemployment and old age benefits. Here again is an added service which increases the public bill, but no one seems to favor its elimination, or that of any single item to reduce the cost of its upkeep. In this case an already established taxing jurisdiction has been enabled to extend its power of taxation in which wages of both employers and employees are assessed for social benefits. The services which the State, the County, and the municipalities render are likewise increasing. In fact, most of the institutions which immediately touch the lives of the people are controlled by the State, County, and local city governments. Most important among these should be mentioned the schools and the protective institutions which guard the lives and property of the people directly. Local governments spend more for education than for any other purpose. Yet this institution cannot perform all of the tasks desirable for the well being of the people because of a shortage of funds. Protection to person and property, improving of the highways, guarding public health, general government and charities also constitute heavy expenses. Hospitals, correctional institutions, recreation, and many miscellaneous items take large amounts of money for their support. In periods of unemployment, such as that recently experienced, chari- 815 ties call for a larger proportion of public money than in periods of prosperity. Of course self-respecting citizens should welcome release from charitable assistance as soon as the opportunity of regular work presents itself, but this unfortunately is not always the case, and taxation in their behalf continues. Since local money is spent near at home where people can see the benefits that are derived from the disbursements there is less need for education to realize the value of such expenditures. It is easy for people to see how an extension of such services would be appreciated by all. For example, in an epidemic people are willing to increase the cost for public health; when the snow is deep they like greater road service, and when fire endangers property they advocate greater fire protection. Schools are constantly in need of greater appropriations in order that youth might be better prepared to meet the demands of the economic and social world; and the reading public appreciates an extension of library facilities. And yet, even for these purposes, taxes are not always willingly paid. One must understand, however, that if he is to enjoy such privileges and benefits he must assume his share of the financial obligation. Public enterprise is supported by the public purse. But the purse is made up by every earning ciizen. Each should learn to count the cost and weigh the value of every undertaking whose source of revenue is in the general coffers. And moreover, he should be willing to investigate the disbursements if he expects later to voice his opinion concerning them. The problem of justice in taxation is a subject too broad for discussion here. However, it is well to keep in mind a maxim of taxation spoken long ago by Adam Smith, an early 816 economist. He has given many catons of taxation, one of which is: "The subjects of every state ought to contribute toward the support of the government as nearly as possible in proportion to their respective abilities." While many factors enter into the capacity of any individual to pay for public service, the cognizance of this principle will help him to maintain an intelligent and just attitude toward tax payments. The obligation to contribute an amount which is commensurate to one's income should be considered uo more than fair. If taxation seems to supersede 'justice, investigation and protest should be carried out along proper channels. In general the people of the United States have similar burdens to the citizens of the principal nations of the world. A comparison with Great Britain and France will serve as an example. However, it should be remembered that no comparison is entirely valid because of different living standards, average wages earned, taxable wealth, and many other factors. However, in Great Britain 80 per cent of the taxes are levied by the national government, in France 70 per cent, and in the United States 33 per cent. The remaining part is levied by the local governments. The average per capita tax for these countries is as follows: United States $78.14, France $75.80, and Great Britain $93.45. On an estimated population of 129 million for 1937 it is anticipated that the per capita tax burden for the United States will be over $95.00. These figures indicate that there is not a great deal of difference between the obligations of the average citizen of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE these nations in paying the public bill. But the United States apparently will be subject to a high increase for the curretit year. There is greater difference between various states in this country than between the nations compared, as shown by the following table of representative states: State Per Capita Per Capita Total State Tax Federal Tax Tax New York se $28.74 $130.74 Illinois 28.74 96.74 Washington 46.00 28.74 75.43 Arkansas 24.00 28.74 52.94 It is evident that no matter where a person lives he is constantly taking part in the making and paying of public bills. Through his own interest in the problem he should understand the chief services received in return for the public money expended. Furthermore, through study and an active interest in the work of the taxing authorities he should maintain an intelligent attitude toward tax payment. Only by so doing is the public at large assured of justice in taxation. Activities 1. Secure a local tax notice and note the purpose of the various assessments and the relative amount of each. Compare the amounts for state, county, and city purposes. 2. Point out as many ways as possible in which national taxes are levied and collected. Tax estimates in this article are quoted from "Taxes, English, French, American," by Edward C. MacDowell; Current History, May, 1936; United States federal taxes are for 1935; state and local taxes for 1933, and for Great Britain and France for 1934. LESSON DEPARTMENT 817 Literature for Missions TYPICAL WOMEN IN THE CHURCH Lesson 6 REVIEW AND Discussion or Lessons 1-5 N lessons 1 to 5 we have briefly sketched the lite and work of five noble women. They were born in five different countries—one each in Germany, Switzerland, Piedmont, Wales and the United States. They all went to Utah and spent their lives in the Church, each raising a very creditable family. In this respect they were very much alike. These women were chosen for these lessons because they were typical of the mothers in the Church, and to show that they have many ennobling qualities in common, notwithstanding their different nationalities. Nobility, like virtue, love, honesty, etc. Is the same wherever it is found. Acceptance of the Gospel and living its principles make people much alike—a fact that found a demonstration in the people who pioneered Utah and adjacent areas in neighboring States. Among these people there were no class distinctions, no national distinctions. They were all brothers and sisters, even though they came from many different countries. This fact they demonstrated in the way they treated each other. We believe the home is the unit upon which the Church is built as well as the Nation. And so the Church stands for the home and for every virtue that contributes to its sanctity and strength. Most important among the factors that make a home is, of course, the mother. There could hardly be a real home without a good mother. Hence, in the eyes of the Church, motherhood and the rearing of children is the noblest work of women. So marriage is encouraged, but relations of the sexes outside of marriage is condemned. Every child is enitled to be born in legal wedlock. Motherhood of the type illustrated by the five women studied is the kind for which the Church stands. It is this kind that furnishes any woman with her brightest crown and insures her God's everlasting love. In some of the lessons mention was made of the coming to Utah of Johnson's Army, of the move "to the South," ete. A further word relative to this matter might be in order. When Brigham Young led his people to the Salt Lake Valley, they were directed by Church authority. However, they realized that a civil government must be set up, which they wanted done under the authority of the United States as soon as possible. At the time the Valley was Mexican soil. But war was on between the United States and Mexico, and 500 Mormon men, known as the Mormon Battalion, marched as a unit of the United States Army across the southern part of the country to California and took possession. So when the Pioneers arrived in the Salt Lake Valley, they hoisted the American flag. When peace was made between the United States and Mexico in 1848, all of the western part of the country was ceded to the United States. In March, 1849, a political convention was held in Salt Lake City, and the United States Congress was petitioned to organize the Territory of Deseret. A Constitution was adopted, and a provisional government set up. But it was not until September, 1850, that Congress made a law organizing the Territory glg of Utah. President Millard Fillmore appointed Brigham Young to be the first Governor. Other officers were also appointed, most of them non- "Mormons" sent from the East. Everything moved along fairly smooth for awhile. But at length some of the Federal officers became disgruntled and returning East told bitter falsehoods about the way the "Mormons" treated them and accused the people of being in rebellion against the authority of the United States. In 1857, President James Buchanan was led to believe that conditions were so bad that a new Governor must be sent to Utah, accompanied by an army to put down the rebellion. Without making any investigation to find out the truth of the charges, President Buchanan appointed Alfred Cumming to succeed Brigham Young as Governor and ordered General Johnston to take an army of 2500 men to go with Governor Cumnung. Thus began "the Utah War." President Young knew there would be no trouble when the facts were known. In those days there was no telegraph lines from Utah to the East and travel and the mails were slow. It was July 24, 1857, when the news that the army was coming first reached Governor Brigham Young. He was up in the mountains with two to three thousand of the people celebrating the tenth anniversary of the coming of the Pioneers. The news produced consternation. Why the army was coming no one knew. But the Saints knew what had happened to them in Missouri and IIlinois when troops were sent against them. It was easy for them to imagine why troops were coming again. They knew that base falsehoods were circulating about them in the East. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE President Young was still Utah's Governor. No official notice that he was supplanted reached him. Alfred Cumming would bring that notice when the army made it possible for him to come in safety. In any case Governor Young would continue to serve until his successor qualified. Governor Young immediately sent messengers to Washington asking for an investigation and the delay of the coming of the army until after the investigation was made. Space will not permit a further recital of this story. But suffice it to say Governor Young ordered the territorial militia to block the canyons and keep out the army through the winter of 1857-58. This the militia did. Governor Cumming, a fair-minded man, was invited to come with a personal escort only. He came, was courteously received, learned the truth, and reported to the President. Then the army entered peacefully, marched through Salt Lake City and went into camp forty miles southwest of the city. But the move "to the South" was made to get the people away so the homes could be burned, if the army began to fight. The "Utah War" was ended without any fighting. But "Buchanan's blunder," as the affair is sometimes called, cost the United States Government several millions of dollars. Incidentally it may be said Commander Johnston returned East and became a prominent General in the Confederate Army during the Civil War. The enemies of the Church who brought on the "Utah War" wanted to destroy the Church. In Lesson 4, we learned that Sister Melissa said the coming of the army proved to be '"'a blessing in disguise." The Lord overrules.: LESSON DEPARTMENT Questions for Discussion 1. What qualities of character are essential to nobility? 2. Show that Sisters Huefner, McKay, Schwendiman, Davis and Barker were noble women. 3. State what you like best in each woman. 4. Point out that each woman had an undaunted faith in the Lord. 5. Name what you think was the greatest trial of faith experienced by each woman. 6. How do you reconcile tribulations with the love of God? 819 7. It is sometimes said, "the Lord must have a tried people.” Why do you believe this to be true? 8. How were the Utah Pioneers tried? 9. Tell briefly about the "Utah War." (a) Its cause. (b) Its purpose. (c) How it ended.: 10. Tell why the Church (a) Advocates marriage and a home. (b) Believes the Church as well as the Nation must be built upon the home. Child Guidance Lesson 6 PERSONALITY ADJUSTMENTS HE happiness of the child, which is the greatest concern of every conscientious mother, depends upon how he values himself. He is happy if he feels he can do his tasks well and that he is really good for something, and unhappy if he is always the loser in the games and if he fails persistently in whatever he attempts to do. The value he puts upon himself changes with his various experiences. As the child grows up, he has shifting roles to play in the drama of life. He is successful at one task when competing with one individual and painfully unsuccessful when doing something else with stiffer competition. Striving for selfrespect is his greatest concern, but so is it of his competitors. Someone must be loser in every competition. The loser's self-hood depreciates with each failure, as the winner's value of himself increases with each triumph. Shifting of self-feeling takes place with almost every new undertaking of the child, His judgments as to his value gradually crystallize into an attitude that may stubbornly resist change. As the child becomes more convinced of his inferiority, he develops, in some cases, an emotional group of ideas about himself which is commonly called an inferiority complex. We shall devote the lesson following this one to a more detailed discussion of this topic. Our purpose here is to describe some common ways the child adjusts to his feelings about himself—what he does about it when he feels inferior or unsuccessful. First of all, when a child has a feeling of inadequacy or inferiority, he may retreat from the struggle as a temporarily satisfying substitute for success. Day-dreams about himself as a suffering hero or martyr, or as a conquering hero, often take the place of real success and are the most common retreat or escape from reality found among children. There are delicate children who are unable to compete on a physical basis with 820 normal children, but who take great delight in day-dreaming about acts of great strength, or who spend much time reading tales of daring and adventure. To withdraw from tasks that bring none of the pleasures of success is perfectly normal and sensible, provided the child withdraws in order to enter into some other acceptable activity where success is possible. Truancy from school is common among dull children because the tasks set for normal children bring no reward to the dull child. If the dull child is not shown something acceptable that he can do successfully, he is likely to substitute daredevil or sneaky delinquent acts for the satisfactions of which he is robbed because the school work is not suitable for his mental level. Some very modest, shy, and withdrawn children suffer severely from their inability to compete with their group. Withdrawal because of failure in one kind of activity may lead the child to retreat from all activity and to gain his satisfactions entirely from an unreal world which can be more easily constructed to his own liking than can the real world. The child who refuses to play with others or to enter into the activities normal for his age should be regarded as a mental hygiene problem and should be given careful study. A second type of substitute for success, or means of patching up injuries to one's self-regard, is to shift the blame to another person or to make excuses to justify the failure. This is called rationalization, which means the manufacturing of justifications for doing what we want to do or what we have done. This tendency may become so serious that we not only deceive others, but ourselves as well, as to the real reasons for our acts. The fox that could not reach the grapes and excused his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE inability with, "Well, they are sour anyway,' was rationalizing. A child is trying to project or transfer his failure on to others when he tattles about his older brother as his mother scolds him for something he has done himself. The convenience of being able to play sick helps many a child, and adult, around an unpleasant situation. This behavior originates from motives similar to those back of rationalizing. The danger of evasions of this kind is that they may deceive the person who makes them and sidetrack him from facing his difficulty, and thereby handicap him in making a more intelligent adjustment. For the moment, evasion may relieve the strain on one's self-respect; but it does not make one efficient for meeting future difficulties. Projections of blame, rationalization, and evasions of other sorts usually indicate that the person recognizes somewhere something inadequate in himself. A person from poor social background may feel inferior socially and project this feeling into snobbish acts. "Running down" our competitors is another common compensation for our own feeling of inferiority. Children with a certain temperament do not withdraw from reality and retreat into a world of daydreams and fantasy when they fail. But rather they "fly into" it. They become aggressive, boisterous, overbearing, and are inclined to bully. They make a great stir wherever they go in order to distract people from seeing their inferiority. The bully on the school grounds is frequently the laggard in the class room. He substituies aggressive behavior for scholastic success. Extreme cruelty to animals or other children may have its roots in frustration and feelings of inferiority. This kind of conduct is called compensation. It LESSON DEPARTMENT means substitution of what one can do well for what one cannot do well, or substitution of a satisfying way of doing for an unsatisfying way. The need for compensation always arises from a sense of inferioritv, and the compensation is aimed at building up one's importance in his own eyes, no matter whether the conduct is good in the eyes of others or not. Compensation for feelings of inferiority is to be discouraged when the substitute conduct is an undesirable kind. The dull bully makes the wrong kind of compensation. To compensate is the intelligent thing to do when the substitute is socially acceptable. The girl with a homely face may compensate by cultivating charming manners and a good disposition. This is a desirable kind of compensation. Many of our great geniuses have had feelings of inferiority which drove them to extreme effort in some other line in order to overcome those feelings. Napoleon is said to have been called a "little runt" during his boyhood and to have been influenced in his career by feelings of physical inferiority. The Kaiser is said to have had a crippled arm which affected his whole career. The blind, such as Helen Keller, sometimes exert extreme effort and succeed in compensating for their handicap and gain a feeling of self-value through excellence in a field in which they are not so handicapped. Alfred Adler. The originator of the notion of inferiority complex, goes so far as to say that almost all compensation has its origin in feeling of inferiority over some physical organ or capacity. Another type of personality adjustment is called repression. When a child has committed an act which is disapproved by his parents, frequently a sex act, he may "push it 821 out of his mind" because it is repugnant to his own conscience. This attempt to forget, or put out of mind, an unpleasant thought is called repression. When a conflict occurs in the mind of the child between his better self and what he has done, he is likely to cover up the thought and may actually forget it. Feelings of guilt may remain, however, and his self-regard is lowered because of a lingering remorse of which he may not be clearly conscious. He will not talk about these matters, either because they are too unpleasant or because he no longer knows them consciously after they are completely repressed. Recent theories lead us to think, however, that repressed or submerged ideas continue to influence the character of the child. They are often the basis of deep feelings of inferiority. The child may compensate for these feelings by becoming on the surface very prudish and overly righteous. He may fight his own gitilt by preaching to others and taking undue concern over their moral welfare. This condition is frequently found in adolescents who have violated the moral code in some way. Too strong teaching about sinfulness of certain acts in the sight of God and man causes much repression with the resulting personality difficulty in the child's adjustments. Some modern authorities think it would be wiser to always speak of mistakes, and drop the idea of sins. There is little doubt that teachings which impress the child with his sinfulness contribute a great deal to inferiority feelings. Children might be willing to talk about their mistakes, but not about their sins. Generally the best solution to the difficulties that arise from repressed ideas is to have the child "talk them out" if he can be induced to do so. 822 Usually this is a task which calls for an expert psychologist. The next lesson will be devoted to more practical suggestions on avoiding inferiority feelings through giving the child a carefully thought-out program through which he can succeed in satisfying his needs in proper ways. Personality adjustments spoken of in this lesson should make the parent aware of some ineffective ways a child may meet his frustrations. Recognition of the various means by which a child may attempt to escape from reality and to compensate for feelings of inferiority and failure should place the parent in a better position to help him to face his problems frankly and to make more intelligent solutions. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Problems For Discussion 1. Show how a crippled child's value of himself would likely be affected by other children nick-naming him "Crip." What two ways might he compensate for this feeling of inferiority? 2. Give an example from your experience of rationalizing. When does rationalizing become dangerous? 3. Show how day-dreaming is a retreat from reality. What is the usual cause? 4. How would you interpret some cases of bullying in the light of this lesson? 5. Give an example of an unwise and an example of a wise type of compensation for some feeling of inferiority. MY LADY IS A ROSE By Ella J. Coulam My lady is a budding rose Her petaled thoughts unfolding, She stands on the brink of womanhood Desires and hopes upholding. My lady is a full-blown rose A queen in a garden fair She guards her thoughts so tenderly Dispendsing perfume rare. My lady is a fading rose Bowed down in resignation— Her day is done, her victory won, Contentment, her compensation. A presents. HINT to the busy person—. Visit Mormon Handicraft Shop L, tive, hand-made articles which will make very acceptable Christmas presents. Honor Roll MAGAZINE DRIVE HIGHEST commendation is due our faithful and energetic Magazine Agents and those who have assisted them in making the Magazine Drive such an outstanding success. A splendid service has been rendered. The subscriptions this year are far in excess of any previous record. We thank all who have supported the Drive by subscribing. We trust the Magazine will be found a source of information, inspiration, and enjoyment to all. Many Agents have worked very hard and yet not attained the goal set. We trust these Sisters will not be discouraged. While high percentages are most gratifying, if the best possible effort has been put forth, that is all that anyone can do. Some wards may find the percentages listed differ from those sent in to this office. These wards either did not include the inactive roll in figuring their percentages or slight discrepancies were found in enrollment figures when checking with the 1937 annual report. A subscription coming from a mother and daughter, both members of the Society, living in one home, is a factor in determining the percentage. At the April Relief Society Conference bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine will be awarded the following ten Sisters for having secured the highest percentage of subscriptions: Ward Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Magazine Agent Hurstville Branch Australian Mission 8 27 = 388- Violet Cook Worland Big Horn 16 52 325 Clara Gheen Milo No. Idaho Falls 15 46 307 Lila Gildea Cody Big Horn 16 41 256 Zelda Moore Basin Big Horn 17 32. 188 Lova Kinghorn La Grande Ist Union 33 56 175 Emma Stringham Oakley 2nd Cassia 22 37 168 Josephine Gorringe Pittsburg Eastern Sts. Mis. 12 20 167 Gwen R. Wrathall McGill Nevada 70 116 166 Louisa Johnson Eighth Ogden 79 «6130-165 Alta H. Poulson OME interesting letters have been received in connection with the Drive, revealing the industry and ingenuity of the Magazine Agents and also the scope and influence of our work. Sister Violet Cook of the Hurstville Branch of the Australian Mission reports an enrollment of 8 members, with 27 subscriptions, making a percentage of 338. One subscriber lives 1,300 miles south of Hurstville, two 1,850 miles north, one 870 and another 850 miles distant. This shows that letters have been written far and near in an effort to place the Magazine in the homes of the people. Sister Cornelia Staker Peterson writes from College, Alaska: "I received your letter, also the sample copies of the Magazine. I loaned them and they did the work. I didn't care to be the only one in 'Uncle Sam's Attic' enjoying our wonderful Magazine. I have secured two subscriptions and hope to add more." This is the first time subscriptions have been received from this far away place. Many other equally interesting reports have been received. We congratulate these sisters on their achievement. 824 Ward Imbler Sixth Center Wash. Powell Pacheco anavy Binghampton Berkeley Tensleep Garland Palo Alto 29th Branch Arcadia Phoenix 3rd Antimony ine Fourth 20th Glendale Capitol Hil] Wilson Clearfield Mapleton eman San Jose esa First Adams Reynolds arper Elmhurst Mission Balboa San Francisco Arlington Slaterville Baker Omaha Sixteenth Fielding linton Hillcrest Leland una Philadelphia Hooper Burlington Montello Branch iamondville Taper First Oseville Twin Groves Chester Logan Square hoenix First Rexburg Second Sixth Grantsyille First incoln Mesa Third RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OTHER WARDS 100% Stake Union eden Wasatch Eastern Sts. Mis. Big Horn uarez Utah Eastern Sts. Mis. Akland Big Horn ear River San Francisco Salt Lake uchesne \ aricopa Garfield Maricopa Utah Ensign Maricopa Salt Lake Eastern Sts. Mis. 0. Davis Franklin ellowstone San Francisco Maricopa Hollywood Malad Box Elder Oakland San Francisco San Francisco an Francisco ollywood North Weber Nion. West. States Mis. Alt Lake Bear River Weber Grant Palmyra St. Johns astern Sts. Mis, Weber Big Horn Mt. Ogden Woodruff East Jordan Sacramento Yellowstone Chicago Maricopa Rexburg Pocatello 'ooele Idaho Falls Maricopa AND OVER Enroll, No. Sub, Pet. Magazine Agent Mattie Westenskow Maude Faris zzens Margaret B. Cluff arie Bennett llen L, Now Edith Pyle nnie Duncan Addren Isaacson Leah 0, Martin Katharine Riegler Rose D. Gilbert Thressa Price Mary kK. Riddle qna P. Hunt lla Re ock Frederikka Duffner Ts. Florence Garn Angeline Child iola Cahoon ae Thomas lara Snyder ertrude Southgate lorence § joblom ellie Boller Ward Ensign Holbrook Pella Preston Second Charleston Linden Richards Unity Burlingame Malad First Marian Milwaukee Thirteenth Detroit Branch Dimond Eleventh Kanesville Nineteenth Fourth Heber Third Manchester Oakley Third South Gate Burbank Evans Fish Haven Heber Hilliard Lehi Maywood Nibley Park Racine Branch Linrose Martinez Thayne Winslow Brigham 2nd Burley 3rd Hayward Le Grande Pinedale Pleasant Grove 2nd Redondo 12-13th 27th Alameda oy Edgehill Goshen Lovell Second Spencer Sunset 12th Wilshire Grantsville 2nd Highland Park Shelley lst 20th Tremonton 2nd Aberdeen Altoona HONOR ROLL Ensign 75 81 111 Snowflake 28 31 111 Burley 36 40 "111 Franklin 63 70 111 Wasatch 48 53 110 Snowflake 10 11 110 Granite 96 106 110 Burley 39 43 110 San Francisco 32 a5 109 Malad 63 69 109 Cassia 22 24 109 Chicago 45 46 109 Ogden 88 96 109 No. States Mis. 50 54 108 Oakland 77 83 108 Ensign 105 111 108 Weber 25 27 108 Weber 59 64 108 Cache 152 162 107 Wasatch 96 103 107 Los Angeles 45 48 107 Cassia 30 32 107 Los Angeles 57 61 107 Pasadena 38 40 106 Box Elder 18 19 106 Bear Lake 36 38 106 Snowflake 16 17 106 Woodruff 18 19 106 Maricopa 35 37 106 Los Angeles 40 42 106 Granite 93 99 106 Chicago 15 16 106 Franklin 20 21 105 Oakland 20 21 105 Snowflake 41 43 105 Box Elder 84 87 104 Burley 56 68 104 Oakland 27 28 104 Bonneville 76 73 104 Snowflake 26 27 104 Timpanogos 45 47 104 Long Beach 25 26 104 Ensign 100 102 104 Ensign 86 87 104 Oakland 30 31 103 Weber 61 63 103 Highland 90 92 102 Shelley 48 49 102 Big Horn 100 102 102 So. Davis 117 119 102 Oquirrh 50 51 102 San Francisco 46 47 102 Mt. Ogden 138 140 102 Hollywood 86 90 102 Tooele 71 72 101 Highland 75 76 101 Shelley 82 81 101 Bear River 90 91 101 Blackfoot 63 63 100 Eastern Sts. Mis. 6 6 100 825 Magazine Agent Ruby C. Clark Anna G. Thomas Maud K. Brown Nettie Handy Mary Casper Etta C. Rogers Jennie Hardy Juliana Nielson Harriet Hill Mary L. Mills Hattie Tolman Elise Schnette Edith Wilson Madge Sweetin Lillian Rigby Edith Fletcher Aleen H. Hansen Toss Kersch Alvena Carlson Annie K. Moulton Gladys Gilberstein La Vina Critchfield Naomi Whales Mrs. F. R. Flinders Alice Buxton Harriet Jensen Elva Shelley Navin Lym. Lola Williams Alice Taylor Emma Armstrong Florence Boy Margaret Hobbs Audie Johnson Elise F, Roberts Jessie B. Smith Sarah H. Horsley Mrs. D. G. Parker Eva Loomis Malinda C. Hicken Lorene K. Petersen Effa Williams Olive Pugmire Alma Erickson Jeanette McArthur Marie Meuter Jane Hyden Gwen W. Jensen Rosie Van Orden Hazel Davis Annie C. Carr Rebecca Young Millie Johnson Esther H. Porter Hilda Jorgensen Merinda Tate Effie H. Chipman Esther Christensen Mattie H. Manning Belva Laub Lillie Stone A. E. Detwiler Stake Star Valley Ogden Enroll. No. Sub. Pet. 37, 39S «1085 73 «74 ~=«401 826 Ward Basin Buffalo Canandaigua Cedron Centerdale Delta 2nd East Garland Eleventh Emigration Evanston Ist Evanston 2nd Farnum First Hanna Heber 2nd Highland Kanesville Lovell West Mud Lake Oakland Perry Pomona San Rafael 17th Springdale 3rd Torrance Tremonton Ist Vernon Burley lst Dublan 18th Harvard Mesa 2nd Rexburg 3rd Salem Union Clay Springs Preston 6th Vallejo Afton North Holden Mesa 4th Alpine Granite Huntington Beach Tempe Egin College Deweyville Fifth Gilmer Park Phoenix 2nd Richfield Duchesne Gilbert Lava Eagar RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pet. Cassia 13 13 100 Eastern Sts. Mis. 10 9 100 Eastern Sts. Mis. 8 5 100 Teton 20 18 100 Bear River 8 8 100 Deseret 71 71 100 Bear River 39 39 100 Weber 81 81 100 Bonneville 76 76 100 Woodruff 107 107 100 Woodruff 70 70 100 Yellowstone 21 21 100 Weber 91 91 100 Duchesne 13 13 100 Wasatch 84 84 100 Alpine 27 27 100 Weber 27 27 100 Big Horn 144 135 100 No Idaho Falls 20 20 100 Oakland 57 57 100 Box Elder 39 39 100 San Bernardino 18 18 100 San Francisco 13 13 100 Mt. Ogden 94 94 100 Burley 26 26 100 Pocatello 110 110 100 Long Beach 24 24 100 Bear River 85 85 100 St. Johns 10 10 100 WARDS 75% AND UP TO 100% Burley 52 51 98 Juarez 42 41 98 Mt Ogden 80 78 98 Liberty 61 60 98 Maricopa 114 112 98 Rexburg 47 46 98 Palmyra 114 108 98 Union 44 43 98 Snowflake 25 24 96 Franklin 55 §3 96 Oakland 23 22 96 Star Valley 63 60 95 Millard 95 73 95 Maricopa 75 71 95 St. Johns 18 17 94 East Jordan 17 16 94 Long Beach 17 16 94 Maricopa 34 32 94 Yellowstone 33 31 94 Logan 43 40 93 Bear River 29 27 93 Utah 96 89 93 Bonneville 72 65 93 Maricopa 100 93 93 Blaine 31 29 93 Duchesne 49 45 92 Maricopa 24 22 92 Alpine 47 51 92 St. Johns 103 73 91 Magazine Agent Nellie B. Martin Grace H. Warnke Vera Dunn Letha Kunz Mrs. John Smith Trene Little Virginia Adams Lythia Patterson Ida Von Nordeck Edith Davis Martha Johnston LeVera Hendrickson Margaret Vernieuw Emily H. Moon Roda Hair Emily Hyde Aileen Hansen Daphne Despain Myrtle Rose Esther Cooley Selma G. Thorne Mary Snell Louise Bernard Mattie Vogel Mrs. Thos. Dayley Rozilla Tolman Hortense B. Smith Dorma Brough Caddie J. Whiting Delva Hanks Bernice Coon Mrs. A. N. Burton Trene C. Brain Harriet D. Stradling Emily A. Ricks Christy W. Sabin Rose Koffard Margaret Witt Olive Lewis Ida Fullen Melba Erickson Josephine Stephenson Grace Burton Annie Hamblin and Myrl Arrott Emma Beckstead Edna Allred Lauvon Cone Eva P. Cruser Mrs. Edith Albiston Louise Holdaway Mrs. Rod Snow Rachel Watts Mary J. Cosby Uvada Brown Matilda Wright Jennie B, Lamb Grace Coates Lurana B. Eagar Ward Lindon Littlefield Mayfield Pioche West Bountiful Belfry Blanding Burley 2nd Elwood Flowell Lynn-Salem 31st Welling Independence Joseph City Meadow Richmond Sublett Baltimore Chandler Lava Lehi lst Sacramento Woodland Archer Central Park Crescent Gunnison Garcia New Bedford Ontario Weston Yuba Kimball Wrentham Coltman Firth Laketown nmmore Branch Hawthorne Midway 2nd Palmyra Tyrells Lake Declo Emerson Gridley Ucon Lund. Pocatello 5th 22nd University Windsor Yalecrest Auburn Belvedere Cherry Creek Circleville Highland Paris Ist Pocatello 2nd Preston Sth HONOR ROLL Stake Timpanogos Moapa Gunnison Moapa South Davis Big Horn San Juan Burley Bear River Millard Eastern Sts. Mis. Liberty Taylor Rexburg Snowflake Millard Oakland Raft River Eastern Sts. Mis. Maricopa Portneuf Lehi Sacramento Portneuf Rexburg Grant East Jordan Gunnison Juarez Eastern Sts. Mis. San Bernardino Franklin Gridley Alberta Taylor No. Idaho Falls Shelley Bear Lake Australian Mission Granite Wasatch + Eastern Sts. Mis. Taylor Burley Highland Gridley No. Idaho Falls Nevada Pocatello Salt Lake Ensign Timpanogos Bonneville Star Valley Los Angeles Malad Garfield Wasatch Bear Lake Pocatello Franklin Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 57 52 91 17 10 91 69 63 91 34 31 91 55 50 91 10 9 90 142 = 126 90 98 88 90 51 46 90 24 21 90 10 9 90 120 =108 90 ral 19 90 32 28 89 56 48 89 56 43 89 28 25 89 9 8 89 28 22 88 48 42 88 8 7 88 83 73 88 34 30 88 17 15 88 50 43 87 61 53 87 52 45 87 52 45 87 14 12 86 7 6 86 21 18 86 94 84 86 35 30 86 20 17 85 13 11 85 49 41 84 37 31 &4 38 32 84 23 19 83 137 109 83 59 49 83 12 10 83 18 15 83 67 55 82 138 113 82 44 36 82 73 60 82 31 28 81 98 79 81 70 57 81 70 56 81 74 60 81 76 60 81 25 20 80 93 74 80 25 20 80 76 61 80 122 98 80 60 48 80 80 64 80 35 28 80 827 Magazine Agent Nettie Mecham Sadie Rollins Amelia Larson Ora Price Cristie E. Wood Mary Youst Freda Hunt Carrie Fernell Martina Larson Ruth Allen Gertrude E. Fogg Josephine Bruderer Elizabeth Bullock Pauline Perry Estella Cummings Britta Pearson Blanch Harmon Sylvia Olsen Mary Morgan Ada Joiner Margaret Symons Lenore F. Jones Marie Gibby Elsie Bloxhom Iva Weeks Agnes Adamson Anna Smith Ann H. Peery Ida Kartchner Eleanore Rimmer Grace Heath Amanda Frederickson Ruth Johnson Mary A. Wheeler Hettie Aliason Mary Stucki Ada Johnson Eunice V. Orvin Margaret Rood Julia Carver Mrs. Susan Probst Maude L. Collins Clara E. Selk Terissa Parks Agnes Kirk Florence Jensen Millie Hill Ellen Fawcett Beth Orr Lucy W. Holmes Emma S. Teudt Mary B. Hales Ruth J. Howells Elizabeth Johnson Percilla Lundeen Merle Moon Elsie Simkins Isabelle McKenzie Catherine Innes Florence Winters Myrtle Palmer 828 Ward Santa Rosa Chuachupa Hartley La Grande 2nd Logan 2nd Malad 2nd Marriott Riverdale Sugar House 24th Wilford Yale Bothwell Sth. Huntington Park Hyrum Ist Liberty Pittsburg River Heights Riverdale Burton 14th Hyrum 3rd Mayfield 10th 22nd Benson Flagstaft Jameston Mathews Ninth Pleasant View Pocatello Ist Stratford Sugar City 2nd Whittier Butler Eighteenth Fall River Homestead Lyman Newburgh Seventh 17th Sixth Star Twelfth Twenty-first Young Stake San Francisco Union Oakland Maricopa Big Horn Ensign Burley RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Stake San Francisco Juarez Alberta Union Logan Malad No. Weber Weber Highland Salt Lake Yellowstone Bonneville Bear River Salt Lake Los Angeles Hyrum Bear Lake Oakland Logan Weber Rexburg Mt. Ogden Hyrum Gunnison No. Weber Weber Cache Snowflake Shelley Los Angeles Cache Malad Pocatello Highland Rexburg Wells East Jordan Ensign Enroll. No. Sub. Pet. Eastern Sts. Mis. Sacramento Rexburg Eastern Sts. Mis. Logan Salt Lake Utah = Burley Logan Ensign Logan STAKES 75% AND OVER Enroll No. Sub. Percent 118 115 110 105 98 % 94 Magazine Agent Edith Ross 79 Cora Judd 79 Edith Ackroyd 79 Mrs. F. L. Caldwell 79 Inez R. Thain 79 Mary King 79 Sarah H. Parry 79 Belva Vance 79 Ellen. Hampton 79 Mrs. C. Thompson Myrtle Romrell Chloe M. Jacob 78 Hattie Evans 78 Mary Price and Lillie King 78 Luella Kendall 78 Mattie Christiansen 78 Sarah Hymas 78 Undine Kutch 78 Violet Niedcrhauser 78 Belva D. Vance 77, Annie A. Briggs 77 Eliza Watts 77° 'Julia K. Nielsen 77 Amelia C. Larsen 77 Ellen L. Collins 77 Ada Baker 76 Carrie A. Reese 76 Dena Sheehan 76 Nora Fiedling 76 Elizabeth Bowen 76 Verna C. Jackson 76 Ann M. Bailey 76 Bessie England 76 Leone Karpowitz 76 Florence K. Bean 76 Gertrude Campbell 75 Eva Boyce 75 Iverne Wallace 75 Annie E. Sarvard 75 Ruby Alltop 75 Mary M. Robinson 75 Mrs. Arthur Quick 75 Mary S. Bjorkman 75 Julia G. Miller 75 Edna Smart 75 Rula Tilley 75 Thelma S. Fuller 75 Mary H. Jordan 75 Emma Speth Magazine Agent Naomi S. McCabe Lila B. Walch Adrian Gee Zina Dana Ellen H. Jolley Rose H. Neeley Nellie R. Barlow 292 171 395 744 630 787 460 342 192 436 779 607 756 432 Stake Weber Bonneville Wasatch Franklin Highland Chicago Los Angeles Mount Ogden Salt Lake Granite Juarez St. Johns Utah Hollywood Ogden Snowflake Shelley Timpanogos Enroll 638 HONOR ROLL No, Sub. Percent 829 Magazine Agent Mabel C. Ellis Christina V. Wilson Lacy Swain Jeanette S. Barton Kathleen Beckstrand Marie B. Coburn Della H. Wilson Vaborg R. Wheelwright Clara B. Wright Pearl H Crockett Jennie Bowman Sarah A, Witbank Clara W. Giles Anna Blair Lois D. Smith Lulu J. Smith Elva Payne Helen S. Walker He is the happiest, be he king or peasant, who finds peace in his home.—Goethe. He who loveth a book will never want a faithful friend, a wholesome counselor, a cheerful companion or an effectual comforter —Isaac Barrow. That is a good book, it seems to me, which is opened with expectation and closed with profit—Louisa M. Alcott. The secret of happiness is not in doing what one likes but in liking what one has to do.—James M. Barrie. My Surprise Garden By Genevieve V. Hunt | OW often we hear people say, "T would love to have a flower garden, but I am always too busy to take care of one." I too, was under the impression that raising flowers meant a lot of time and hard work. That, however, was before I started my Surprise Garden. My first venture began with two tiny begonia slips that proved so fascinating in their development, I could not resist the temptation of adding pot after pot of other treasures. Now, summer and winter I have a healthy looking indoor garden that has the magnetic power of holding visitors entranced with its colorful beauty. It is surprising the little time and work that is required to care for potted plants. A withered leaf to pluck—water for the thirsty ones— a gentle loosening of the soil. Most everyone can spare the few minutes needed each day, no matter how busy they may be. LET us glance over some of my favorites and I will tell you about them. The Umbrella Plant (Cyperus alternifolius) is a handsome ornamental palm-like plant that needs very little care, and plenty of water. A new plant is easily started by inverting one of the umbrella shaped leaves in a glass of water. When strong looking roots have formed, and a new shoot appears, plant in a pot of rich soil and set in a saucer of water. I have several varieties of begonia, all of them profuse bloomers and very beautiful. They are easy to grow if given plenty of moisture and are not exposed to the full rays of the sun. My favorite of the begonia family is the Beefsteak, a low spreading plant, with circular leaves, red beneath and glossy green above. This does not require much light, and will thrive where most begonias refuse to grow. It is an admirable plant for a window that is shaded by a porch or trees. The flowers of the Beefsteak are a dainty pinkish white. To propagate, cut the rhizomes in one inch pieces and plant like seeds in damp sand. When new growth begins repot in 2 parts loam, 1 part sand, 1/2 part leafmold, and 1/2 part prepared manure. Begonias need good drainage and_ several pieces of broken crockery should be placed in the bottom of the pot before the soil is added. A well-established plant should be repotted with fresh soil once a year. The Sansevieria or Golden Striped Snake Plant is most striking. It is very hardy and can stand just about anything but frost and too much water. New plants can be started by cutting one of the leaves across in two inch sections and planting in sand. St. Bernard's Lily makes a handsome pot plant, with its recurved, graceful foliage and large spikes of white flowers. It likes plenty of sunshine, and should be planted in a roomy container, as it thrives better when the roots are not cramped. Like the Umbrella Plant, the St. Bernard's Lily is very simple to propogate. Cut off a bunch of leaves from the long stem, and put in water. In a few weeks a new plant will sprout, pot it and keep it well watered. The common geranium is not hard MY SURPRISE GARDEN to grow, and it can be relied upon to keep the house looking gay. It needs sun, and should be potted in rich sandy loam. If given too much water the geranium will sprout profuse foliage, but few blooms. English Ivy succeeds admirably and adds to the beauty of any window garden. It is a vigorous grower, and can be trimmed into any shape or trained over a window. Strings should be fastened for it to climb on. The strong green string used by florists is best. Ivies require a rather heavy soil made of 3 parts soil and 1 part manure. Press the soil down very firmly so that air will not get to the roots. The plant should be given plenty of moisture but care should be taken that the soil does not become soggy. The Wax Plant is a climbing house plant, and is particularly beautiful when in bloom. The fragrant, wax-white flowers have pink centers and produce in succession. It is an interesting plant at all times. Wandering Jew is one of the easiest and most satisfying vines for house culture, as it thrives equally well in either soil or water. It has surprising decorative value when arranged in glass, or pottery containers, and is delightful for brightening up the mantle or adding charm to a table. It is also most lovely in a hanging basket. The Boston Fern is the hardiest and most likeable of all the sword ferns. It is very attractive and grows fairly rapidly. Unlike most ferns it will not be ruined or killed if neglected for a day or two. The Boston will grow in most any soil, but a well drained sandy loam is best. 831 SOUTH windows are preferable for Surprise Gardens, but I have plants that are doing very nicely in east and west windows. In potting plants I place pieces of broken crockery or small stones in the bottom of the pot for drainage, then fill with good rich soil. The best time of the year to repot house plants is in the spring when new growths start. After potting water the plants thoroughly, and set them in a shaded place until the roots have taken hold of the new soil. Then gradually inure them to the sunlight. If they need feeding through the winter, because of large growth, give them a prepared plant food. Reliable plant food can be bought at almost any seed store. Plants grown in a window will always turn to the light, and unless they are moved frequently, they will become onesided. When they gather dust spray them with a hand syringe, or rub a damp sponge over the leaves. On cold nights pull the pots away from the windows, and place newspapers in front of the glass. Indoor gardens must have fresh air, no matter how freezing the weather is. The cold air, however, should be mixed with the warm air in the room before it reaches the plants. This can be arranged by opening a window, or door, for a minute or two on the opposite side of the room. My garden has cost me very little as everything in it, with the exception of the Boston Fern, has been grown from seeds or slips. Those who have Surprise Gardens need not sigh when winter puts an end to outdoor blooms. Their potted plants will keep them cheerful, and more than satisfied throughout the long snowy months. ey Do We Celebrate Christmas? By Eva K. Thomas that day? The celebration of that day grew out of an old Pagan festival held at this time of year called, "The birthday of the Sun." The Pagans were very fond of pageantry and this festival was a favorite. So out of this, the idea grew of using that time to celebrate the birth of the Spiritual Son of the world. This gradually took the place of the old Pagan festival. OW the celebration of Christmas is universal and yet the customs differ in many countries. In Devonshire, England, it is said the bees hum all night long in their hives the night before Christmas. If you are wise you will go and wish them a Merry Christmas and hang a bit of holly on each hive, else you may get no honey next year. You must never ask to borrow a match or a bit of fire on Christmas Day, because fire is the symbol of the heart of the house and of happiness. One must never take away but only add to. In Norway there is a beautiful custom, "The Ceremony of Feeding the Birds." Two or three days before Christmas bunches of oats are placed on the roofs and tied to the branches of trees and shrubs, loads of grain being brought into towns for this special purpose. No one would think of sitting down to his own dinner without first giving every animal on the place an extra portion in the name of Christ. Why do we give gifts? Is it because the Wise Men gave gifts to Jesus? Or is it because of our Heavenly Father's great gift to the world—the gifts of love and everlasting life which He gave us when He sent His only begotten Son to teach the world how to live. Then if we give gifts to light anew the fires of love and friendship that Christ brought to us are we doing so in the right spirit? Gift giving is symbolic, symbolic of love, friendship and peace. Christmas and our gift giving then should radiate a feeling of peace and good will toward men,—a feeling of deep appreciation for those qualities which Christ sought to teach, humbleness of spirit, strength of character and a great love for those about us. So great a love that self is denied. HEN is it not time that we contemplate a bit and try to discover just what we are doing to Christmas? Are we really celebrating the birthday of our Savior in a fashion that would be pleasing unto Him? Are we ministering in a humble way to those less fortunate? Are we making our gift giving a sincere offer on the altar of love, friendship and brotherhood, or a matter of show and glitter that is an effort to cover a selfish desire for flaunting? Today the Christmas holiday hag become so commercialized that we are apt to lose sight of its spiritual side. The customs in many far-away countries speak of a humbleness, a desire to make every living creature happy on this, Christ's Day. Let us develop the spiritual side and make of Christmas a festival commemorating the birth of the Son of God. Charity By Margaret E. Shrewsbury RUE Charity does not "donate". It does not "give". It knows no patronage nor sense of superiority. True Charity loves actively. It shares. It feels the troubles, the cold, hunger, pain, despair of those it seeks to bless. Poverty or constant trouble beats one almost senseless. It dulls the brain, slows the body, but it cannot always conquer sensitivity. It cannot always deaden self-respect, real manhood and womanhood.: We offer our cast-off garments, clean, no doubt, but out of style, perhaps torn or mended and patched, and we feel we have shown "charity". Should our cast-offs be repulsed, we'd be shocked and irritated. We'd say, "Well, if they're so poor, they should be glad to have anything given to them!" How little we understand. It isn't the hole in the garment, or the patched and mended place, it isn't the warmed-over food that is frowned upon, no... Not these... It is the patronage with which the gift was offered that caused the implusive rebuff! Ah! How the poor hate Charity. Yet are we commanded to have Charity. Listen to the words of Paul to the Corinthians. Study them and compare his Charity with Charity as the world today knows it. "Though I speak with the tongues of men and of Angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. "And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. "And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. "Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself; is not puffed up. "Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil;; "Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth. "Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things; "Charity never faileth...." WE HAVE many plans for curing present-day inequality. "Share the Wealth", "Old Age Pension", "Communism", '"'Radicalism", many "Isms", but the one great plan of "Charity", of "Love of God" and "Love of Man"... Of Sharing, of Understanding, is not advocated. "Love the Lord thy God with all thy might, mind and heart, and love thy neighbor as thyself." In that simple sentence, the best and greatest Man who ever lived, gave us the solution for all our ills. "But I love God and my neighbor! I obey the ten commandments. I give food to the beggars who come to the door". You say, and I say. Of course! But think beneath it all. What more is meant? Some live the letter, some live the spirit, but alas, few of us live it whole-heartedly and without reservation. "It is one thing to give to those we know and love. To give to strangers what we do not want or need, of food or of clothing, but the most precious gift of all, understanding, few of us can spare the time to give! And Understanding behind our material gifts is Charity at its best! To love the Lord, our God, with alt our might, mind and heart, we must foreswear all evil, all appearance of evil, every word, thought and action that is unclean, unfine, 834 that will hurt or detract from beauty and truth. O LOVE our fellow-man, we must dig down to bed-rock. We must understand him, his needs, dreams, hopes, fears, weakness. Cease to find fault with superficial things, hunt beneath the surface for the cause of his actions, words or looks that irritate us. Cease to hunt for snubs, and forget those obvious ones we do not imagine. In fact, we must display the qualities of Charity as Paul defined it. "Almost impossible for human nature as human nature is today," you say. Yet, Christ lived it. He advocated it, and until we do live it ourselves, there can be no unity. WERE I as rich as Croesus, I would have a difficult time sharing with my poorer relatives and friends. Why? Because they would not understand my true motives. They would drift away. A few would accept my bounty, demanding a share, but they'd say, "Oh, she can afford it", not realizing they had anything that I might need. They might or might not envy me, but they'd no longer share with me their thoughts and companionship. They would feel constrained in my presence, because of my finer apparel, and the fact that they could not return my gifts with ones as good. I know this, because it is my own reaction toward those of my friends who are better off than I. But were they to have Charity, to understand me, they would sense the loneliness, the longing for sweet, fine companionship, my desire to be loved for myself. They would know that I wanted only to share my wealth with them, not condescendingly, but humbly because I could RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gain no pleasure from it except through sharing it with them,... Understanding all this, they would return gift for gift, in the simple, loving thoughts and little kindnesses no one is ever too poor to offer. And were I, on my part, to understand their attitude, I would strife harder to make them understand me. To show my love and humility. We would both then realize that my wealth was not mine alone, but their's and God's, and had been given into my custody to dispense with to the best of my ability. But few of us understand all this, and we are miserable in our poverty or our wealth. We cannot or will not, share what we do have, wholeheartedly. IT IS a human need to share. To enjoy a beautiful sunset, we must show it to someone else, hear their exclamations. To enjoy music, we must have one to listen while we make it, or to make it for us. Love begets love, kindness meets kindness. "Give love and love to your life will flow A strength in your uttermost need, Have faith, and a score of hearts will show Their faith in your word and deed. "Give truth and your gift will be paid in kind And honor will honor meet And a smile that is sweet will surely find A smile that is just as sweet. "For life is the mirror of King and slave 'Tis just what we are and do! Then give to the world the best you have And the best will come back to you." —Madeline S. Bridges. SHARE not your possessions alone, but share your mind, your heart, your time with God and man. Share humility and faith, begrudging nothing. Then will come peace and unity. Love will sway us, and God will reign supreme. Spond this Winton Profitably A small investment of time NOW will yield rich returns throughout your life. Our short, intensive courses will qualify you to meet the demands of modern business employers. Gregg Shorthand Stenotypy Typewriting Machine Calculation Bookkeeping Walton Accounting Business English Personality Development Penmanship Business Law Etc. Your welfare is given first consideration here—and our excellent plant, modern equipment, and thoroughly competent faculty assure you every opportunity to make this winter count! The demand for young men is particularly strong now. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Please send me full information about the L. D. S. Business College. Names Address: 2... You send at CHRISTMAS TIME is a strand in the bonds that unite you to your friends and loved ones. Do not fail to make your selection from our ample stock—NOW. Call or write THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah Hehen Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah WINTER PEACE THE peace of snow-covered mountains is beautiful to see. So is the peace of a man or woman who enters the winter-time of life free from past regrets and future fears. But where there is fear of economic insecurity, there can be no peace. Life insurance offers the means toward security in old age, and thus prepares the way for peace and contentment in the winter season of life. A Beneficial agent will be pleased to explain how, through a planned insurance program in this strong company, you can achieve security for your old age. For the name of your nearest Beneficial agent write the home office.; BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING, SALT LAKE City. UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT ~~ Allen cameron: 502 Title & Trust Bldg., Phoenix, Ariz.; R. F. Cottle. 420 Idaho Bldg., Boise, GENERAL AGENTS Idaho; D. Greenwood, 208-11 Jennie Rogers 'Bldg., Idaho Falls, Idaho; David Petersen, 225 David Eccles Bldg., Ontea Utah; Woodrow M. Rigby, 201 Insurance Bldg., Sacramento, Calif.; Thos, H. Robinson, 810 White Bid Seattle, Wash.; H. M. Rollins, Lyman, Wyo.; Thos. L. Smart, 202 Wonder Bldg., Reno, Nev.; Roy Utley, 310 Park Central Bldg., Los Angeles, Calif.; Archer Willey. 605 California Bldg., Oakland, Calif.; Geo. A Sundel 4335 Sacramento Ave., Chico, Calif. 
