RELIEF SOCIETY JANUARY, 1916 SPECIAL ARTICLES » MOTHERS IN ISRAEL With Illustration MA'S NEW YEAR RESOLUTION Elsie C. Carroll VISIT OF ABERDEENS TO UTAH With Illustrations NOTES FROM THE FIELD Amy Brown Lyman OUTLINES FOR 1916 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c Vol. III Established 1877 Phone Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY 100 Calling Cards Engraved For $1.50, Postage Paid Everyone should have a nice calling card, and we want you to call on us for same Pembroke Company Kindly mention this The Home of Fine Stationery and Engraving magazine when ordering 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah NOW READY! A new 800 page volume When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct "JESUS THE CHRIST" By DR. JAMES E. TALMAGE Style, Excellence and From the Press of The Deseret News This is the work of which notice has Satisfaction been given in the Official Announcement published by the First Presidency of the Church. It presents the Life and Mission of the Messiah from the view-point of the The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Studio Bound in half leather, cloth sides, $ .30 post paid 1 Phone Was. 3491 44MainSt. Deseret News Book Store The Leading Book Concern BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. JANUARY, 1916. Byron's Unpublished Prayer 1 Mothers in Israel 3 Within the Locket Alfred Lambourne 6 Ma's New Year's Resolutions Elsie C. Carroll 7 Lord and Lady Aberdeen in Utah 13 Jobwebs Annie D. S. Palmer 18 The Prince of Ur Homespun 19 Mental Hygiene for Women Past Fifty 30 The Bride's Mother Nabby Howe 33 Notes from the Field Amy B. Lyman 35 Snowflake Stake History Lulu J. Smith 38 Current Topics James H. Anderson 41 Instructions and Recipes Mme. Rover 44 Miscellaneous Notes Janette A. Hyde 45 Poems by Emmeline B. Wells 46 Editorial: A New Year Resolve 47 Guide Lessons 49 International Congress of Genealogy. . .Journal of Heredity 61
ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY. Patronize those who advertise with us. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City. MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City. "MUSINGS AND MEMORIES," by President Emmeline B. Wells. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. PEMBROKE CO., STATIONERY, 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J, Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City. THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City. TAYLOR. S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St., Salt Lake City. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. U. P. R. R., Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City.
To help busy mothers select the Housewives Should right kind of books for their children Pay By Check is one of our greatest pleasures. Write to us — we'll help you. Paying household bills by check is the safe, convenient, DESERET clean and entirely satisfactory method. The check will record Sunday School Union each item of expense, month BOOK STORE by month 44 East on South Temple At this bank every courtesy Salt Lake City, Utah is extended to ladies. We invite your accounts. Our officers and clerks are glad to give help and advice at any time. SALT LAKE'S "The Bank with a LADY FLORIST Personality" Mrs. Emma J. Sanders Merchant's Bank 278 South Main Street Capital $250,000 Member of Salt Lake Clearing House Schramm-Johnson No. 5 John Pingree, Pres Chas. E. Kaiser. ; V. P.; Moroni Heiner, V. P.; A. H. Phone Wasatch 2815 Peabody, Cashier; Radcliffe Q. Cannon, D. R. Pingree, Asst. Cashiers Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City Salt Lake City, Utah ^= J Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 the purpose THE IT this is UTAH STATE of Bank at times to render S.M.TAYLOR & Co. NATIONAL all BANK helpful service and Undertakers and Embalmers SALT LAKE CITY make the handling SUCCESSORS TO UTAH of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 Years in One Location UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK 251-257 E. First South Street Salt Lake City, Utah Your Account is Cordially Invited Efficient Service. Modern Methods, Complete Equipment JOSEPH F. SMITH. Pres.
Byron's Unpublished Prayer. (A Favorite Poem of the Prophet Joseph Smith.) My soul is sick of this long day. I am weary of its lingering light; And, loathing light, I turn away I weep and wish for night. I long to lay me gently down In slumber on my mother's breast. I would exchange an Emperor's crown For everlasting rest. Without my own consent I came, But with my wildest wish I'd go. For I would fain to be the same I was ere born to woe. This cold, hushed heart, with no pale gleams Of consciousness to wake or waste, Would fain have slept within those dreams Of everlasting rest. And now, in manhood's morn, I stand, I've lived the laurel wreath to gain, My songs are heard in every land And beauty breathes the strain. Her smiles, her sweetest tears, are mine, And yet of love vain youth possessed. How gladly would I all resign For everlasting rest.
MRS. LUCY MACK SMITH, MOTHER OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH.
THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. III. JANUARY, 1916. No. 1.
Mothers in Israel. Among the thousands of great and noble women who have assisted in laying the foundations of this Church, the Mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith stands out pre-eminent and glorious. She is the great modern Mother in Israel. She accepted the Prophet's mission from the very first moment that she heard it, she rendered obedience to every revealed law, during her life, she reverenced her husband and her prophet-son, Joseph, and after his martyrdom, she still gave her full support and allegiance to Brigham Young and the Twelve Apostles, as shown in the testimony which accompanies this article. "Mother" Smith, as she was lovingly called, was a dominating figure in any assemblage where she happened to be. She was commanding in appearance, keen in intellect, dignified and gracious in manner, and she loved the sick, the poor, and the unfortunate, with an abiding tenderness. She was the soul of hospitality and generosity. Together with her noble husband, she ministered to all who came for help or shelter beneath their generous roof-tree. When young people came into her presence, they often kneeled before her as they spoke to her, so beautiful was the spirit which shone from her dark and glowing eyes. We give the following sketch of her life, taken in extracts from Jenson's Biographical Dictionary a book, by the way, which ought to be in every Relief Society library "Lucy Smith, mother of Joseph Smith the Prophet, was born July 8, 1776, at Gilsum, Cheshire county, New Hampshire, the daughter of Solomon Mack and Lydia Gates. Lucy was the youngest of eight children, four of whom were girls * * * "Lucy profited by the talents and virtues of her mother. Jan. 24, 1796, she was married to Joseph Smith, and received from her brother, Stephen Mack, and John Mudget, his partner, in business, a marriage present of $1,000. Her husband owned a good farm at Tunbridge, on which they settled. The fruits of this marriage were seven sons Alvin, Hyrum, Joseph, Samuel H., Ephraim, William and Don Carlos; and three daughters Sophronia, Catherine and Lucy. In 1802, Lucy Smith, with her husband, moved to Randolph, Vermont, where they opened a mercantile establishment. * * * After four years had elapsed, they removed to Manchester. In the alternate scenes of adversity and prosperity, the subject of religion was a constant theme with both Mr. and Mrs. Smith, though the former never subscribed to any particular sect. Both were occasionally favored of the Lord with dreams or visions of the approaching work which was about to commence on the earth, and which prepared them for the mission of their son Joseph, and the important part they were destined to take in it. Lucy Smith and several of her children joined the Presbyterian body, in the year 1819, but after Joseph had received the first visitation of the angel, and had communicated the matter to his parents, she manifested intense interest in it, and from that time her history became identified with the mission of her son. She and her husband were baptized in April, 1830, and she removed to Kirtland, Ohio, in 1831, with the first company of Saints, where she rejoined her husband who had previously gone there in company with his son Joseph * * * "Later Brother Smith removed his family to Quincy, Illinois, to which place most of the Saints had previously fled, and in common with them suffered the hardships and privations which characterized the extermination from Missouri. From Quincy the family removed to Commerce (Nauvoo), where Brother Smith, after blessing his children individually, closed his earthly career Sept. 4, 1840. Mother Smith was thus left a widow, worn out with toil and sorrow, her house having been filled with sick like a hospital from the time of the expulsion from Missouri. * * * "From the time of the removal of the Church to the Rocky Mountains until her death, which occurred in Nauvoo, Ill., May 5, 1855, she mostly resided with her youngest daughter, Lucy Miliken, excepting the last two years, when she resided with her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Emma Bidamon, widow of her son Joseph." We close this little memoir with the following firm testimony which should be read by every woman in this Society: Extract from President Brigham Young's Office Journal. Remarks of "Mother" Smith, given in the General Conference in Nauvoo, Oct. 8, 1845 Mother Lucy Smith, the aged and honored parent of Joseph Smith, having expressed a wish to say a few words to the congregation, she was invited upon the stand. She spoke at considerable length, and in an audible manner, so as to be heard by a large portion of the vast assembly. She commenced by saying that she was truly glad that the Lord had let her see so large a congregation. She had a great deal of advice to give, but Brother Brigham Young had done the errand, he had fixed it completely. There were comparatively few in the assembly who were acquainted with her family. She was the mother of eleven children, seven of whom were boys. She raised them in the fear and love of God, and never was there a more obedient family. She warned parents that they were accountable for their children's conduct advised them to give them; books and work to keep them from idleness warned all to be; full of love, goodness and kindness, and never to do in secret, what they would not do in the presence of millions. She wished to know of the congregation, whether they considered her a mother in Israel (upon which President B. Young said all who; consider Mother Smith as a mother in Israel, signify it by saying yes!— One universal "yes" rang throughout). She remarked, that it was just eighteen years since Joseph Smith the prophet had become acquainted with the contents of the plates and then, in; a concise manner, she related over the most prominent points in the early history of her family; their hardships, trials, privations, persecutions, sufferings, etc. some parts of which melted those; who heard her to tears, more especially the part relating to a scene in Missouri, when her beloved son Joseph was condemned to be shot in fifteen minutes, and she by prodigious efforts was enabled to press through the crowd to where he was, and to give him her hand but could not see his face he took her hand and; ; kissed it she said, let me hear your voice once more, my son he; ; said God bless you, my dear mother! She gave notice that she had written her history, and wished it printed before we leave this place. She then mentioned a discourse once delivered by Joseph, after his return from Washington, in which he said that "he had done all that could be done on earth to obtain justice for their wrongs but they were all, from the President to the Judge, ; determined not to grant justice. "But," said he, "keep good courage, these cases are recorded in heaven, and I am going to lay them before the highest court in heaven. "Little," said she "did I then think he was so soon to leave us, to take the case up himself. And don't you think this case is now being tried? I feel as though God was vexing this nation a little, here and there, and I feel that the Lord will let Brother Brigham take the people away. Here, in this city, lay my dead my husband and children; ; and if so be the rest of my children go with you, (and I would to God they may all go) they will not go without me and if I go, ; I want my bones brought back in case I die away, and deposited with my husband and children." , —
WITHIN THE LOCKET My Love, those severed tresses from thy brow. Lie as a frame around thy pictured face, And powerless the future years are now. The white of age upon that black to trace. That braided darkness on thy brow that's been. In days to come will tell the present truth. That severed hair shall keep its raven sheen To tell with that sweet face of thy rich youth. Upon this locket, tears I've often shed. Where face and tresses lie in purest gold. my lips hath fed. In kisses on that hair And on that face that time shall not make old O now that beauty here before me lies, To meet again my lips and feast mine eyes! ALFRED LAMBOURNE
Ma's New Year's Resolutions. By Elsie C. Carroll. It was New Year's Eve, as the front door closed after the "young folks" were off to the dance, Ma turned wearily to her own unattractive room. Pa had gone to a Board meeting and the younger boys, Jimmy and Fred, were at a barn party, while ten-year-old Maudie, the baby, had gone to sleep with Nellie Burke across the street. Ma suddenly realized that she was alone in the house, and its stillness seemed strange to her. She could scarcely remember ever having been alone since Mary Louise was born, twenty-four years ago. It struck her queerly, all at once, that she would really enjoy being alone once in a while,only tonight she was too tired to enjoy anything. The week of holidays just ending had been unusually hard for her. Perhaps it was because the children were all getting older and demanded more in the way of amusement. Before Christmas there had been the hurry and worry of getting the girls new dresses all done in time for the first party. There had been four to make this year, Maudie having insisted that she needed her 's just as much as the older girls did. Then there had been the Christmas dinner. Pa had invited a couple of men from the experiment farm over at G., and Frank had brought a college chum home from P., and Nettie's gentleman friend came down from Salt Lake, and, of course, there were Mary Louise and Ben and their babies. After that there had been house parties and skating parties and sleigh-riding picnic parties, until Ma felt like she had been baking cake and spreading sandwiches and stuffing chickens for an age. Today had been the most crowded day of all. There had been the Relief Society Charity Bazaar, in the morning to help arrange, the New Year's dinner to plan and partially prepare, and it had been her turn to see after sick old Granny Walker. Then, the new little Mrs. Gurdy, who had just moved to town and lived down the block, had sent for her to come and see if she thought her baby was going to cut a tooth. The girls had been extra "fussy" about their dresses. Nettie's sash had to be pressed the last minute before the party, and Mabel's hair wouldn't go right, and Lizzie discovered an ugly snag in her petticoat that had to be mended. Frank couldn't find his collar buttons, and Pa had lost a report he had to take to the Board meeting. But they were all gone now and she could go to bed and rest, if she couldn't sleep until they were all safely tucked in.
Ma switched on the light and turned to the old-fashioned bureau to undo her hair. Perhaps it was the unusualness of being alone, or it may have been Ma's utter weariness, or again it may have been the hovering spirit of the New Year pulsing with the breath of woman's rights, that turned Ma's thoughts into such an unfrequented channel. At any rate, no matter what the cause, Ma, for the first time in a quarter of a century, began thinking of herself. Curiously she studied the image looking back at her from the mirror. Why, it was an old care-worn woman, with weary eyes and lined features, dull, grey hair and drooping shoulders. It was her image and she — why, she was not yet forty-five years old. Ma stared and stared, and that peculiar kink, which had somehow got into her brain and directed her attention selfward, sent a million new thoughts speeding through her mind. In panoramic procession she saw the days and months and years she had toiled and sacrificed for others. It had been always for others her husband, her children, her neighbors. ; It had always been their health and comfort and pleasure she had considered, never her own. Why, she was a slave in deepest bondage! A great wave of self-pity surged over Ma and crimsoned her sallow cheeks. She had given her all, and what had she received in return? Her daughters' rooms were cosy and inviting hers was furnished with discarded pieces from the rest of the house. Her daughters wore dainty gowns, and their finger nails were pink and shiny, and their skin was soft and smooth and smelled of delicate cream, and their hair was thick and glossy. They had time to read magazines and to entertain their friends. A fierce envy of her own daughters took possession of Ma. She longed almost savagely for the things they possessed and she did not have. Why should she be a drudge, a slave for the rest of the family? At that moment the spirit of the New Order of Things hovered a little nearer and breathed rebellion into Ma's soul. At ten o'clock Jimmy and Fred returned from the barn party and were surprised at not finding Ma up waiting for them. Thinking she must have gone to Mary Louise's to see how the baby's ear-ache was, they went up stairs to bed. At eleven o'clock Pa returned from the Board meeting. He was a little put out at not finding Ma and his bowl of steaming milk waiting for him. "Must have been called in by some of the neighbors," Pa muttered a bit ill-humoredly, as he prepared for bed. At twelve o'clock the girls and Frank stole in and lunched cautiously in the pantry, congratulating themselves on their unusual success in not waking Ma. The next morning Pa awoke with a start. Why, it was broad daylight and he had not heard Ma get up. Then he remembered that he had not heard her come to bed either. Some of the neighbors must be pretty sick to keep her all night. Or maybe she was in the kitchen now getting breakfast. He usually heard her when she was starting the fire, if he didn't wake when she got up. He would go in and find out who was sick. But the kitchen was still and cold. Pa crossed to the range a little out of sorts to think that Ma would neglect her own family for the neighbors. He stopped still and stared. There on the teakettle was a letter — addressed to him in Ma's handwriting. Pa had scarcely seen that handwriting in twenty-five years, and a dull premonition crept over him. He tore open the envelope and took out a closely written sheet which he carried to the window the better to make it out. What could it mean? Where in the world could Ma be? Why had she written him a letter? Pa's features twitched with varying emotions as he read: "Dear John and Children: I've gone to the city to spend New Year's. I had a trip since I can remember; I ain't been to Salt ain't Lake City since I was married. Cousin Jane's invited me nearly every year, too, so I decided to go. I didn't have any money of my own, so I took fifteen dollars out of your safety box, John. I figured that I'd help to earn it if anybody had. I didn't have any decent clothes I ain't had, for years and years — so I took your grey silk, Nettie, and your brown suit and hat, Lizzie, and some gloves and a veil of yours, Mabel. I took your new suit case, Frank, and Jimmie's thermo bottle and Fred's last magazine. Maudie, I borrowed your mesh bag and a couple of handkerchiefs. "Maybe you'll all think I've lost my senses, but I ain't; I've just found them, and I made a New Year's resolution that I'd use them, after this. "Lots of love, and a happy New Year to you all, from Ma." Pa read the letter over for the third time before he was able to sense in the least what it all meant. Ma — gone to the city? why, what in the world! — did she want to —and taken money from the safety box —Why — he'd! ! have to miss the farmer's convention next week, may be— Why, Ma — do a thing to that like What — what — could mean! He it? read the letter again, and his own heart began to tell him what it meant. With trembling fingers, at last, he laid the sheet on the kitchen table and stood staring vacantly out of the window through a sort of mist. Before him flashed a panorama similar to the one Ma had seen the night before, and for the first time in his life, Pa, who had always considered himself a model husband, father and citizen, told himself he was a blind brute. The cords in his throat tightened and the mist before his eyes grew more dense. No wonder she had revolted! The only wonder was that she had stood it so long. At last he turned from the window and mechanically kindled the fire. How cold and empty the house seemed! And Ma what if something should happen to her and she should never come home He whisked out his handkerchief and blew his nose! (a man's method of trying to conceal emotion), as he resolved to catch the first train to the city to find her. He went to the foot of the stairs and called, "Nettie, Lizzie, — — — — Mabel, Frank, all of you come down, quick!" It was always Ma's voice that roused the sleepers in the morning, so that this unusual summons from Pa, together with a peculiar huskiness in his voice, brought a chorus of "What is it, Pa? What's the matter? Where's Ma?" and soon the whole family were gathered in the kitchen reading Ma's New Year's resolution with varying expressions of surprise and dismay. Be it said to their credit that not one member of that selfish family showed the least resentment. They had been blind, and now their eyes were suddenly opened, and they beheld Ma as a sacrificing angel and themselves as unworthy ingrates. They were all united in one thought How to make amends? : As they sat over a hurried breakfast of scorched toast, unsalted cereal, and leathery omelet, —the effort of untrained hands, —they discussed the situation freely. "I don't blame her a bit," declared Nettie. "The only wonder is that she hasn't done it long ago." — — "But but will she e-v-e-r come back?" — whimpered Maudie. "Of course, she'll come back. Pa's going after 'er," consoled Jim. "The question is, can we make it up to her for all our selfishness when she does come back, so she'll want to stay," put in Frank. "Well, we'll all be found —trying," assured Lizzie, with a catch in her voice. "It just makes me sick to think what we've been doing and didn't have sense enough to know it," added Mabel. "Well, she's going to have the best in this house from now on, have my way," Nettie resolved. "I've just been in her if I room. No wonder she ran away. There isn't one pretty thing in it —just old cast-offs. If we girls don't transform it before night, I'm mistaken." "And we're going to take turns getting up in the mornings and getting breakfast and take all the responsibility and worry of the house work off from her shoulders," put in Lizzie. "And we're going to chop all the wood and do all our chores without her nagging a bit, ain't we, Jim?" promised Fred. "And I'm not going to have all the kids in town come here every day and tease to have little dinners and dress up and things," agreed Maudie. "And I'm going to take her to all the good lectures and concerts and — baseball games," vowed Frank. "And I'm going to see that she has a bank account of her own and dresses and hats and things so she won't have to borrow next time she goes to the city," said Pa, who had sat an interested listener to all the New Year's resolutions being resolved. "And I'm going to see that the next time isn't twenty-five years from now either." He pushed back his chair and arose from the table. It was almost time for the train. "I hope, children, we'll all remember these New Year's resolutions we've just made," he added, as he put on his coat and hat. And what of Ma? She had boarded the evening train bravely enough, but within an hour her feelings were changed considerably. Slowly the realization came to her that all she had suffered had been through no one's fault but her own. Her family's blind selfishness had been fostered through her own training. She had assumed all the hardships and drudgery, when it had been her duty, for her own good, and the good of the other members of the family, to see that each member shared a part. They were simply as her training or lack of training had made them, and now she was inflicting upon them a punishment she herself deserved. What — would they think of her anyhow John and her children? Her lips began to quiver as she turned to the window and realized how fast she was being borne. away from them. She longed to fly back to tear that foolish letter into shreds; before anyone found it. She wanted to go up the old stairs and pass with noiseless step from room to room, tucking the covers about each dear sleeping form, and breathing a soft prayer above each head, as she had done through all the years then she; wanted to go back down and creep into her own warm bed beside John. Her John, who had given her such a good home, and who had always been such a kind father to their children, and who was such an indispensable member of the community. What would he think? Oh, what had possessed her to do so wild a thing? If only there were a way to get back, but she was miles away, and there was no returning train until the next morning. At last the engine puffed into Salt Lake City. Ma got off with the crowd. She felt dazed, and more wretched than ever. This was not the place she had visited so often in her girlhood? She had no idea which way to go to find Cousin Jane's. Besides, now she wouldn't have Cousin Jane know what she had done, for worlds. She stood for a few moments in the pushing crowd, sensing the keenest pangs of homesickness. Presently she noticed a hotel across the street. She would go there and get a room and take the early train back home. Most of the night Ma lay miserably awake, making New Year's resolutions, vastly different to the one which had brought her to the city. The next morning she hurried across to the station to wait for her train. She sat watching the hands of the station clock, counting the minutes until she would be home again, when someone paused beside her. She looked up. "John!" she cried unsteadily, as she rose to her feet. "Mary Louise!" he answered, taking both her hands and looking long into her face, then he went on "I've come to spend New Year's with you. Shall we go to Cousin Jane's for dinner, or would you rather go to some nice hotel, and to a good matinee afterwards?" She looked at him searchingly, for a moment, then she answered with a quavering voice: "I'd — — — rather go home, John, to the children!"
GIVE GOD THE GLORY. When the Twelve, or any other witnesses, stand before the congregations of the earth, and they preach in the power and demonstration of the Spirit of God and the people are astonished and say: — "That man has preached a powerful sermon" then let the man take care that he does not ascribe the glory to himself but be careful that he is humble and ascribe the praise and glory to God and the Lamb for it is by the power of the Holy Priesthood and the Holy Ghost that he has power thus to speak. "What art thou, O man, but dust? And from whence camest thou?" — Sayings of the Prophet from Vol. III, Church History.
Lord and Lady Aberdeen in Utah. The people of this State have had the pleasure of a call from Lord and Lady Aberdeen who are making a tour of the United States in the interest of their Irish philanthropies. Lord Aberdeen has been Vice-regent in Ireland for ten years or more, and Lady Aberdeen has organized several charitable and philanthropic societies for the betterment of the poorer classes in that unhappy country. She has erected a hospital for the consumptive children, which still lacks several thousand dollars to pay for the expense incurred. The war has interfered with their own sources of income, and with the usual charitable sources which they have drawn upon, for the building up of these philanthropic institutions. It is for this purpose, that they have undertaken this trip. Lady Aberdeen is President of the International Council of
THE MARQUIS OF ABERDEEN AND TEMAIR.
Women, and the General Board of the Relief Society felt it wise to co-operate with a committee of prominent women in looking after the lecture and entertainment of these distinguished visitors. They spoke in Provo on December 9th, and returned to Salt Lake on the 10th, where a reception was tendered them by the ladies of Salt Lake City, in the Hotel Utah. The Governor of the State, with his Staff, entertained the Aberdeens at dinner in the Alta Club, the evening of the 10th, and then adjourned to the Theatre, the whole party occupying the stalls for that occasion, witnessing the performance of Walter Whitesides' "In the Melting Pot." On Saturday, December 11th, an elegant luncheon was given for the titled visitors in the Hotel Utah, 250 ladies sitting down to the tables, which were decorated with shamrock and flowers. This was acknowledged to be the most brilliant affair ever given in the State by women. The menu cards were unique and beautiful, and contained a picture of Her Ladyship, with pictures of the Temple
THE MARCHIONESS ISHBEL ABERDEEN AND TEMAIR.
and the Hotel itself. They also contained the menu and the program of toasts and speeches, which were as follows Mrs. Heber M. Wells. Chairman, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Toastmistress. Address of Welcome Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells Response Lady Aberdeen Peace:Mrs. F. M. McHugh Women in Philanthropy Miss Kate Williams Club Women in Civic Affairs Mrs. W. F. Adams Future Possibilities Mrs. C. H. McMahon Executive Committee. Dr. Emmeline B. Wells, Honorary Chairman, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Chairman. Mrs. Heber M. Wells Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Mrs. Sol. Siegel Mrs. Amy B. Lyman Mrs. C. H. McMahon Mrs. C. W. Nibley Mrs. A. J. Gorham Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Thomas Kearns Mrs. F. S. Richards Mrs.W. F. Adams Mrs. Richard W. Young Miss Lucile Francke Mrs. George F. Stiehl Mrs. Alice Merrill Home. All who were present at the luncheon had their programs signed by the Countess herself, as a little souvenir of the occasion. The Countess was indisposed most of the time she was in the State. Elaborate preparations had been made in Logan and Ogden for receptions and banquets, which were attended by the Earl, but which the Countess herself was unable to reach. She suffered with the grippe, which has been so prevalent in this section, during the last three weeks. But she was delighted with the hospitality shown here, and remarked to the Chairman of the Committee, as she was leaving for Ogden, that Utah had really surpassed any other state in the quality of its hospitality, and in the splendid arrangements which had been made everywhere for their comfort and entertainment. She said she would never forget the women of this State, nor of this Church. She was particularly delighted with our honored president — Emmeline B. Wells — and paid her the charming compliment of initiating her into the Clan Gordon, by wrapping about her shoulders the tartan plaid of the clan. A word must be said concerning the labors of many of the ladies who are non-"Mormons," but who are prominent in club life in this City and State. Mrs. Heber M. Wells, Mrs. C. H. McMahon, Mrs. Sol. Siegel, Mrs. Gorham, Mrs. W. F. Adams, Mrs. Stiehl, Mrs. Simon Bamberger and Mrs. Root — all of these with other public-spirited women did yeoman service in their various activities. They were courtesy itself, and each piece of work which anyone of them undertook, was accomplished with dispatch and success. The ladies in Ogden, headed by Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott, had a most brilliant and successful arrangement there, which was somewhat marred by the illness and absence of the Countess herself, from the noon luncheon. The following introduction was made in Ogden by Mrs. Marriott, She said: "One might scan the pages of history in vain to find something exactly appropriate for this occasion. "In early centuries history fails to record acts of self-sacrifice, of benevolence, of charity, of sympathy. Deeds of prowess, of might and cruelty were the things deemed worthy of remembrance. As time glided by there was born to woman a humble little Babe who was destined to change and revolutionize the thoughts and ideas of the human race. "To feed the hungry, to clothe the naked, to minister to the distressed, to sympathize with the suffering and to love mankind became the keynote of the true followers of that Great Master. "Tonight we have with us a woman, who in every act of her life has exemplified the great pattern given to mankind; who has spent her best efforts in ministering to the sick and needy, in protecting the weak and the oppressed. Her crusades for pure milk supplies, playgrounds, child welfare fare centers and open markets are masterpieces of social work. One who has successfully entered the literary field, one who has been twice honored with the presidency of the International Council of Women and at present holds that position one of royal blood, royal, not alone; because of birth, but because she chose to become honored and loved by following the admonition of our Savior. 'He that is greatest among you shall be your servant.' "It is my pleasure to introduce the Marchioness of Aberdeen."
At Logan, Dr. Jensen and Dr. Widtsoe assisted by Mrs. Ball, and the ladies of the A. C. Club and public-spirited citizens gave a splendid account of themselves in both social and lecture functions. Only the Earl attended the Logan affair, but he was profuse in his expressions of pleasure at the reception he received, and the good people of Logan feel satisfied with the result of his visit. At Provo, Dr. George H. Brimhall, Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Mrs. Jos. B. Keeler, Mrs. E. E. Corfman, and Miss Alice Reynolds provided a brilliant and beautiful entertainment and reception at the home of Hon. Jesse Knight, followed by a dinner, with toasts and speeches, which really won extravagant admiration from the visiting guests. We give here the charming introduction by Mrs. Dusenberry: A few evenings ago, had you passed a college a few squares north, you might have seen a very anxious-looking woman sitting in a library facing numerous tiers of shelves crowded with books. And had you looked closer, you might have detected a grave look of concern, when the contents of Shakespeare were examined and rejected when the volumes of Emerson and Tennyson were re-; moved, examined and cast aside when the philosophy and poetry; of Goethe and Dante gave no satisfaction. And then came a whispered exclamation: "I wonder if there was anything ever written perfectly proper and appropriate for one to say at so important a time." Stooping she picks up a little worn volume, which unnoticed had fallen to the floor, and you hear her read: "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of one of these, ye do it unto me." And then comes the simple, beautiful story of healing the sick; helping the poor; teaching the multitude to pray, and above all to love one another and then with a far away look on; her face, in memory she crosses the ocean, finds herself among thousands of noted women, seated in a great auditorium in the city of Berlin. Standing before her she sees a tall, stately, beautiful woman, beautiful because every line in her face says to you, "Universal human service." Sitting near, someone whispers. "Look the Countess. The President of the International Council! of Women." After following a presidential address, charming in its simplicity, with a kindly admonition here, a note of intense sympathy there, a little warning, some advice, all animated with the soul of love, you hear her say in conclusion:"I leave this thought. Happy is the mother whose daughter is her best friend. Blessed is the wife who can say to her son, I hope you will be as good as your father. And after all, the greatest thing in the world is love." Tonight it is my pleasure to introduce one of royal blood, not royal alone because of birth, but because she heals the sick, she helps the poor, she teaches the multitude to pray, and above all she teaches humanity to love one another. The Marchioness of Aberdeen.
All in all, we have fulfilled, in part, the expectations that the nobles of the earth should come up to Zion to learn of her ways, and we feel that great credit is due to all who in any way contributed to this splendid affair.
Cobwebs. "Good morning, Kate, I've just been calling On Lucile Hart, across the way She's the kindest little woman, Bright and cheery as the May; But oh, what poor housekeeping! Would you believe it, dear, I counted nine big cobwebs!" As sure as I am here 'Twas a neighbor stopped to gossip, And I feared the awful nine Would be few and quite forgotten After Bessie counted mine. But the cobwebs set me thinking Of the little wife Lucile, Of the work that daily calls her, Of the burdens she must feel There are seven little children. Each with a baby's right To her care, her love, her training And she gives it day and night To her husband she is offering A companionship that's true, With smile and help and comfort Such as come but to the few To her neighbors, her example Is a source of pure delight When, instead of hunting cobwebs. They are seeking truth and right To the world Lucile gives blessing. That the world will never know. In the hope and faith that follow Where her words of comfort go. "Bessie, don't be counting cobwebs Why, when you are laid to rest. Gossips will be searching corners For the things that please them best. If it's cobwebs, they will find them. If it's virtues sweet and rare, That a dearest friend would mention, They will find such virtues there, You're a thrifty little housewife. But you labor quite in vain. If, with all your anxious sweeping. Cobwebs gather on your brain." ANNIE D. S. PALMER.
The Prince of Ur By Homespun. The Princess Sarai was once more safe in the confines of her own apartments. But even her huge eunuch feared for her, for he, standing in the shadows of the audience hall, had seen the look given to his mistress by the greedy eyes of the wicked Nimrod. There was no time now to dwell upon the death, which was very surely closing in upon the three Cushite damsels the eunuch's own mistress was threatened by far worse dangers. Her loving Milcah met her at the latticed door and tried to calm her trembling excitement. "Asaph, Milcah, Zul, come quickly!" cried Sarai, her voice harsh with the vibration of her fears, "Come, bind my hair, put it away from sight, wrap the dark kerchief about my brows, so — down to my very eyes robe me in my black tunic, cover up; my face with the corner of my robe, thus and thus. Oh, why have I been cursed with this fatal beauty With it I thought to! win the favor of the king, that I might save my poor black maidens, and it has only brought to me the hated favor of a — wicked man. Take these jewels, hide them deep put away my — — — — whimples all these veils of white get thee ready I am no — — longer safe the king has looked upon me ah woe is me! The distracted girls about her calmed her as best they could. But they—better even than their mistress — knew the gravity of her peril. "Where is my old nurse? Bring her, Milcah, bring her. Milcah, come, give me comfort. — Pray for succor— oh, why did mine own mother die, and I so young and lonely? Why did she leave me thus desolate?" The damsel was in a very panic of fear. All this time the girl was hastily making her preparations for sudden flight. She was too unnerved to make any plans of escape, but escape she felt was her only safety. Perhaps the villages of Terah or some distant sheepfold of the plains or hills might offer safe asylum. But where was father Terah and — — where was her kinsman Abram for it was to his wisdom, his courage, that she looked for deliverance at this time. She was soon shorn of her lovely trappings, and soon robed in the coarse and dark wrappings which she wore when out in the villages and fields on her frequent errands of mercy to the servants and shepherds and thus she stood with wildly beating heart, waiting for some message from Abram — her dear and wise kinsman — the protector of her childhood, the secret ideal of her maturer years, the hope of her deeply spiritual nature in her time of trial and despair. What hindered his coming? Oh, where could he be? She stood at her lattice work, and her delicate fingers clinched their fine tracery with nervous twinings. "Where dost thou linger?" she whispered, half aloud. "Where art thou, Abram? I have not troubled thee with my affection I have been very cold and prudent — even as thou hast been with me. I have not sent thee loving messages in thy long absences, but thou hast never left me in my time of peril, even when my own lips or eyes have brought me into trouble thou — hast ever been my friend — my kind protector Abram." — The mumblings and mutterings of her well-founded fears almost reached the ears of her crouching attendants. The very air of the great palace was surcharged with quivering excitement. A man was crossing the inner courtyard of the women's apartments. " 'Tis Lot, my brother Lot. Here, Dazan, bring him quickly to me. He at least will speak the truth." With swift bounds, the eunuch fled after the retreating form of the warrior, and in a few moments Lot stood within the audience chamber of the Princess Sarai. The formal oriental greeting between sister and brother over, Sarai turned to Lot anxiously "What of Abram?" she cried, with palpitating breath. "Abram? He is in council with the chiefs and shepherd kings. His own life has been forfeited, by his double attack upon the person of the king. Even father Terah sees the gravity of our situation. Nimrod seeks his life tonight, and he may perchance be offered on the same altar which will be dedicated with the blood of thy three maidens." —— "Ah!" her cry ran shuddering along the walls of the inner court "Abram!" "He dies unless some miracle of deliverance takes place. Nimrod has invited him to assist in dedicating the sacred altar to Elkanah at midnight. Abram's refusal will be his own legal death sentence. Nimrod will wear Father Adam's sacred robe of the priesthood, at this ceremony, and Abram as a priest cannot be disobedient. The little child of Azzi-jaami, which Abram has covered in his bosom ever since his return is also doomed to die," added Lot. "The little child. Oh! horror upon horror! What are we coming to? Where is our father Terah? What says he to all this reeking carnage?" "He is a soldier first: his country comes first to him: his religion and his family come after these. Yet methinks both father Terah and myself see things tonight with new eyes." "But my maids? My little dark-brown maids? They were so good, so obedient, so pure. And the little child? Who could wish him harm?" "None but Nimrod. He hath decreed that everything that Abram loves shall die with him. He himself will put Abram to the fire, if he refuses to use the knife of sacrifice upon the child and your three maid-servants. And should Abram pass through the fire, then he must be offered on the same holy and bloody altar that is to be consecrated with the body of the little child. Such is Nimrod's bold decree." "And Terah? What says he?" "Our father sits and glowers in awful woe. His very vitals are gnawing him to tear him loose from his life-long allegiance to this vile and wicked king. Oh, that he would flee, and thus protect his life and those of us who may be left after this slaughter of the innocents." "And what of Sarai?" The soldier looked at her. Her shining beauty was veiled in swathed clothes of blackened hue, and only the smoldering glory of her uplifted eyes shone full upon him. He sighed, as he realized how perfect was his sister's beauty and how few could forget that radiant gaze. "And you, my princess? Yes, and what of Irit, the little jade, and what of Ischa and Milcah? Irit loves a bauble better than she loves her food. And Milcah? And all your maids?" "Were you in the hall?" asked the distracted princess, too covered with modest shame to speak of her own peril, and now too concerned over Abram to remember her own danger. "Yes, I was there, my sister. When Nimrod's fiery gaze caught the dusky rays of thy bright eyes and gleaming hair, I knew that thou wouldst be in deadly peril this night under this roof, although it is our father's roof. Nimrod knows no law but his own desires." "I know, oh, I know. But Abram, what of him? shut — up in the council halls, and in danger for his own life." "My sister, listen to a gruff soldier. I cannot phrase my words with Mardan's graceful skill." Sarai cried out bitterly "Speak not of that traitor to me." "Even so. I am a poor handler of tongue and speech. Yet I am sure that thou art in far greater danger than our cousin Abram. His life may pay the forfeit of his courage and prowess — even in his own palace walls. But you have more than life to lose." He spoke with stern brevity and plainness. The princess covered up her face with the edge of her dark mantle and murmured: "The cross is heavy on me. I bear it day by day." "Nay, princess, I chided not, but warned. And in that warning, I would fain find some way to free thee from thy potent danger. But I lack in Abram's wisdom and resourcefulness." — "Then fly. Seek out Abram betray to him his own danger. No matter about me — 'tis Abram that is in most danger. Nimrod hates him and would destroy him this very night. Fly!" "Why not speak of thine own danger? Fear not, my sister, I may not think quickly, nor find ways to spring aside from coming danger, but let me tell you this that every man in all: this household of Terah stands upon his guard this night before thy latticed window. Abram knows far better than I can tell or see, the danger that your highness rests in at this very moment. But fear not. We would give life like water to shield you or any of our precious helpless women from harm or danger." "Has Abram spoken of flight?" "Ah, that he has." And Lot gathered his slow wits together to rehearse to Sarai all that Abram devised while fleeing from her door and sending out alarms to all the neighboring chiefs. "I thought that Abram would not forget the grave necessity of such a scheme." Even as they spoke, a swift messenger approached, saluted Lot, and told him he was wanted in his father's private council chamber. At the same moment, he handed to the princess a tablet, still damp and fresh from the hand that had graven upon it the message. Sarai took the small missive, and quickly slid the enclosing envelope away from the inner tablet, and as she read the message engraven thereon, she said "Go, Lot! Abram hath need of thee. He charges me to call my maidens, and all the women of the palace together" — she was reading as she spoke "and give them full warning of our expected journey before the morning breaks upon the valley of the Euphrates — mothers, wives, daughters, maidens, servants and slaves — all are to have a choice. But Irit —" and — here the eyes of the princess opened wide "What of Irit?" asked Lot, anxiously. "Abram says that Irit must be cherished very tenderly by me, and kept by my own person each moment of this night. Not for worlds am I to let her leave me, nor shall I fail to win her constant regard and trust. Do you hear? Abram is more anxious over Irit than over Sarai?" "Nay, princess," Lot said, slowly. "thou dost mis-read the message. I see some trace of anxious doubt in Abram's words of Irit. I think he has no occasion." But Sarai took the words of Abram to mean a very different thing. Sarai took her rapid way to the inner apartments of women of the household. Activity marked the usual quiet and placid afternoon hours. No one within had as yet heard of the happenings in the audience hall, but all were gaily discussing the midnight ceremonies which were to dedicate and consecrate the majestic temple of Ur, so recently completed, and now rearing itself aloft in the far end of the city. The walls of delicate pale blue and yellow enameled bricks gave forth a soft glow under the light of the numberless oil-vessels or lamps, as they stood upon every projection and in dim recesses, while the cabarets scattered about, held great silver vases full of perfumed oils that burned with clear radiance. The walls were here and there hidden by exquisite draperies of embroidered rugs and hangings, many of them rich with the cunningly wrought stories of the wars and loves of generations of princes and queenly maidens. Silver vases stood about, filled with the tropic blooms of the river gardens, while low divans banked themselves about the walls on which reclined the ladies of the household. Here were mothers, daughters, and distant or near female relatives of this great household, all now busy with the gossip of the coming midnight festivals. One of the ladies twanged a small harp, while others played games of dominoes, or other games of chance. Confections, delicate rich wines, dates, fruits, and dainty sweet-meats crowded the low tables. Sarai stood in amazement at the threshold of this long hall. For gathered in a group on the upper platform of the room stood Terah's twelve small idols, borrowed from the gardens, each in all its hideousness wreathed in flowers and with burning incense filling every crevice of the low-ceiled room. "What means this idolatry?" asked the princess, with quivering lips. One of the older women of the household looked up serenely and replied. "It means, my princess, that we are propitiating the gods of Nimrod lest his displeasure should fall upon some member of our household." "How can you do such things? You all know how wicked such things are." "Tush daughter of this house. I was living and worshiping! god before thy breath smote against the walls of thy mother's bedchamber. And I have learned long ago that all men are not bad who worship differently from ourselves nor are the sons; and daughters of Eber and Noah worse than ourselves. Leave us, Sarai." And the unhappy princess returned to her own chambers hopeless and helpless. Nimrod sat heavily brooding in his private apartments. His host had provided him with every luxury, viands of the richest and most elaborate wines and dates with rich confections, crowned the golden tables which were set in the outer salon. His chamber looked out upon the lovely courtyard of palms below. Slaves from the markets of Ur, priestesses from the Ziggurat moved about the perfumed interior with slow and velvety footsteps. But Nimrod saw none of them. His eyes were fixed upon the huge toes of his leathern sandals, and his thoughts were whirling round — and round in two squirrel-like ideas "Abram, the man is alive, when I killed thousands of children to slay Abram the infant." And to it was added, "Sarai, the Daughter of the Sun, is under this roof." These two deep impressions would revolve around and around in the crafty mind till suddenly some explosion of the will would clear a path for his vengeful feet to follow that would be as plain as the raised street which led from the palace of Terah to the ziggurat temple. "Abram — Sarai." Just outside his low windows the court musicians were humming and striking their weird and soft melodies, for like most colossal men, he liked all his luxury to be of the finest and most delicate elements possible. — "Your highness, my lord " began his chamberlain warily. — "What now " roared his master angrily. The man jumped as if a javelin had been thrust through his back, but speech was necessary at this moment, so he continued with cringing tones and attitude "Lord of the Universe, king of kings, greatest of all created men, be not displeased with thy slave. But the high priest of the Ziggurat attends upon your majesty to enquire if thou wouldst condescend to lend the light of thy countenance to the evening ceremonies at the temple of Mylitta. It is told him that numerous of the fair young daughters of Ur go there this night to sit — upon the Sacred Pavement for the first time and they have — — waited may it please your most gracious majesty these many moons, for this blessed day and time when the great god Nimrod Bilu-Nipru, would be here in his own glorious person to glorify and illumine the auspicious ceremony." "Waited for me, have they? Well, most of them will wait in vain. Am I a god? Yea, in majesty and prowess; but the clods of nature still hang heavily upon me as the years creep along." He still sat gloomily. Suddenly his features lighted up with joy. "Call to me the prince of Ur — Terah — and my son Mardan. Call them at once, I say. Quick, give thy feet wings. The Sacred Pavement tonight ha, my Princess of the Sun-god, you may not escape me now. Ha, ha, rest easy, my own soul have — I not said that I am a wonder and a marvel? Who can compare with me in all the earth? None, none! For was it not said by my grandfather Ham that I should be the mightiest hunter in all the earth? And that nations so far in the womb of time that their features could not be determined for millenniums should know me and should proclaim my name and my prowess when this earth is old and just ready for dissolution? Ha, ha, what shall I fear? — — Naught but death and death here, slaves, call me my augurers. Is not this the night before the Sabbath? And even I the king can not cast mine augurs tomorrow. Most miserable fool that I was to perpetuate so gross a superstition upon my people. But even I must obey mine own laws. So come ah, here thou art — Elgi, come — cast thine augurs, and see to it that they are bright, or I will have thy head." At that moment, the heralds cried aloud the names of the Prince Terah, and Mardan. "Room, I say, room for my host," cried the king lustily "and my own mouthy weakling of a courtier son Mardan. Come hither." "Shall we not await a better time," asked Terah, who saw the crowd of hastily summoned court priests arranging their augurs in their tripods and vessels. "Nay, nay, these sooth-sayers can continue their devotions in the outer halls. I have but a short message to deliver into thy privileged ears. Stand thou close my dear and favored kinsman — — — Terah. Have I not say now have I not been thy friend? Have I not made thee great in the earth? Second only to mine own place and glory dost thou not shine forth? Have I not kept my word pledged to thee when we were in thy first campaign old it was to me — — even then that swift onrush of arrowed men — — but new and very terrible to thee? Say have I not kept thine and my pledge? Have I interfered with thee?" !" "Nay, my lord the king, thou hast been true to thy word — "Ha, ha thou sayest truly. For if all the sins and wrongs; of Nimrod were laid up against his door, that of treachery to his own plighted word would not be found therein." "Speak not of sins, O gracious and holy one," said Mardan softly, as he sat caressing the king's feet. "Thou art without sin. Thy character hast been purged and purified by thy long service to God and man till thou hast come out of the furnace of affliction bright as gold seven times from the furnace pots. Thou art immortal as the gods!" Thus spoke Mardan, and his light brown eyes melted with the swift hypocritical tears and overflowed into his gorgeous abaya. His white hands clasped themselves before his breast in an attitude of eloquence. Nimrod looked piercingly at the effeminate youth. "What art thou? Spawn of a mighty father and a mother conceived in sin? I know thy kind. And although I pay great sums to have such things as thou sayest carved on my statues and painted on my walls, when I am under the roof of Terah's house I look for the bitter and wholesome truth even from my own son." Mardan colored to the roots of his hair. He had spent many weary hours in the schools of Ur and had been down to Nippur to further qualify himself in the luxurious art of oratory and courtiership. And now that so excellent a chance to use that pliant tool had presented itself, he was so clumsy and awkward — that even the old and flattery-hardened king his father — could see how raw and crude were his methods. Faugh he hated him-! self, the king, and above all, he hated his shamed kinsman Terah who had witnessed his second humiliation that day. "Let us to business," cried the king, turning his back rudely on Mardan. "Prince, I have but this moment accepted the gracious call from my priesthood at the temple to go down to the Pavilion of Mylitta, for this night's gorgeous offerings, and shall remain there resting over the Sabbath day. I am told that there are many choice and high-born damsels of this city who have waited impatiently for this night and the honor of my presence and favor. Say, hast thou not daughters in this house of thine?'" Terah would have willingly had his tongue torn from its roots, rather than answer that question to the king. But the piercing gaze of his old kinsman and ruler was upon him, and he knew the fire and flame which would leap forth at the least hesitation or suppression from him. And if he himself would hide portions of the truth, there was Mardan. What of Mardan? Traitor, ingrate, apostate? Ah, Terah's load was very heavy on his heart. But speak he must. But how? What should he say? Tell the names of those choice and beautiful daughters of his — household? Sarai she was already in mortal danger from this — same besotted king. Milcah, Iscah, Irit his blossoms of pure and perfect womanhood. What should he say? His mind worked quickly with the suddenness of his predicament and its need. He was the arbiter of his children's destinies, so long as they remained ever so loosely under the patriarchal order of the priesthood. — Terah spoke not from a thought taken, but from one given from some source he knew not where. "Sarai is, as you know, my lord, a princess royal of the house of Noah. She is beyond my jurisdiction, except as she may ask and receive my counsel. She stands, by virtue of the death of my wives and their mothers, as the supreme priestess in this household. Her hand has been sought by a dozen kings and potentates but she would be a sorry mate to one whom she hated or; despised. — She is her own mistress. Milcah the little grey dove of the courts of Terah —she, I have betrothed to her kinsman Nahor, and their nuptials are about to be celebrated this very night. So also with Irit, who is likewise to be given to my son, Lot, this very night. They have all but been awaiting my return. The marriages will be solemnized with due ceremony. Therefore, your majesty sees how impossible it will be to comply with your implied invitation." "Thy tongue runs away with thy wisdom. I said nothing about thy daughters going to Mylitta's Pavilion. But I shall not forget thy apparent wish to put an insult upon thy king — remember that Where is thy son Abram? I would have speech! with him?'" "He is at this moment engaged in his priestly duties in our own Holy of Holies. It would be impossible for him to leave the altar at this time, your majesty. You know as well as I the sacred nature of those ceremonies." "Again dost thou offer a refusal for thy guest and thy king? So thou sayest that Abram officiates at an altar? Hast thou ordained him to the priesthood? Does he wear the sacred robes?" "He is, your majesty, a most worthy and faithful bearer of the sacred priesthoods, which privilege he sought for with prayers and fastings, for some years of his youth before I learned of his devotion to the ancient forms of our common religion. So that, when he sought me for the conferring of the rights and offices of that sacred order, I could not gainsay him the privilege, but sent him to Salem to be ordained by Shem. And there he hath remained for thirty years. Since that day, I have been away with thee so much of the time that I have left the sacrifices and the ordinances entirely undone. On proper occasions Abram returns, and then he also wears the sacred robes of the royal priesthood as is his right." "Hum —hum—" mused the king slowly. His mind worked slowly, but his decisions were always reached with lightning speed. The men before him waited with bated breath. "It is well! Mardan, go you into the ante-chamber and — bring to me the latest news of my augurs for tomorrow is to be one of the greatest days of my whole life. And thou, Terah, carry to thy" priestly son Abram this message: Tomorrow night at the rise of the midnight sun, I shall expect him to be present at the altar of Elkanah. there to offer up the human and glorious sacrifice which shall drench the newly prepared altar, for which thou didst thyself— or thy workmen didst for thee— cast the patterns. There we shall ourselves await in full robes the coming of thy son Abram. and there he shall prove to all Chaldea his loyalty to God, his priesthood and his country. Nay, let me put them again in their order to thee: To the god of Chaldea-Bilu-Nipru, then to his priesthood, and finally to his country. Go, my worthy servant and host. Thine audience is over." Chuckling and chortling with unholy glee, Nimrod saw his erstwhile companion in arms depart with bowed head and crushed mien. "I'll teach thee Abram — — and thee Terah and thee Sarai. Sarai, ah, ah —Mardan, come hither, come hither quickly." Mardan flew from the outer halls to throw himself at the huge feet of his royal father, and with fawning kisses, he covered the sandals of his master with assumed devotion. "Thou young asp, tell me What power hast thou in this: household? Canst thou procure me a favor, the value of which is so great to me that thou shalt become my supreme heir, and shalt wear my own signet for all time." Mardan arose, and with his arms extended, he said proudly. —"Speak, O thou most glorious one, and thy words shall be obeyed, though in process thereof, it raze this palace to the ground." "Thou art too mouthy, my young brattling. But hist Come! hither. Canst thou devise some scheme whereby the young and beautiful princess Sarai can be brought to the Pavilion of Mylitta this night, after the shades of evening have fallen? I shall pass all the hours of the morrow's Sabbath in the Temple precincts. But this night is mine own, and I shall have much joy if I can with my royal person receive and initiate the beauteous Sarai into the mysteries of Mylitta's worship." Mardan colored and bit his lip. But after a moment's thought, he said, with more decision and less pomposity: "My lord is the lord of this whole earth. And if his wishes are expressed, it is the duty of his loyal subjects to see that they are obeyed. I know not just how this may be done, but I crave thee to lend me thine own signet, that whatever I shall ask of thine officers and soldiers shall be obeyed implicitly. For mine own retinue, I shall not require it." The youth looked fixedly at the king, and then with three swift and subtle motions he touched his head, his breast and his knee. With as quick response, his father lifted his left hand upward and then swung his right till they were above his head. Mardan turned without a word and swiftly glided out of the royal presence. "Apostate to the core. In league with witchcrafts and black arts, practiced by the sons of mine own father Cush. What black shadows may not hang over mine own heavens with such a reptile crawling beneath its horizon." Thus mused the king, as Mardan glided away. Nimrod now gave the signal for his magicians and priests to enter, and together they bent in anxious scrutiny over the various auguries and portents that had been cast while the king was busy otherwise. "Shadows, shadows, I see them, my wizards, thou canst not hide them from my gaze. The vampire has wings for a thousand tombs before the morning light may ring its crimson belts on the summit of the Ziggurat." "Nay, your majesty. These are but the portents of the great and last human sacrifice which thou hast deigned to permit to dedicate this thy latest Ziggurat. It is meet that the gods should thus signify their great acceptance of thy offering." "True, true, thou mayest be right. I will not wish it otherwise. But was it not said by father Ham that Nimrod would be the greatest son he ever sired? Then who can dim that glory? Send my steward of the robes. I shall be clothed this night in my royal garments and robes of the priesthood, given to me by father Cush, and from him obtained from father Ham through my grandfather Noah, just after they had left the ark. Men may have other robes, but it is Nimrod who owns and wears the very robe given to father Adam when he was driven out from the gardens of Paradise. Here, quickly, robe me in these invincible garments. For no power of heaven or earth shall resist their awful symbolism. The birds of the air, the beasts of the field, the — men of this puny earth and why not the beauteous Sarai pay — homage without stint to him who wears this most holy and mystic robe!" The Pavement of Mylitta— the Ziggurat, the Sabbath These! were the thoughts that flung themselves round and round in the monarch's slow brain, and in and out, like tiny mice, blinked and fluttered two names — — — — Abram Sarai Abram and Sarai heaven — — hell — — — — death life and beauty Abram Sarai what engines of power center in the brains of men! Power for good or power for evil! — But that power how vast, how incomprehensible, only God Himself may tell. (to be continued.)
Mental Hygiene for Women Past Fifty. The twenty-five years, or more, which reach out beyond the fifty-year mark for the woman of usual habits of health, should be years of reasonable occupation for the hands, of pleasant reflections to the mind, and of long hours of sleep and rest in the quiet chamber, which should be her own. Modern methods do not permit grandmother, always, to have this old-fashioned passing on of her active life. Instead of being allowed to work only according to her strength, she is the most over-worked woman in the community. Her strength has waned, but her ambition has not yet passed, and she thinks she can do a great deal more than she can. Consequently, she is generally over-burdened, and is always attempting to do things which her strength will not permit. The grandmothers who read this article should take themselves in — hand, and decide that they and not others —shall direct the last twenty-five years of their lives. What is the usual fear of the woman of fifty and past? Apoplexy, paralysis, and nervous collapse. These three are grim goblins and they wonder which of the three goblins will get them. Let such women remember that in the first place, if they will control their appetite, and eat reasonably — eating only needed quantities and those things that agree — apoplexy and paralysis are not likely to occur to them. Nervous collapse is for people who spend a great deal of time thinking about themselves. The most dangerous enemies to our peace of mind are self-pity, self-righteousness, and self-indulgence. Whenever you are inclined to have a crying spell, because you are not properly appreciated, forget yourself, and go out and find others who are not so well situated as you are. Minister to them, and give to them of your tenderest sympathy, and see if your own troubles do not fly away so quickly, you will forget you ever had them. Fear is a very deadly companion, and yet it haunts so many sensitive women, that it becomes almost necessary to treat it as a disease. Then, we would say, forget your fear put it far from you by filling your mind with other and happier thoughts. Loneliness is another form of suffering for those who have reached the age of fifty and past, and yet, in this Church, there is very little necessity for any woman — no matter what her age or condition, to be lonely. Relief Society and Temple work provides women with so much to hear, so much to contribute to the happiness of others, that no Latter-day Saint woman has opportunity or time for loneliness. No one should be idle. Idleness begets many sins and much suffering of body and mind, and, in fact, it makes its inroad into the very spirit itself. Occupation, both pleasant and unpleasant — occupation for we never reach a point when discipline of the spirit is not wholesome and good for us — should be provided for every woman. See that you prepare for yourselves, a line of daily labor which shall be possible for you, or at least that shall be profitable for those about you. Do not overwork yourselves. Watch for the danger signal and when you find that you are overtaxing; your physical or mental strength, stop, look, listen. And yet, in this stopping, looking, and listening, do not always be watching for signs of break-down, nor signs of disease in yourselves. Physicians tell us that when we watch for a certain disease, it is pretty apt to show itself in our body. A healthy denial of worry, or of any evil, is about the best way to get rid of it. It is almost useless to say to women "Don't worry," and "Don't be anxious." But, at least, worry as little as possible, and be as little anxious as you may. If you do not put helpful, beautiful, and building-up thoughts in your mind, the other power will see that your mind is well-filled with his own particular brand of reflection. "An idle brain is the devil's workshop." Blessed is the woman who has acquired the habit of reading in early life. When she reaches the age of fifty, and goes beyond, she is then equipped with the best and pleasantest mode of spending her spare time. Cultivate the habit of reading read light literature, if you cannot read the more serious, but spend some time each day in reading the scriptures. Association with the — great and good of this world both in the Scriptures, and in good — books will give you a broad outlook upon life, sympathy and understanding of all ages, and peoples of the world, and will prepare and qualify you for up-to-date companionship with those you love. Grandmother should have quiet sleeping quarters. It is neither wise nor healthy to have little children sleep with grandmother. She should have a chance in the morning to lie and rest, if she chooses;and yet, on the other hand, if she likes to get up early, let her do so, and give her some little work in the garden, or some little chore about the house, that will be equal to her strength, and which will employ and occupy her to her own delight and profit. Grandmothers should not interfere with the raising of their children's children. The methods of their children, in raising their families, may not be so good as grandmothers but at least, ; children should be allowed to carry out their own ideas. Learn to shut your eyes, and your ears, to everything but that which concerns yourself. Above all things, avoid self-pity. Never feel that you are neglected and abused. Avoid interference with anybody's affairs but your own and; learn to occupy your own mind with healthy, pure, upright thoughts. Try all the time to build up righteousness and not to tear down people. Relief Society and Temple work provides the — — women of this Church past the age of fifty with the very best activity that can possibly be conceived of. No woman need be idle,nor unhappy no woman need be lonely, who lives anywhere; near a Temple district, or who is within the radius of the Relief Society. You lose your troubles in finding others' you lose your; self in finding others." Let us close with the inspired hygiene instructions found in Section 88, of the Doctrine and Covenants "See that ye love one another cease to be covetous learn to; ; impart one to another, as the gospel requires cease to be idle; cease to be unclean cease to find fault one with another cease to; ; sleep longer than is needful. Retire to thy bed early, that you may not be weary arise early that your bodies and your minds; may be invigorated. And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bonds of charity as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and peace." This paragraph contains the germs of every truth taught by physicians, Christian Scientists and philosophers. Engrave it on your memories and be healed. The superintendent of police in Philadelphia has issued orders that there must be no more bare legs in theatrical entertainments. Here are the orders in full, and the Salt Lake authorities would do well to "make note on:" "The act of April 13, 1911, makes it unlawful for any person to give or participate in, or for the owners of any building to permit any sacrilegious, obscene or indecent performances. The following are immoral and indecent "1 —The appearance on the stage of any theater of a female performer in nude or semi-nude condition, with the body or lower limbs naked. — "2 The exhibition of any picture of a female performer showing the performer in a suggestive pose. — "3 The portrayal of a dope fiend. — "4 Using on the stage of any indecent, profane, or immoral language, joke or story. "5 The portrayal of any degenerate,"
The Bride's Mother. Nabby Howe. She stood like a half-blown rose, her golden brown hair, her liquid brown eyes, and her shell pink cheeks rising from her velvet white neck like a flower upon its stem. Her white-slippered feet peeped in and out of the filmy laces of her gown, as she moved restlessly, while her mother kneeled before her, adjusting her dress with quick and tasteful fingers. "You know, Mother, I shall never love anybody just like I love you." The mother looked up into the exquisite face upon her, and smiled with misty eyes. "Yes, Mother," went on the tender, laughing voice, "you are the only mother I shall ever have, and I think you are my onliest only." In a few moments, the bride and her mother were released from their pretty toil, and the mother said to her restless daughter, "Sit down, Flora: there is a full hour before your guests will arrive, and I have a story to tell you." Moved at once by the solemn thrill in her mother's voice, the restless girl fluttered down, and nestling on the couch beside her mother, she said seriously, "Is it a happy, story, Mother, for you know I want to be happy today it is my wedding day." ; "Dear child," replied her mother, "it is a story that will make you happy all the days of your life, if you will heed its moral "You are now a young lady, but before you came to this earth I had a very remarkable and stirring experience. I had borne eight children, and I felt convinced that I had done my duty by society and by my children and so I told your father that I should; have no more children. Your father is a very wise man, and when I announced my decision, he made no comment other than to look at me with that piercing glance which, as you know, cuts clear through to the heart. However, I was determined, and although I took no means of prevention, except the very natural and legitimate one — if indeed it is ever natural or legitimate for — women to refuse to have children at least I adopted no criminal methods to carry out my purpose. "Three years from that time, the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated I was chosen as a worker, you know and at one of the; ; first dedicatory services, I met a brother with whom I had been acquainted all my life, but who knew nothing of our family lives, for he had lived in a distant town for a number of years. He came up to me, and, looking straight into my face, said, 'We have had the word of the Lord this morning, Sister.' " 'Oh,' I replied, 'don't you always get the word of the Lord when you are in the presence of the President of the Church?" " 'Yes,' said he, 'but the word of the Lord came this time to you.' " 'What was it,' I asked. "And looking me straight in the eye, he replied 'Any woman: who refuses to have children for her husband shall be cut off, and will wither and die like a broken twig.' "The shock of this announcement was very severe, and I said to myself, 'That is surely the word of the Lord to me.' "A few nights after this, I dreamed that I went over on the Other Side. I saw a personage approaching, with two little boys — one on each side of the angel. I knew them instantly, it seemed, and exclaimed, 'Oh, those are my little boys.' " 'Yes,' replied the angel, 'they would have been, but you refused to have them.' "I must have them,' I replied; 'I am ready to have them now.' " 'No,' he answered, 'you will never have these little boys.' "And now, my darling, you and your little Sister Naomi were born after that time, and no mother welcomed a child more eagerly than I welcomed you. "I tell you this, as a warning, a solemn warning, for your future guidance. Remember my darling that you made your covenants at the altar with your husband this morning to multiply and replenish the earth, and any refusal on our part to keep the commandments of God will sooner or later bring the punishment." With a sob in her throat, the beautiful girl bride caught her mother and murmured, as she clung to her, "Mother, I will re— member I will never forget."
ATTENTION TO SUBSCRIBERS. Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 10 per cent discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents — such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by the agents themselves.
Notes from the Field. By the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy B. Lyman. The new Relief Society books for secretaries, treasurers, and teachers will be ready for distribution early in January, and will be sent directly to the stake presidents. Several orders for books have been sent to the general office from wards, but have been returned as this office is not delivering such books to the wards. Mrs. Mattie J. Ballard, president of the Relief Society in the Northern States Mission, reports a very successful visit to the branches of the Church in Montana. Regular Relief Society conferences were held at Spokane and Anaconda. The president of the Spokane branch is Mrs. Amelia Cluff, and the president of the Anaconda branch is Mrs. Annie Amer. At Butte, a reorganization of the Society took place when Mrs. Margaret Boam was sustained as president. At Helena a new society was organized with Mrs. Violet Brazer as President. The branches all show a keen and active interest in the work, and the members are doing all they can to further the same. The Spokane branch is making pillow cases to donate to the cottage for elders, at the Fort Pick Indian Reservation. Mrs. Emily S. Richards and Phebe Y. Beatie were appointed by Governor Spry to attend the 1915 International Peace Congress held at San Francisco. The School of Nursing and Obstetrics is progressing nicely. There has never been a brighter or more earnest class of students in attendance. Most of the members of the class expect to take up the practice of nursing and obstetrics, while several members — — young ladies and mothers are taking the course simply to prepare themselves to be a help in their own homes, and a benefit to society in general On Tuesday, Oct. 19, 1915, President Emmeline B. Wells visited the Willard ward of the Box Elder stake, by special invitation, the exercises being planned entirely in her honor. President Wells was accompanied by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. As this was the regular meeting day of the Society, two sessions were held. At noon the Assembly adjourned to the basement, where a delicious luncheon was served from snowy white tables, decorated with beautiful, fall flowers. Covers were laid for one hundred and twenty. President Wells was greeted on all sides by old acquaintances and friends, and enjoyed the visit thoroughly. She spoke at both sessions, and her remarks were highly appreciated by the 145 members in attendance. At the close of the afternoon session, the visitors were driven to the station, where, with their arms loaded with flowers, they bade their hospitable friends good-bye. In Liberty ward of Bear Lake stake, the women take lunch and spend a day during the holidays with each aged family in the ward. In St. Charles ward, Bear Lake stake, during the year 1914, thirty aged women and widows were entertained at their own homes. The Trenton ward, last year, raised $137.05 for the Belgian relief fund. In the Willard ward, of Box Elder stake, last Thanksgiving, the Relief Society sent Thanksgiving dinners to nine aged people. This ward also sewed twelve days for those in need. Kanab ward Relief Society took full care of one sick woman for four months. — Afton ward Star Valley stake —prepared a Christmas tree last year for their hospital. In South Ephraim ward, twenty women sewed one-half day each for motherless children in the town. In Mt. Pleasant ward, twenty-seven families were remembered at Christmas. In Mt. Pleasant north, eighteen families were remembered at Christmas, making together in this small place forty-five families. The newly reorganized Salt Lake stake Relief Society has a fine choir, under the leadership of that favorite singer, Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas. Reorganizations have recently been made in the Relief Societies of several stakes. At the organization of the new Portneuf stake, Mrs. Dicey W. Henderson was made president. Mrs. Henderson was at the time of the change, president of the Pocatello stake. The office left vacant by this change was filled by Mrs. Emily Gladwin, of Pocatello, Idaho. Davis stake was divided a few months ago into North and South Davis. Mrs. Elizabeth J. Ford who had been the president was retained as president of South Davis, and Mrs. Emma J. D. Strong was made president of North Davis. At a recent special conference held in South Sanpete, President Abigail Shoemaker was honorably released from her position on account of illness, and Mrs. Hannah Christensen was chosen to take her place as president in this thriving stake. Mrs. Florence B. Crittenden of Hoytsville has been made president of Summit stake, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Mrs. Sarah A. Lewis, who has been a very capable and earnest officer. Mrs. Harriet B. Harker, president of Salt Lake stake for many years, has resigned from this position on account of change of residence. Mrs. Harker was succeeded by Mrs. Hattie Jensen, her former counselor. The Salt Lake stake has always been an active and thoroughly up-to-date stake, and Mrs. Harker has maintained this high grade of excellence throughout. It will be remembered that Mrs. Harker was at one time a very active and efficient member of the General Board. At the reorganization of Liberty stake, Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter was chosen as president. The Liberty stake has been presided over for several years by Mrs. Effie Ensign Merrill, who has recently removed to her old home in Logan. Mrs. Merrill, an active and energetic young woman, achieved unusual results during the short period of her presidency. At a conference held in Ensign stake on November 19, Mrs. Elise B. Alder was chosen president. Mrs. Alder fills the place which was made vacant by the death of Mrs. Margaret Romney. Mrs. Romney had for many years devoted her life and energy to Relief Society work, and her death was mourned by the hundreds she had comforted and befriended. Mrs. Alder is the daughter of Mrs. Louisa B. Benson, who is at the present time, the capable president of the Oneida stake, one of the largest in the Church.
Snowflake Stake History. In response to many inquiries, we give here a model history, as prepared by the Secretary of the Snowflake stake. It is brief, comprehensive, and very interesting. We would not wish other stakes to copy it in detail, but to use it as a suggestive form on which to base their own history. It is as follows SNOWFLAKE HISTORICAL REPORT. At a quarterly conference of the Eastern Arizona stake, held at Snowflake, Dec.18, 1887, Apostle John Henry Smith divided the stake. A portion was called the St. Johns stake, and the remainder, to which was added the Little Colorado stake, was to be known as the Snowflake stake. The Relief Society was also organized by Apostle John Henry Smith. When the stakes were divided there were thirteen societies. The different Stake Boards have gotten up theatres, entertainments, dances, served suppers and luncheons, etc. From 1900 to 1915 they have raised $303.90. The Stake Boards have sent one sister to be trained for a nurse. They were also instrumental, together with the Stake Presidency, in obtaining the services of Sister Maud L. Ditty, of Salt Lake City, to come to Snowflake and teach a nurse class of twenty-three students. They have assisted with all public buildings in the community, and erected a monument to the memory of Sister Sarah Driggs, a former stake officer. We did not engage in silk raising in our stake, but for a number of years, through the '90's, we saved money for a woolen factory. The money was later put into the stake academy. We prepared written study outlines for the Societies for a number of years, 1909 to 1912, and for 1913 we got out a printed outline. We have assisted in building the Academy and other public buildings to the amount of $1,559.50. Value of clothing distributed to the poor, $845.06. Labor performed for various purposes, $378.00. Some of these figures have been estimated, as accounts have not been carefully kept. 1. Number of dozens of Sunday eggs gathered by the Societies, 1,233. 2. Number of quilts, comforts and blankets made, 1,013. 3. Number of yards of carpets, 1,152; rugs, 16 yards. 4. Number of bushels of wheat saved, 103. Beans saved, 204 bushels. 5. The Societies have built three houses and bought interest in one. 6. Number of Church works and other books collected, 87. 7. Number of acres of land owned by the Societies, 3 41-160 acres. 8. Amount of cash donated to Temples, $44.25. Donations were made to help build the Salt Lake Temple, but no account has been kept of it. 9. Number of dead for whom ordinance work has been done, only one. 10. Number of missionaries helped, 140. 11. Number of sick visited, 19,262 visits, approximated. 12. Number of dead clothed and prepared for burial, 273. Value of Temple aprons furnished in one ward, $7.00. 13. Number of bazaars or fairs held, 18. Our Societies own stock in Arizona Co-operative Mercantile Institution, to the amount of $357.28, and in banks, $390.00. Lulu J. Smith, Stake Secretary. LIST OF OFFICERS OF THE SNOWFLAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY. PRESIDENTS: Emma S. Smith,* Dec. 18, 1887, to Aug. 11, 1905; Mary J. R. West, Aug. 11, 1905, to June 4, 1911 Nellie; M. Smith, June 4, 1911, to July, 1915 (In office at this writing). First Counselors: Emily J. Lewis, Dec. 18, 1887, to 1893: Sarah Driggs, Aug. 28, 1893, to Aug. 11, 1905; Emma L. Smith, Aug. 13, 1905, to June 4, 1911 Belle H. Flake, June 4, 1911, to; May 15, 1915 Ann S. Shumway, May 15, 1915, to the present. ; Second Counselors: Sarah Driggs, Dec. 18, 1887, to Aug. 28, 1893 Ruth A. Hatch, Aug. 28, 1893, to Nov. 21, 1895 Mary; ; I. R. West, Nov. 21, 1895, to Aug. 11, 1905 Belle H. Flake, Aug. ; 11, 1905, to June 4, 1911 Ann S. Shumway, June 4, 1911, to May; 15, 1915 Dena S. Hulet, May 15, 1915, to the present. ; Secretaries Delia Fish Smith, March 9, 1888, to March: 17, 1910; Laura Baird, March 17, 1910, to June 4, 1911; Maud F. Ramsay, June 4, 1911, to May 31, 1914; Lulu J. Smith, May 31, 1914, to the present. Assistant Secretaries: Lois Hunt, Nov. 21, 1895, to Nov. 27, 1897 Margaret Smith, Nov. 27, 1897, to: Annie Rogers, ; February, 1907, to Laura Baird, March 23, 1909, to March; 17, 1910; Lulu J. Smith, March 31, 1910, to May 31, 1914; Philena Miller, May 31, 1914, to the present. Treasurers, Jemima W. Smith, June 1, 1888, to June 2, 1890; Janet M. Smith, June 2, 1890, to March 31, 1910: Lulu J. Smith, March 31, 1910, to May 31, 1914; Philena Miller, May 31, 1914, to the present. Officers of the Eastern Arizona stake, from which Snowflake stake was taken Presidents Wilmirth East, June 27, 1880, to July 1, 1883: ; Emma S. Smith, July 1, 1883, to Dec. 18, 1887. First Counselors Emma S. Smith, July 12, 1880, to July: 1, 1883 Lois B. Hunt, Sept. 28, 1883, to March 1, 1885 Emily J. ; ; Lewis, Dec. 11, 1885, to Dec. 18, 1887. Sister Lois B. Hunt was burned to death. Second Counselors Lois B. Hunt, July 12, 1880, to July: 1, 1883 Frances White, Sept. 28, 1883, to Dec. 18, 1887. ; Secretaries Ida F. Hunt Udall, July 12, 1880, to Sept. 12, : 1884; Delia Fish Smith, Sept. 12, 1884, to Dec. 18, 1887. Treasurer: Eliza J. Fish, July 12, 1880, to Dec. 18, 1887. At the time the stake was divided there were thirteen societies all doing fairly well. Following is the disbursements of the society from 1880 to 1887: Disbursed for charitable purposes $ 482.35 " " emigration 36.50 " stake house 61.50 " Deseret hospital 65.00 " home industries 240.11 " books 41.40 " " missionaries 41.39 " Indians 5.55 " buildings; 443.76 $1,417.56 STAKE AND WARD GENEALOGICAL COMMITTEES, ATTENTION. We desire to have a canvas made, this winter, for all the women in this Society to become annual or life members of the Genealogical Society of Utah. Once a life member, and there are no more dues to pay. No adult in the Church can afford to neglect this plain duty. The labors of this Society lie at the root of all our Temple work. Let us secure ten thousand life members for the Genealogical Society, during the year 1916. What the Relief Society sisters attempt will be a success. God bless the Relief Society
Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. The Mexican revolution seems to be growing smaller in extent, though not less bloody in its methods. The mining industry of Utah produced upwards of fifty millions of dollars in the precious metals in 1915. That is $125 per capita for Utah's population. Japan announces a readiness to send an army into Europe to assist its allies there. Yet, with German-Hungarian-officers training China's soldiery, the shrewd Jap is likely to keep his "weather-eye" open preferably in that direction. A sugar factory at Delta, Utah, seems to be a near probability, a company having been organized with that in view. There also is a movement for such a factory at Brigham City. At the same time some of the other factories are closing down early, owing to a shortage in this season's beet crop. The interurban railway main station opposite the southwest corner of Temple Square in Salt Lake City is looked on in a very favorable light by passengers who come into the city over the interurban lines, and whose general convenience is greatly enhanced by the new location. Morocco has become a civilized country, safe to travel in, and producing abundant crops instead of being nine-tenths waste, and all this since the French occupied it ten years ago. French liberality in governing the country also has resulted in great benefit to the natives. Greece has yielded to the demand of Great Britain and France not to interfere with their troops should the latter be driven from Bulgaria or Servia into Greece. It was the only way by which Constantine could remain on the Greek throne in existing circumstances, and even yet his position is of uncertain tenure. Increase of internal taxation is proposed by the American national administration, whereby smaller incomes than the present legal limit will be taxed, and the "war-tax" measure extended to other articles of common use than now provided. The prospective revenue for the national government under the present law is estimated to be $115,000,000 less than will be required for the ordinary expenses of 1915. Stripping of all supplies the portion of Russia and Belgium occupied by the invaders is reported to be the active policy of the latter, to the extent that the death rate among children remaining in those localities is greatly increased, by reason of insufficient sustenance. Thus dominant militarism knows no distinction of sympathy between the helpless infant and the soldier on the firing line, in its disregard of human life. Death by reckless driving of automobiles of several persons seems at last to have awakened some public officers in Salt Lake City to the enforcement of the law forbidding vehicles to run past standing street cars from which passengers are alighting. If officials chosen to enforce the law had done this earlier, there would have been less mourning among families whose bereavement came because of the neglect. Twenty children were burned to death at St. John's parochial school at Peabody, Mass., when a little crippled child fell and blocked the way of children trying to escape from the burning building. No school building should be limited to a single exit, however sufficient it may prove at a "fire-drill" when there is no visible cause of excitement. Hamburg-American steamship company officials in New York are shown in a trial in the federal court there to have violated the laws of the United States by sending a dozen or more ships from American ports to deliver supplies to German warships at sea. Berlin, advices say the British Mesopotamian army marched over from Egypt this is denied by British authorities. The fact; is that the Mesopotamian army came up the valley of the Euphrates from the Persian Gulf, while the large British army which left Egypt and the Suez Canal is in Southern Palestine, but the censorship permits little information regarding its movements to leak through. Enough comes, however, to show that Britain has an eye on the possession of the whole of Syria as an outcome of the present war. Dr. Haiselden, a Chicago physician, permitted a babe to die for lack of an operation which he said would save its life, his reason being that if the child lived it would be mentally defective. It is a dangerous thing, however, to permit any individual doctor to pass finally on such matters, since perfect judgment thereon, morally, is not vouchsafed in any training for the medical profession. Equal suffrage for women was defeated in five eastern states in recent elections but the fact that more than a million male; voters recorded their ballots in its favor is such a wonderful stride beyond what was possible even five years ago that the equal suffragists have abundant cause for feeling gratified, and for continuing on the highway to ultimate success, which is due within a comparatively brief period. The Hillstrom case in Utah came to a close by the execution of the double-murderer. When President Wilson interposed for the second time — this last occasion being at the request of the American Federation of Labor, which was not fully informed on the case — and intimated in his telegram to Mr. Gompers, the Federation head, that Hillstrom had not obtained justice at his trial, the action of the President was regarded in this locality as very unfair to Utah, being an encouragement to the campaign of lawless threats instituted on behalf of the condemned murderer. The Ancona, an Italian ocean-line steamship, was sunk by an Austrian submarine, which fired on the passengers as they were being lowered into the small boats. Among the more than 200 passengers lost were twenty-seven American citizens. The Austrian government holds that it is not amenable under the rule in the case of the Lusitania, since notice from the United States was sent only to Germany. American sentiment, however, regards Austria as much more culpable than Germany, since the dual monarchy knew all the diplomacy of that situation, and had no excuse of ignorance for killing unarmed neutrals, or even firing on the helpless men, women and children of belligerent nations. Nineteen millions of people, it is estimated, have passed through the gates of the San Francisco Exposition during the year, 1915. The European writers are discussing, very earnestly, the problem of the so-called war-babies. Over 180,000 of these babies, it is said, were born in Germany alone. Societies are studying the problem of removing the stigma from the generally helpless mothers and the innocent babies.
Home Science Department. Janette A. Hyde. Recipes by Mme. Rorer, given in her classes in Salt Lake City, August, 1915. Children should be taught very early in life to eat the things which are best for them. Each child has its own likes and dislikes, but every mother should see to it that her children have the proper nourishment taken into the body in spite of personal tastes. If a child does not care for a certain thing, don't try to make him eat it the body will take care of itself. But encourage a taste for things you know are good for him. Fats are never digested, they are assimilated; fat is the only food that is not digested. Fat taken into the body remains as fat in the body. Starch taken into the body is changed into sugar; sugar taken into the body is changed into acid. People have gone shortening mad; and the desire for fried foods is said by some to be a great cause of cancer. Cancer is very prevalent where pork is used to excess and foods swim in fat. When we realize that Mme. Rorer's new book on Breadmaking contains 9,000 pages, we can see how much there is to be learned in this one line of cookery.
— Scotch Scones. The ingredients are one cup of milk, two cups of flour, one egg, two level teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful of shortening. Add the baking powder, the salt and the shortening to the flour and mix thoroughly. Beat the eggs and add the milk. Pour milk and egg into the flour. Drop into a dish and put in a quick oven. Bake in twenty minutes.
— Nut Bread. The same recipe is used, except that the shortening is omitted and two-thirds of a cup of nuts added. After the mixture is prepared, let it stand ten minutes to raise. It should bake forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Nut bread should never be cut until the next day.
— Egg Rolls. This recipe is the same as for Scotch scones except that two-thirds of a cup of milk is used. Roll out moderately thin, cut into a circle, fold over, press together and bake.
Pin Wheels. —Use the same dough as for egg rolls. Roll into a thin sheet. Spread thinly with butter, thickly with sugar, dust over a little cinnamon and a few currants. Roll and cut into small sections. In baking, the sections should not be placed too closely together.
— Plain Mush Bread. For plain mush bread put one pint of milk over the fire. Add one cup of cornmeal. Stir until you have a smooth mush. Take from the fire, add one-half teaspoonful of salt, the yolks of four eggs. Fold in the whites of four eggs. Bake in a moderate oven for about a half hour.
— Milk Biscuits. Use recipe for Scotch scones; add three-fourths of a cup of milk, and omit the egg.
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES.
Peony plants may be divided once in every three years, which will usually give from two to four plants. Two-year-old plants, field grown, from divisions, are the best with which to start a bed of peonies.
The old-fashioned hollyhock will grow in any good garden loam in a well drained location. For fine results, give it a soil made of good limestone loam, enriched with well-rotted horse manure, and a dusting of bone meal in the spring.
Before the discovery of the German mines, wood ashes were one of the main sources of potash. Unleached hardwood ashes contain from five to seven per cent potash. Soft wood ashes are somewhat lower in potash content. Wood ashes that have been leached or exposed to the weather, contain only a small amount of potash, and that only the less available portion—leached ashes contain no available potash or other plant food. Beet sugar molasses is quite rich in potash, and some potash may be expected as a byproduct from this source.
Rose colored sentiment for Christmas basket: I shall give her the gift of always seeing the bright side of everything. That gift will be more to her than beauty or riches or honors. It is not so much matter what color one's eyes are, as what one sees with them. There is a bright side to everything, if people only knew it, and the best eyes are those which are able to see this bright side. — Harriet Beecher Stowe.
A Bed of Petunias. The seed of single petunias may be sown quite early in hot beds or in window boxes, but seed sown in a properly prepared bed will do about as well, except that the flowers may be a few days later. Petunia plants should not be more than eighteen inches apart, as they mass well, and produce a brilliant display that lasts all summer. Care should be taken not to cover the seeds too deep, as they are so very small they are liable to decay if they are planted too deep. Place the seeds on the surface of the earth and press or rub the surface gently with a hoe or board, which causes the seeds to drop among the particles of soil on the surface. This is one of the cheapest but most delightful flower beds it is possible to secure at small cost.
Vegetables contain a considerable amount of protein, in proportion to their bulk, and if one could eat enough, the body would be well nourished with them alone, but our stomachs are not made to accommodate large masses of bulky food, so vegetables must be supplemented by other articles. Vegetables boiled in a large amount of water, which is turned down the sink, lose their most valuable elements. They should be steamed or served in a sauce made of the cooking water, which should be as little as possible.
POEMS BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.
The second edition of Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells' poems, just issued, will be welcomed by legions of friends and admirers of that remarkable woman and inspired writer. Every Relief Society library will no doubt be supplied with a volume, for the book is filled with the tender effusions of a poetic mind and contains the rich flow of an inspirational soul. President Wells has been writing for three-quarters of a century and there is an exquisite grace and a charming melody in every single poem enclosed in the collection. Moreover, the pages breathe the fixed integrity of a soul at one with God. Our sisters should read and reflect upon the chaste and exalted sentiments here reflected and their minds will be enlarged and purified by the lovely spirit which radiates from these poems. We heartily commend this book to every lover of the beautiful, and that is every woman in the Relief Society. The General Board begins the sale by each subscribing for a volume. It is marvelous that our President, eighty-seven years of age, should present such a noble work at her time of life, and her friends will manifest their appreciation of this feat by rallying to the quick and complete sale of this limited edition. Quite a sum of money for the cost of publication, was generously raised by the Utah Woman's Press Club, and the balance will surely be forthcoming through the sale of the book.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Motto — Charity Never Faileth.
THE GENERAL BOARD
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells — President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams — First Counselor
Mrs. Julina L. Smith — Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman — General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates — Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey — Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor: Susa Young Gates Business Manager: Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager: Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. III. JANUARY, 1916. No. 1.
A NEW YEAR RESOLVE.
The icy dawn of New Year's Day brings to most of us the traditions and memories which cling with more or less pleasure, mingled with more or less regret, around this yearly festival. We are inclined to look back over the past year, and in spite of our refusal to be guided by outworn sentimentalism — to make a few quiet resolves as sign-posts for the coming year. We will be kinder, will visit the sick oftener, minister to the needy, and comfort the bereaved more zealously than we have heretofore done. We will study, learn, read more, acquaint ourselves more fully with the history, the science, the literature of the world. We will practice a more rigid economy, will get out of debt, save a little money — all these good resolutions flit over the surface of our minds and find more or less lodgment there.
There is a passage in one of the early sections of the Doctrine and Covenants which should burn itself into the breast of every Latter-day Saint who is, or may be, called a Saint. It is found in Section 18, in a revelation given to the Prophet, outlining the mission and ministry of the Twelve Apostles. We are there told, "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God ***** And if it so be," continues the revelation, "that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul, unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father."
One soul! Think of the weight and value of this saying. Think of the bliss which will be ours if even one soul clasps our hand in eternity, and acknowledges that soul's debt before the Throne of Grace. Think also, of the exquisite misery which would overwhelm us if one soul looked us in the face there, and declared that his or her downfall was caused by our idle words, or our evil neglect. Ah, these are New Year thoughts which must give us pause.
When my New Year comes, I shall sit in communion with my own soul, while I question the past and prepare for the future. And the one dominant thought will be: have I helped to save, or have I caused to stumble, one soul during the year 1915? Then quenching my useless regrets, and pleading pardon for my mistakes, there will emerge one vital question: What Can I Do to Save One Soul?
I may do many things: A good word in season, a kind act performed when most needed; and, above all, a strict attention, on my own part, to the laws of the gospel so that my own inner light shall shine brightly — prayer daily — all these will help me to help others. Then there is one sure way I may take, one certain path I may tread, that will lead me to this goal of all my desires — it is the path which leads my willing feet to the doors of the Temple. Here are waiting souls to save — thousands of them. And if I will attend but one day in the spirit and meaning thereof — how easily will my prayer be answered, my resolve be accomplished!
And so I sit communing with my New Year resolve, determining that longing shall be replaced by action, resolve by deeds and that I shall redeem at least one soul during the year of 1916.
Wild extravagance in gift-giving is a menace to society. It breeds selfishness and greed and corrupts both those who give and those who receive. Be wise in this, as in all things.
Guide Lessons.
LESSON I. Theology and Testimony.
First Week, February, 1916.
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE.
SARAH AND HAGAR.
References: Genesis 11:29, 30; 12:11, 20; 16:1, 6; 17:15-22; 18:9-15; 20; 21; 23; Heb. 11; I Pet. 3:16; Gal. 4:22-31.
The character of Sarah, the wife of Abraham, is presented in the Bible in general outlines. If she is to be understood, and loved, however, the student should know much of oriental lore, should understand the nature of Sarah's association with her husband and her household, and should also be somewhat familiar with Hagar's upbringing and Egyptian character. We give all the Bible references to Sarah, and suggest that each of them be read to the class, with the context. If any have a volume of Josephus, or the Book of Jasher, or a good encyclopedia, study them carefully as to the sidelights given of Sarah.
It is natural for those who look upon Abraham's family relations with unsympathetic eyes to allow all their sympathy to go to Hagar, in the events of Sarah's later years. Let us consider, first, however, the story as given us by Moses in the Book of Genesis, and see what Sarah was, as shown by these facts.
Sarah was the niece of Abram — so we are told by Jewish commentators. She was of superb beauty, supremely intelligent, true to the gospel in the midst of the luxury and temptations around her, in the pagan city of Ur. After her marriage with Abram, she joined him in his wanderings, sharing his toils and his triumphs, as any good wife should. They lived in tents, as do the bedouins of today. She was with Abram when he journeyed down to Egypt, and suggested a way to secure the favor of the Pharaoh through her own beauty and charm. The plan worked, but God punished Pharaoh for desiring Sarah, and so severely afflicted the king, that he felt justified in reproaching Abram for his duplicity in telling a half-truth about Sarah's relationship to him.
The same incident occurred years later — Sarah still being so beautiful and magnetic that Abimelech — shepherd-king of Gerar, appropriated her, was stricken nigh unto death, discovered her relationship to Abram, reproached him for his deceit, at the same time offering the subtle reproof to Sarah of a covering of her eyes, showing that she went about unveiled, as did the Assyrian and Egyptian women.
While they were down in Egypt, Sarah acquired an Egyptian bondwoman, Hagar, said by the Rabbis to be a daughter of Pharaoh. Abram returned to his own land, having acquired great riches, but was childless. The Lord, who came to Abram in a vision, promised seed to the grieving couple. At the second announcement, Sarah — who was past the child-bearing period — laughed in unbelief at such a statement. But later, she was so anxious to see its fulfillment, that she gave her bondwoman, Hagar, to her husband as a concubine, which was a relation peculiar to ancient, oriental life. Hagar, fiercely proud and jealous of both Abram's and Sarah's love and favor, gradually usurped the rightful position of her mistress, and so cruelly goaded and taunted Sarah, that she chastised Hagar who fled to the wilderness. Here Hagar was met by an angel who told her to return to her mistress and submit herself in good part to Sarah, who had a right to expect obedience and respect from her bondwoman.
Sarah was both wise and magnetic. She was proud and self-willed. But when the voice of authority spoke, she was ready to listen. Impulsive, generous, noble, pure, high-principled, broad-minded, and truthful, she was a queen in her own right. Her husband was the greatest character in the Bible, and she was his true mate. Keturah, no doubt, was acquainted with Sarah, and was married to Abram after Hagar's departure.
Hagar's early life, training, and inheritance, we may infer unfitted her to associate on equal terms with the Semites. She was an Egyptian — passionately proud, vindictively jealous, and with a personal ambition that stopped at nothing to gratify itself. Might was right in her country, and love and justice were very elastic terms. One sorrows at her cruel sufferings, but out of her story there is one lasting lesson: the cruelty of selfishness. She and her son possessed quick generosity as to worldly matters, with narrow selfishness that wills to gratify selfish love, selfish hate, or selfish ambition, though all else be lost.
The subsequent events — the birth of Ishmael, the intolerant pride of both Hagar and her son, the birth of Isaac, with the continued abuse of Hagar, and the insolence of Ishmael at the christening of Isaac — all of these are plainly indicated in the story. Does anyone think Abram would have allowed Hagar to go away with her son unless there had been good and sufficient cause? Would the Lord have counseled him to do so, simply to satisfy a demand of Sarah's? The text does not so indicate. The insults heaped upon the child Isaac by his half-brother Ishmael must have been more than mere boyish taunts.
And Sarah said unto Abram, "My wrong be upon thee; I have given my maid into thy bosom; and when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes." How significant is this brief paragraph!
And again (chap. 21:8): "And the child grew, and was weaned; and Abraham made a great feast the same day that Isaac was weaned. And Sarah saw the son of Hagar, the Egyptian, which she had born unto Abraham, mocking."
Sarah had a noble pride that would both give and take. Hagar's pride allowed her only to give. She would not receive, nor submit, except under compulsion. Their relations to Abraham did not alter their inborn characters, it only permitted the fullest expression thereof. Reverse their positions, if you can, and thus learn the difference. We love Sarah; we pity Hagar. The children of Israel are the children of Sarah. The Bedouins of Arabia are the descendants of Hagar.
Sarah was not blameless, nor was Hagar without fault. We love the historian who has set down the plain facts, in this story, helping us to see the cruelty of jealousy and the beauty of submission to authority.
QUESTIONS.
Relate the story of Sarah. Why was her name changed? How do we know that she was lovely beyond all women? Who was Hagar? What can you say of the Egyptians? Why did Sarah give Hagar to Abraham? Who was Ishmael? What effect does taunting have upon the spirit of one so assailed? What do you think of the story of Hagar? How can happiness or peace exist in a home where there is contention and jealousy? Why do we think Sarah was noble and good?
LESSON II. Work and Business.
Second Week in February.
LESSON III. Genealogy and Art.
Third Week in February.
GENEALOGY.
The moment a person begins his individual record, he is confronted with a number of questions: When was I baptized? When was I appointed to office in the Relief Society? And many other numerous points. Too often the person who is unable to give all this information off-hand, becomes discouraged, and gives the whole matter up. What then shall be done by the class teacher or supervisor?
First — Encourage the person to write down all she can in the class.
And second — urge her to write and inquire for further information. If it is a baptism date, write to the Bishop of the ward; if born in the Church, write to the parish minister, if christened in the old country. If the endowment date is missing, write to the President of the Temple where the ordinance was performed, stating exactly what you want. Always send stamps for reply.
We give a sample letter to help our workers in distant stakes:
Logan, Nov. 9.
Dear Sir:
My name is Mrs. Mary Ann Smith Jones. I was born 20th November, 1869, in Provo. Was baptized in the Fourth ward of that city when I was eight years old; that is, in 1877, so my mother told me. My father's name is Jesse Smith, my mother's name is Mrs. Hannah Allen Smith. Can you give me the exact date, and the name of the elder who officiated in the baptism and in the confirmation ordinances? I enclose stamps for reply. Thanking you in advance for your kindness, I am
Yours truly,
Model letter to Parish Clerk:
Parish Clerk of Old South Church, Boston, Mass.
Dear Sir:
My second great-grandfather, William Young, who married Hannah Healy, of Cambridge, was a worshiper in your church, in 1721. He went from Boston to Barrington, N. H., in 1720-22, was one of the original proprietors of that town, but in all Barrington deeds, he speaks of himself as "of Boston." His children were: Elizabeth — who married Elisha Hall — and Joseph. William later — probably in 1730 — moved to Hopkinton, Mass., with his friend Rev. Samuel Barrett of the Old North Church, Boston, taking his wife and two children with him. William died in Hopkinton, in 1749. Can you give any further information from your records? I want date of William's birth, parent's name, and other data. Also birth dates of children, Elizabeth and Joseph, and wish to know if there were other children. Will pay regular rate for searching records. I enclose stamps for reply. Thanking you in advance, I am
Yours truly.
When writing to non-"Mormon" church officials, or relatives, it is always better to enclose a blank such as we furnish in this office. In any letters of inquiry, observe the following points:
Give your own full name — never use initials. Give the full name of the person whose record you wish searched for. Give dates of birth, marriage, or death of the person, if you have them. Give birthplace, places of residence of self, or the person desired. Where possible, add the names and dates of family members, if you desire information concerning their parents.
Practical Class Exercise. — Let each student write an actual or a model letter, asking for information on some point concerning her individual record. If the Relief Society member has prepared her own sheet, then let her write out her husband's sheet in the same full and careful manner. This work should preferably be done in the class. Where sheets are left with the person to fill out at home, they are too often forgotten or neglected.
QUESTIONS.
How much can you give of your own data? What would you do to get missing dates in your record? Why is it important to get out your own data? What points would you note always in your letters to bishops, clerks, or ministers? Why are initials misleading? What genealogical value is there in the use of your full name, when writing to others for more information? When writing for information about your parents or grandparents, what plan would you follow? When your own data is complete, what next will you do?
ART AND ARCHITECTURE.
WINTER LANDSCAPE AND SUNSHINE.
Re-read introduction in January Art lesson.
Let each member make for herself what the artists call a "finder," this is a small picture frame of stiff cardboard or pasteboard about 2x3 inches, which should be colored black. With this little frame, you can find many beautiful pictures in nature, that you would not perhaps otherwise notice.
In observing the winter landscape, we are taking a special interest in the color of the sky, the character of clouds, the character and color of the bare trees and brush, and the color of the shadows on the snow. Hold up your picture frame or "finder;" cover up one eye, and look for the lightest thing and the darkest spot in the picture you have selected in your frame.
VALUES.
Which is lighter, the sky or the field of snow? What color would you use to paint that clump of willows or bushes? You could not paint the snow correctly with pure white. What color would you mix with white to show the effect of sunlight on the snow? (The answer might be yellow.) What color would you use to make the shadows on the snow?
FEBRUARY TWILIGHT.
a. What is the length of duration of the winter twilight? b. Describe winter twilight on a lake or river bank, or a twilight scene from your own window. c. Tell what object in that picture makes the darkest note, and which the lightest note. d. Every window should frame a picture. Does yours at twilight? e. At what time of day is the snow-covered ground darker than the sky? (Half close the eyes and look through the lashes to discover this.)
WINTER WALK.
Let the members take in little groups, or singly as seems best, a winter walk to observe and enjoy winter landscape. Take with you the "finder" and make a search for pictures along your path, and report the same at the Art lesson.
LESSON ON ARCHITECTURE.
a. Quick review of January lesson in Architecture from Devotees and Their Shrines, pages 120-22. b. New lesson, from pages 122 to 124.
1. The Transition to the Renaissance.
2. Elizabethan style.
3. The Jacobean style.
Questions:
a. Describe the Transition to the Renaissance. b. Describe the Renaissance movement. (Note page 123.) (Also consult Dictionary and Encyclopedia.) c. What are the Classic Orders? d. Describe the Elizabethan style. (Figure 3, Montacute House.)
LESSON IV. Home Economics.
THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME.
Fourth Week, February.
The "Mormon" Conception of the Home.
Unlike other peoples, the Latter-day Saints believe that the home upon earth is patterned after the home in heaven. Paul says that things earthly are a type of things heavenly. In the righteous home, the husband and father presides by reason of his superior wisdom and virtue. The wife and mother stands shoulder to shoulder with him, while the children repeat their virtues and their teachings.
Ideals of the Christian Family.
Mortal life is one of the grandest privileges granted by our Father. To have the opportunity of gradual development, of growth, of achievement, this is one of the supreme gifts of God to his children. Mortal life is a preparatory school for the spirit. The body may be compared to the four walls in which we learn our lessons. These walls confine our spirits, limit our powers, and check the full expression of our wills — happily so. For without these confining walls, we would be powerless to react, unable to learn the full lesson of faith, unselfish love and strict obedience to law.
The Family Circle.
Race suicide, and its twin sister — prevention of child-bearing, through so-called harmless methods, has no place in the heavenly plan for our human homes. Men and women who know not God can be excused, perhaps, for maintaining childless homes. But true Christians, and Latter-day Saints are the truest of all Christians, cannot acquiesce in any doctrine or practice which sanctions marriage and allows restriction of offspring. God only is the arbiter of life and death. If a man take his own life he cuts himself off from the presence of God. Why not also declare that the woman who prevents birth cuts herself off from all hope of eternal exaltation? The greatest modern sin is the limiting of offspring for selfish purposes. This sin is denounced in the book of Jasher, an ex-canonical book, as one of the prime causes of the deluge.
Love and Service.
The foundation of all joy and all happiness, is to love and to serve. If we love truly, we will want to serve. The joy of service is the keenest delight the heart ever knows. To acquire money, knowledge or fame, gives a certain crude pleasure but to be of service, to administer to others, to achieve, this is the supreme happiness, it is God-like.
Obedience to the Laws of Health.
God thought so much of health that he inspired Moses to write a whole code of laws governing the minutest point of daily action for the children of Israel. He taught them the strictest cleanliness, bade them burn infected clothing, whitewash houses, cleanse all vessels, and made personal cleanliness a part of their ceremonial rituals. Modern teachers and physicians have but emphasized, and clothed in simple terms, the restrictions of Moses. The Word of Wisdom, and the 123-126 verses of the 88th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, restate these laws.
Physical Virtues.
Virtue is generally its own reward. As a rule, those who keep the laws of health will be strong and well. There is one point, however, to consider: there may be many laws of which we are ignorant as well as the few we know. We may be breaking some unknown physical law even if we are keeping all the known laws. So that, after all, we are dependent on our Father's mercy, not only for life and breath, but also for what measure of health we may enjoy from time to time. However, we should keep the laws we know, that we may not suffer the consequences of willful disobedience. God may and does overrule our ignorant disobedience, but he is not so merciful to deliberate disobedience.
Longevity.
Most men crave long life. Simple food, with a good variety, plenty of sleep, obedience to the laws of the gospel, the day well measured as to work and play, a mind free from corroding worry — these may insure long years of useful life. A prolonged age is not an unmixed blessing. If elderly people are happily engaged in the rejuvenating labors of the temple, or in useful service to mankind, the years may flow on to the century mark. But idle and complaining old age has but one apparent blessing, the discipline of spirit for younger members of the family.
Improvements of Home Life.
The wise mother will endeavor to adjust herself to the lightning changes of modern times. But as old habits are broken up and new ideals emerge from the day's problems, she will scan closely the relations of the changing customs to the rock of revelation and to the revealed forms of religion. Above all things the mother of tomorrow must be adaptable, able to seize the best of today, while losing none of the priceless things of yesterday. Truth is ever the same; but there are so many ways of seeing and presenting truth that the wise mother and grandmother will search constantly for the new word, the modern phrase, the up-to-date illustration with which to clothe her eternal truth, her everlasting principles of virtue and holiness.
Truth, loyalty and integrity, these are the pillars of the home, the foundations of society, here and hereafter. We need stricter obedience to the laws of cleanliness, to the Word of Wisdom, and to the laws of Moses as taught in modern hygiene, and the Doctrine and Covenants. We need constant watchfulness on the part of parents, for the protection of childhood from the moral contamination of modern conditions. We need constant emphasis placed on the importance of the spiritual laws of our own religion. That which parents love to do, children usually enjoy doing also. We need more loyal affection and reverence shown by mothers to fathers, by children to parents, and by fathers to the presiding priesthood. We should cultivate a strict adherence to the teachings of our pioneer fathers and mothers, while remembering to honor their lives and memories.
QUESTIONS.
What are the teachings of the Church concerning the home? What do you consider one of the greatest gifts of God to his children? What have you taught your daughters about bearing their children? Are women ever justified in refusing to have children? Who are the healthiest women in your community, and how many children have they brought into the world? What brings the greatest joy to the human soul? What is the meaning of love? When do we serve best? What book in the Bible contains the laws of health as taught by Moses? What are the foundation principles of the home?
Outlines of Guide Lessons for 1916.
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE.
1. Eve.
2. Sarah, Hagar.
3. Rebecca, Rachel, Leah.
4. Deborah, Huldah, Miriam.
5. Ruth.
6. Esther.
7. Jezebel, Delilah, Witch of Endor.
8. Minor characters of the Old Testament: Potiphar's wife, Pharaoh's daughter, Keturah, Aseneth, Hannah, Michal, Abigail, Mizpah.
9. New Testament women: Anna, Elizabeth, Mary and Martha.
10. Mary, the mother of Jesus.
OUTLINES FOR GENEALOGY, 1916.
January — Prepare Individual Sheets. How to write genealogical letters. February — Secure members for the Genealogical Society of Utah. March — Each Relief Society member required to prepare sheets for each member of her family. How to arrange excursions to the Temples. April — Family Associations. Each woman should attend Temple service at least one week during the year in her district. May — Linking the Present to the Past. June — Review of Genealogical Needs. July. August. September — Introduction to Surnames. Why surnames were taken. October — Tribal Names. November — Sire Names. December — Surnames from Legends, Totem Surnames.
ARCHITECTURE OUTLINES FOR 1916.
February. a. The Transition to the Renaissance. b. Elizabethan style. c. Jacobean style.
March. a. Artistic gardening. Leila M. Ann — Devotees and their Shrines, pages 144-149. b. The Dear Old Garden, Dr. Emmeline B. Wells.
April. a. Classic Period. b. The Classic Revivals. c. The Victorian Gothic.
May. Architecture in the United States. a. The Formative Period. b. The Colonial or Georgian Period.
June. a. The early Republican Period. b. The Revivals.
September. a. The War Period. b. The Modern Movement.
October. a. Examples of Recent Architecture.
November. Exhibition of pictures of beautiful architecture. (Give name of architects, if possible.)
December. a. Discuss architecture of the recent Fair at San Francisco, and show pictures of the same. Make a special point of the balance and harmony used in the placing of the buildings.
ART OUTLINES.
March. a. Melting and freezing weather. b. Wind and rain.
April. a. Soaking wet Spring day, colors and values. b. Dry Spring day, colors and values. c. Spring blossoms and winter's snow. d. Out of door party.
May. The May or June walk to note Spring colors and values. Study of fields.
June. Summer day, Balmy weather, Summer twilight.
September. Approach of Fall Indian Summer haze. Fall twilight.
October. Out of door Autumn party.
November. Wet day, foggy weather, purple of bare branches.
December. Skating scenes.
HOME ECONOMICS.
I. The Modern Home. II. The Latter-day Saint Home. III. Home-making as a Profession. a. The home as an economic institution. IV. The Business Side of Home-making. V. The Household Budget and Its Application to Us. a. Standards of living. VI. Organization of Housework. a. Hygiene of housework. VII. Household Wastes and How to Prevent Them. VIII. Co-operative Housekeeping. IX. The Servant Problem. X. The Home Economics Movement and Its Meaning.
Note: The first two lessons may be studied and given in the form of lectures by some one capable of doing so. Two or more societies could unite where possible and secure an outside lecturer. It is difficult to prescribe a cure for any condition unless the cause is known, and its development of the present family life is most interesting.
International Congress of Genealogy.
We copy the following from the Journal of Heredity, November, 1915, an account of our glorious Congress:
The International Congress of Genealogy which met in connection with the Panama-Pacific International Exposition in San Francisco from July 27 to 30, represented sixty-five genealogical, historical, patriotic, heraldic and family associations and had accredited to it about 275 delegates elected by these organizations. In addition, there were many others interested in genealogy, but not officially accredited, who attended the congress. The Utah Genealogical Society sent to the meeting a special train carrying 269 persons from Utah. The program provided that the congress should meet the week following the national convention of the American Historical Association and the week preceding the annual meeting of the American Genetic Association and Second International Conference of Race Betterment. It also provided for meetings in San Francisco of family associations during or as near as possible to the time of the genealogical congress. Some of the latter were held.
This plan and the genealogical congress, first of its kind ever held, were proposed by the Hon. Boutwell Dunlap, of San Francisco, recording secretary of the California Genealogical Society. He first proposed an International Congress of Genealogy and Eugenics. Not desiring to conflict with other eugenic organizations, the name of the congress was later restricted to the International Congress of Genealogy. The invitations to the congress and family associations were issued jointly in the names of the Panama-Pacific International Exposition and the California Genealogical Society.
Some of the organizations that elected delegates to the congress were the National Society of Americans of Royal Descent, Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities, College of Arms and Seigneural Court of Canada, American Society of Colonial Families, New England Historical Genealogical Society, Huguenot Society of America, Louisiana Historical Society, Maine Genealogical Society, Historical Society of New Mexico, Order of Founders and Patriots of America, Society of Genealogists of London, National Genealogical Society, National Society of the Sons and Daughters of the Pilgrims, National Society of Sons of the Revolution.
An International Genealogical Federation was formed and a resolution affecting eugenics, introduced by Mr. Dunlap and unanimously adopted by the congress, was as follows:
"Resolved, that one of the objects of the International Genealogical Federation shall be the collection and preservation of genealogical data for eugenic purposes, and that the committee of organization of said International Genealogical Federation is hereby instructed to provide for the said collection and preservation of genealogical data for eugenic purposes."
Attention To Subscribers
Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 10% discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves.
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
Mothers, educate your daughters — and sons — to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation.
Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.
The Most Interesting, Friends of President Inspiring and Beautiful Emmeline B. Wells Scenic Sections of the West Secure the second edition of her Poems for your ChristARE REACHED VIA mas present.
[UNION PACIFIC LOGO] The book is 336 pages, beautifully bound in blue and Including gold, with two illustrations of Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon the distinguished author, and Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park contains her Ode written at Jackson Hole Country the age of 87, as well as all her Lost River Country poems. Wood River Country The Snake River Price $1.50 Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts On sale at the leading book stores, and by subscription to Pacific Coast Excursions the author. Daily to November 30th
For Descriptive Literature, address D. E. Burley, General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah
MAGAZINE AGENTS, ATTENTION!
Agents should always state whether each subscriber is a renewal or a new subscriber.
Stake Presidents are requested to lend their aid and influence to secure loyal subscription lists for our Magazine. Send in your lists early and often.
Z. C. M. I.
School Shoes For Boys
Are made for service — they keep the boys' feet warm and dry.
Z. C. M. I.
ALLOVERS
are the ideal play garment for boys and girls. Cheap, serviceable.
English and American
ARCHITECTURE
By GEO. M. ALLEN
is in Mrs. Horne's Art Book,
DEVOTEES AND THEIR SHRINES.
Send to this office or to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned.
PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID
It's FREE — send for the little book "Cameos"
Three thousand words on Cameos
Not a Catalogue, but an interesting, instructive article on Cameos
The only book of its kind published
W. M. McCONAHAY, Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
Cameos in Rings, Scarf Pins, Neck Chains and Brooches, write about them
There is Only One Best Way To Do Anything
Are YOU efficient, or do you THINK you are?
Do you THINK you DESIRE to be EFFICIENT?
Do you THINK it HARD ENOUGH, and is your DESIRE STRONG ENOUGH to carry you through to efficiency?
When you TRAVEL do you do so EFFICIENTLY or HAPHAZARDLY?
The EFFICIENT TRAVELER plans his trip, ascertains what points of interest he is allowed to visit without extra expense — knows that his ticket carries him to all the points of interest he desires to visit.
The EFFICIENT traveler is sure that his ticket reads over the line that insures him Safety, Service, Scenery, Convenience, Comfort and Courtesy, the
SOUTHERN PACIFIC
INVESTIGATE AND PLAN
For full information, personal attention, carefully planned itineraries and beautifully illustrated literature about CALIFORNIA, call in or write the
SOUTHERN PACIFIC OFFICE, Second Floor, Walker Bank Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Office where They KNOW All About CALIFORNIA.
We particularly desire to wish a VERY MERRY CHRISTMAS and an EXCEPTIONALLY PROSPEROUS NEW YEAR to the MEMBERS of the GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY who journeyed over our lines on the Excursion to California this year.
C. L. McFAUL, District Passenger Agent, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Mid-winter Excursion TO CALIFORNIA
December 27, 1915
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY, 1916 No. 2
SPECIAL ARTICLES
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL Pres., Emmeline B. Wells as a Mother
WHEN DREAMS COME TRUE Ruth Moench Bell
HOME ECONOMICS DEPARTMENT Janette A. Hyde
QUERY BOX Hazel Love Dunford
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year — Single Copy 10c
Established 1877 Phone Was. 1370
STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY
100 Calling Cards Engraved For $1.50, Postage Paid
Everyone should have a nice calling card, and we want you to call on us for same
Pembroke Company The Home of Fine Stationery and Engraving 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah
Kindly mention this magazine when ordering
When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct
The Relief Society Magazine
Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
CONTENTS. FEBRUARY, 1916.
Introspection Nellie Beecraft 61 Mothers in Israel 63 Echo of the Genealogical Congress 71 When Dreams Come True Ruth Moench Bell 72 Temple Hymn Lucy May Green 79 A Testimony Lucy May Green 80 A Prayer Edith McClendon 81 My Testimony Concerning Temple Work Lerona A. Wilson 82 Home Economics Department Janette A. Hyde 85 A Prince of Ur Homespun 91 Current Topics James H. Anderson 101 Query Box Hazel Love Dunford 104 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 106
EDITORIAL: Efficiency 109 Guide Lessons 111
ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY.
Patronize those who advertise with us.
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City. MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. PEMBROKE CO., STATIONERY, 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J., Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City. THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City. TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St., Salt Lake City. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City.
To help busy mothers select the right kind of books for their children is one of our greatest pleasures. Write to us — we'll help you.
DESERET Sunday School Union BOOK STORE 44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah
Put That Idle Dollar to Work
If you haven't a bank account, take that idle dollar and bring or mail it to this bank and start a savings account. Everybody should be saving a little, if it is only one dollar a week. This amount will grow with interest into surprising proportions if continued systematically for a reasonable length of time.
Work is plentiful now; crops have been big. While good times last, save for a future day when work will be harder to get. We will add 4 per cent to your savings.
"The Bank with a Personality"
Merchant's Bank Capital $250,000 Member of Salt Lake Clearing House
John Pingree, Pres.; Chas. E. Kaiser, V. P.; Moroni Heiner, V. P.; A. H. Peabody, Cashier; Radcliffe, G. Cannon, D. R. Pingree, Asst. Cashiers
Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City
SALT LAKE'S LADY FLORIST
Mrs. Emma J. Sanders 278 South Main Street
Phone Wasatch 2815
Schramm-Johnson No. 5
Salt Lake City, Utah
Burial Insurance in the
Beneficial Life Insurance Company
The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this.
Relief Society Headquarters or
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. RELIEF SOCIETY DEPARTMENT HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Established 1860 Incorporated 1908
It is the purpose of this Bank at all times to render helpful service and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant.
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK SALT LAKE CITY
Your Account is Cordially Invited
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres.
S. M. TAYLOR & Co. Undertakers and Embalmers
SUCCESSORS TO Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West
53 Years in One Location
251-257 E. First South Street Salt Lake City, Utah
Efficient Service, Modern Methods, Complete Equipment
Introspection.
Dear Angel of years, write me two score and ten, Now, of deeds good or ill, what sayest thy pen? My record — which greater, the gain or the loss? Of which am I reaping, the gold or the dross?
In the springtime of life did I fully prepare The soil of my soul gospel fruitage to bear? And though seed time came late, have I labored the more To cultivate, weed, and thus add to my store?
Am I learning the rules of life's lesson aright, Or turning the page where 'tis hardest to fight? Have I learned that through conflict our powers increase? That for what we toil hardest, our love will ne'er cease?
Do I thank God, not only for what He bestows, But for what He withholds? For most surely He knows Of which portion to give for this weakness, that pain Which if taken in meekness will prove for my gain.
O Father, Thou knowest my yearnings and fears; To Thee, too, are known all my pleadings and tears; E'en my innermost thoughts are all known unto Thee. O help me, dear Father, thy true Saint to be!
NELLIE BEECRAFT. OGDEN, UTAH.
Mrs. Isabel Modalena Mrs. Melvina Caroline Whitney-Sears Whitney-Woods.
Elizabeth Ann Wells-Cannon
PRES. EMMELINE B. WELLS AND HER FIVE DAUGHTERS.
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. III. FEBRUARY, 1916. No. 2.
Mothers in Israel.
In this series of articles, we now present the name and portrait of our honored President Emmeline B. Wells. February is her birth month, and it is fitting that we link her thus to this day and time. We have all heard and known much of Sister Wells as a writer and publicist, but few outside of her immediate circle know what a wonderful contribution she has made to the Church and to her country through her numerous and able posterity. Practically all of her descendants are superior in intellect; many of the daughters are very fair to look upon.
President Wells had one son born in Nauvoo, who died in infancy. She was the former wife of the then presiding Bishop of the Church — Bishop Newel K. Whitney, by whom she had two lovely daughters, Isabel and Melvina. The oldest — Isabel — who afterwards married the well-known public citizen, Septimus W. Sears, was born in a wagon on the block where now stands the Hotel Utah. Mrs. Sears has had eight children and seven grandchildren. She is spending the later years of her life in free and happy service in the Salt Lake Temple, where she is honored and loved by all her associates. Her sister, Mrs. Mell Woods, has had five children and has five grandchildren. She also has always been fair to look upon, and is a leader in social and literary circles in her home in northern Idaho.
One of her daughters — Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon — is locally famous as a gifted writer, an excellent public speaker, a wise legislator and publicist, a devoted mother of twelve splendid sons and daughters and eleven grandchildren. She is the mother and grandmother of twin boys, whose picture we here present. Mrs. Cannon kindly has prepared the accompanying poetic pen-picture of her mother, as a mother.
All of the children and grandchildren of Mrs. Wells possess marked literary and artistic ability, and all are proof of the law of inheritance. The two daughters who died in their young womanhood, were prominent figures in the life of this pioneer city and state — "Emmie," as she was familiarly known, being a leader in the young circle which formed the old Wasatch Literary Society. She was beloved of all who knew her. "Louie" was as beautiful and gifted a girl as ever graced a mortal home. None who ever saw or

knew her but admired and loved her with unspeakable affection none can forget or cease to love her. Both were gifted singers, and Louie was acknowledged to be one of Utah's finest contralto singers. We are pleased to present the full list of our remarkable President's gifts to the world, the Church, and the nation:
Mrs. Wells had one son born in Nauvoo, who died in infancy. She had two daughters, as has been said, by Bishop Whitney, Isabel and Melvina. After the death of Bishop Whitney in the Valley, she married Daniel H. Wells. By him she had three daughters Emmeline, Annie, and Louise. Her oldest daughter, Isabel Modelena Whitney, married Septimus W. Sears, April, 1869, and their children were as follows: Sidney Whitney, Herbert Whitney, Isabel S., Septimus Whitney, Lucile L., Emma W., Eugene S., and Brenton M. E. Isabel S. married Charles W. F. Buckholz and three children were born: Marian, Lucile, Hermann. Septimus married Esther Julian; one boy, Sidney R. Emma W. married John Gillette Roberts; two children, Margaret and Ruth. Brenton M. E., married Inez Vean Sant and has one child Robert. Eugene S. married Eleanor Isabel Rhein. — Mrs. Wells' second daughter Melvina Caroline Whitney married Wm. Woods, and their children were as follows: Daisie D., Verona M., Leslie and Winnifred I. and Percival. Daisie married Harry Allen and had two children — Martin and Thomas. Verona M. married Barrymore Nugent Hillard and had the following children: Helen, Robert and Barrymore. Emmeline and Louise died in their young womanhood, beloved and mourned by all. Annie Wells married John Q. Cannon, and their children are: George Q. Cannon, Louie C. Andrew, Margaret C. Clayton, Daniel H. Cannon, Eleanor Wells Cannon (deceased), Emmeline C. Martineau, Cavendish W. Cannon, Katharine Cannon, Abram H. Cannon, David W. Cannon, John Q. Cannon, Jr., and Theodore L. Cannon. The grandchildren are as follows: George Q. Cannon, Jr., Woodward D. Cannon, Shirley Cannon, Richard C. Andrew, Denton C. Andrew, Elizabeth Andrew, John Q. Andrew, William D. Clayton, Ruth Clayton, Sarah Clayton and Mary Martineau (deceased).
66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
AN INTIMATE SKETCH OF HOME LIFE.
On the twenty-ninth of the current month the venerable president of the Relief Society, and the subject of this sketch, will have attained the ripe age of eighty-eight years, almost a century of life, filled to the very limit with wonderful experiences and activity. One who has given so very much of her time and talents in public service is thought of largely, if not entirely, in a public way, and yet the very sweetest and most delightful touches of her nature are those of home life, where, in that broad and tender field, her spirit shone in untrammeled and perfect motherhood. It is not to me an easy task to draw aside the curtain and disclose home pictures. An innate delicacy, deep sentiment and peculiar sensitiveness surrounds the home life, making it too sacred a thing for public view in every family; especially do I think this true in this particular instance, because there has been so marked a difference between her public and her private life, and because those traits and high ideals, which at the same time allow public service, shield with equal zeal the innermost thoughts and activities of the home. It is, therefore, with a degree of hesitancy, and yet with the most tender and sympathetic feeling, that I comply with the request to give to the readers of The Relief Society Magazine some glimpses into the home life of my mother. Like the princess in the fascinating fairy tale, "The Sleeping Beauty," I would ask you, dear reader, to close your eyes and go with me into the realm of memory. Memory, after all, is more or less a fairy tale, because all the sorrows and trials and pains, are so mellowed with time that their sharp points are cut away, and the grayness and mist of years make them sacred and beautiful, while the joys and pleasures and delights shine with even brighter luster. 'Twas New Year's Eve. The younger children had at last retired, leaving rather reluctantly, because they knew full well that the living room would soon be a scene of pleasant entertainment and good cheer for the older members of the household, as they waited for the sound of bells and whistles which would usher in another cycle of time. The coals glowed brightly in the big fire place, and the odor of bayberry candle, burning according to old New England custom down to the socket, filled the room with fragrant incense. Just the hour and environment for sweet recollections and fond memories to throng the mind and as we waited and looked at the very pretty little figure of mother, sitting close to the hearth, looking into the tumbling red coals, we knew something rich and entertaining was in her thought.
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 67
Reverently we closed our books when mother began to speak: "We, in our New England home, always made a great deal of New Year's and Thanksgiving. It was then we feasted and gave our presents, when I was a little girl." "But," I asked, "what did you do on Christmas?" "Oh, we kept Christmas just like Sunday, a very sober, solemn occasion. I believe the big parlor used to be opened, and we were allowed to go in and read. I had a perfect horror of that parlor, because it was always kept closed to us children, except on Sundays, and holidays, and even as a little child I made up my mind that when I owned a home, no room would be too good for the children." "It never was, mother, I'm sure of that, nor anything of yours because with you it was always the children first, and my, what splendid things you used to do for us! But the best of all were the songs and poems you taught us while you sat sewing or mending, and we played around you. Do you know when I first started to school I could recite 'Lochinvar's Ride,' 'Twenty Years Ago,' 'Bingen on The Rhine,' and ever so many other pretty poems, and my little friends thought me wonderful. When my teacher asked me where I learned these things she thought you wonderful, and came to borrow your books to use in the school, only to find that in the rich storehouse of your mind were the beautiful songs and verses you had taught your children." "Yes," she replied, "memory is a good substitute for books when one has had to leave them on the way, as I did. I felt worse to leave my books than any other of my belongings, when we were driven from Nauvoo, and in those days there were not many books either, like there are now. That is one thing I always have tried to teach you children, to have a love and care for good books. Once I loaned a Bible, it was just a small Bible, bound in yellow leather, and when I got it back there were some leaves torn out and do you know I was so indignant that I never loaned that family another thing! Perhaps, after all, that had a good effect, for they were continually borrowing everything, and I never could refuse the worst of neighbors the least little thing, if I had it to lend." "Perhaps," I ventured to say, "you generously needed a shock, for I well remember seeing you sew one night by a dip-light while your neighbor, giving a party, was using your last two tallow candles in your best and only candlesticks." "Goodness me, the sewing I used to do by those dreadful dip-lights, rows upon rows of fine tucking for shirt bosoms for Bishop Whitney, and the boys, Horace and Orson, and such tucks and ruffles as we used to put in our baby clothes — whipping, overcasting, hemming, and running stitches with the finest of needles —I don't suppose you girls could even thread them now."
68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
"No," I laughed, "the sewing machine is good enough for me in these rushing days but you taught your girls to sew as beautifully as you did yourself; only, hand sewing now is an art, not a necessity." Slowly she rose, that graceful little woman, and walked across the room to look out upon the night and, standing there in the bow of the window holding back the holly-draped curtains, which fell in folds around her, it was like a framed picture of the long ago — her beautiful hair, as white as the feathery snow without, which the wind was piling in huge drifts against the fences, crowning her furrowed face which, as she turned, was expressive of the thoughts within. "Sometimes," she said, "I feel like 'the last leaf upon the tree,' when I think that scarcely any of the friends of my generation are left to recall with me the days that are gone. There was Mother Whitney, then Louisa, Martha, Lydia Ann and Hannah, women with whom I lived in closest intimacy, closer than sisters, rearing our children in the same household, all gone and your father, too, all save Susan and myself, and both of us nearly ninety. Then the beloved friends with whom so many years I worked in the Relief Society: Sister Eliza, Aunt Zina, Sister Kimball, Aunt Bathsheba, Sister Richards, Sister Horne, and oh, so many others whose names I now recall, and whom I loved as much as if bound by kindred ties, closer, perhaps, because our faith and work were so in tune with our every day life. They all are gone, and you, the women of this generation, speak of me as the link between the present and the past." "Well, grandma," said one of the boys, "you're sure a precious link, all set with brilliants which illumine this generation and generations yet to come." The sweet face brightened with this little flattering hurt, as in less sober accents she said: "Speaking of illuminations, you remember, of course, the night June came home from his mission, and the big house at the head of Main Street was illuminated with rows of candles in every window, in honor of the event. People came from all over the city just to see the illumination. Compare that with what we see now, when every night on top of the Templeton, where the old house stood, there are rows of wonderful lights of which no one thinks at all." "Why," asked one of the boys, "illuminate because June came home?" "Because," she quietly answered, again seating herself, "June was the first of all the boys in the family to go on a mission, and every mother in the family was just as interested as if he were her own son. That is the way we taught our children, that each brother and sister was just as dear and precious as those of their own mother, and occasions like this brought us all together in
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 69
closer harmony. He came about seven o'clock, and there was to be a big family dinner in the long dining room. I remember I had been cooking all day." "Oh, grandma," one of the girls interrupted, "you never cooked!" "Indeed, I did, though I must say I never liked cooking very much. Still I always made the dough-nuts for these parties, and prepared the dishes of baked beans. I suppose that's because of my New England training." "Well," I said, "your dough-nuts were the best ever, and so were your 'apple fritters' and 'minute pudding' goodness, mother, I had almost forgotten, myself, that you knew how to cook!" "Well," one of the boys remarked, "you surely had accomplishments. I wish we had some of those fritters now." "Perhaps if you had, they wouldn't seem so good compared with the fine fruit cake, mince pies, and other things you have today. It's like the candle to this wonderful electric light which with a touch of the button illuminates a room to a hundred candle power." Continuing, she said: "I wonder if you remember the front room in the old house before it was remodeled, and the fireplace with the andirons? Those old andirons were my mother's, brought all the way from Massachusetts." "Yes, I guess I do," I answered; "it was on that chimney place we hung our stockings and in front of that fireplace you read to us and taught us how to read, and it was there you taught us how to pray. They talk of kindergartens in these days, as if it were a new method. I think, mother, you always had the method of teaching every thing as if it were play instead of work. You made it all so interesting. That is how the history of our people seems so much a part of us, because when you were busy with your house-work or sewing, at the same time you would tell us such beautiful stories, not always, but often church history, and with it all such wonderful testimonies of the gospel that we can never forget but must needs carry in our memories and tell again to our children. In your quiet way there was always so much reverence and respect for those in authority, when you mentioned their names, that I used to approach the men and women who were leaders in the Church with awe, almost fear, because I deemed them so much greater and better than we were. I am glad of that, glad in my heart that at your knee and from your teaching I learned the proper respect for the authority of the priesthood and the reverence due to those whose age and position entitle them to such respect." "But," puts in thoughtful Louise, "when you began your
70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
editorship and public work, these things must have changed?" "Oh no, not much you see the older girls were married, and the younger ones were in school all day, and with a good maid at home I think I had more time than ever with my girls, for if they were not helping me in the office I was helping them with their studies. Then as they grew up, our home was a delightful gathering place for young people. Do you know, children, three literary societies have been organized in my home, the first, the Wasatch Literary Society, which is sometimes spoken of as a forerunner of the Mutual Improvement Association? That's where your Uncle Ort and Uncle Bud began their literary work, and your Uncle Hebe and Laron Cummings and others first discovered their histrionic ability. We had some accomplishments in our own family, too, the girls could play and sing and recite, and they brought to the home some of the brightest and finest girls and boys in the community." "But, grandma, did you stay in the room with the young folks all the time?" asked an inquisitive youth. "Yes, if I wanted to we used to have some very fine times, playing intellectual games —not cards and nonsense like you do now, and we used to have some very amusing and entertaining conversations. Then after I had my little paper, my office was a place where numberless inquiring strangers came to learn of our people it was like a bureau of information and among them have been many distinguished men and women whom it has been my great pleasure to invite to my home and introduce to my girls. Let me see, what was the name of that beautiful southern woman writer? Oh, yes, Madam Lavere she was perfectly delighted because I gave her a glimpse of a 'Mormon' household, and she wrote me a delightful letter afterward thanking me for the opportunity; and so did Kate Tannet Woods, Edmund Russell, Kate Field, and many others; and these things no doubt were rather nice occasions for my girls, but not half the education nor the value that the beautiful little meetings were which the sisters often held in my house, and where you were permitted to be present and to hear the glorious testimonies borne by Sister Horne, and Sister Eliza Snow, and the rich history told by Sarah M. Kimball, Sarepta Heywood, Elizabeth Howard, and others; and the wonderful singing of Mother Whitney, with its beautiful interpretation by Aunt Zina." "Yes, I know, mother dear, and all these privileges I hope I ever will be grateful for, but more grateful still that I have such a wonderful little woman for a mother, whose great dower to her children, her testimony of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the teachings to them of the gospel of Jesus Christ, has made them rich in deed, and whose tender sympathy and strength of purpose have never failed them, in sorrow or in joy; and who, among her many graces and accomplishments, can
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 71
boast of a loving posterity of six children, twenty-five grandchildren and twenty-five great-grandchildren to rise and call her blessed. But goodness, the whistles are blowing! It's a happy New Year to you, and now, good night and pleasant dreams." As wide awake as ever, she answers, "It is good morning, and the dreams — well, I've shown you some pictures, any way."
Annie Wells Cannon.
ECHO OF THE GENEALOGICAL CONGRESS.
We are still in close touch with our recent Genealogical Congress in San Francisco, this time through the January issue of the Utah Genealogical Magazine, which contains the proceedings of Utah Genealogical Day, at the Exposition. That was indeed an epochal day for Utah. And we suggest to our readers that they secure this number of the Genealogical Magazine, for it is full of vitally interesting matter for us all. We have often been asked why we did not include the picture of the genial and able railroad official—— Mr. C. L. McFaul who managed the details of our excursion so successfully and delightfully. We, therefore, present to you, with our mutual congratulations and good will, Mr. Charles L. McFaul. Mr. McFaul, the ladies of the Relief Society! Mr. McFaul was all that other accommodating and capable railroad men are and more. There were many tiresome problems, many unlooked-for complications, much unnecessary trouble caused, which most men would have dismissed with a careless or curt word. Not so with Mr. McFaul. He was courteous and helpful under even the most trying conditions, and stimulated everyone else to be likewise, through his unfailing good humor and patience. We shall not soon forget the gentleman nor the debt of gratitude we owe him. We call particular attention to the article on the work done by the Relief Society Extension Department in genealogy, in the Utah Genealogical Magazine, for this will be the foundation for our future historians who will turn with close interest to the genesis of a movement which has begun, but which will never end while time lasts. We are at the threshold of mighty events.
When Dreams Come True.
By Ruth Moench Bell.
A change had come over Harriet Cheevers. Something new had come into her life. That was evident to even near-sighted Mrs. Priest. There was something on the familiar face that baffled analysis. So long the little group of women had sewed together that the slightest deviation from accustomed ways was at once detected. One week ago the same carelessness in personal appearance, the result of long acquaintance and lack of incentive, was as apparent in Mrs. Cheevers as in the other members of the sewing circle. Now she looked as fresh and dainty as a girl and several years younger than usual.
It was with some surprise that the women noticed that Harriet was almost pretty. Was it the soft, creamy tie she was wearing, or the extra brushing her hair had received that made it soft and fluffy, or was it the new expression of purpose and renewed joy of living in her face, that made it lovely? One member of the sewing circle, however, was not speculating on the new tie or the fluffy hair or the kindled expression. Mrs. Jones, mother of the mayor of North Hammond, saw a secret lurking in the depths of her friend's eyes, and she yearned to take her by the shoulders and shake it out of her. Mrs. Jones had a nose for mystery, and disliked being kept in suspense concerning it. "What's come over you, Harriet," she asked abruptly. "Somebody died and left you a fortune?" "Nobody has died and left me one," Mrs. Cheevers laid down her tatting and partially enlightened them "but somebody did come to life and bequeath me one." Mrs. Cheevers resumed her tatting with the same preoccupied aloofness that had so puzzled the women that afternoon. "For pity sake explain yourself, Harriet," Mrs. Jones urged impatiently. "It doesn't sound quite sane." "It isn't anything much," Mrs. Cheevers explained modestly, "And perhaps you won't be interested. I've been reading this week about a woman fifty years old who started in to get a college education after her children were all reared." "Did she get it?" Mrs. Jones probed. "She got it," Mrs. Cheevers declared triumphantly, "And she earned the money to pay for it right out of her vegetable and flower garden, and by making crocheted and knitted shawls and
WHEN DREAMS COME TRUE. 73
bootees and lace. She got all the college extension work she could, and finally they put her in charge of some experiments. And now she is one of the most successful women in the country." "I don't see what that has to do with you," Mrs. Jones sniffed, still trying to dig a little deeper into the mystery. "It has just this to do with me," Mrs. Cheevers replied. "It set me thinking. Our doctrine is the doctrine of Eternal Progression. And here I have perhaps twenty-five more years in which to progress right here on earth. And I've been sitting around thinking of nothing but my aches and pains, and waiting for death when I might have been growing and developing and improving myself." "Tell us more about this woman," Mrs. Priest begged. "There isn't much more to tell," Mrs. Cheevers went on. "She's fond of games." "I don't see how they will improve her much," Mrs. Jones protested. "That is just where I am going to begin to improve," Mrs. Cheevers laughed. "I never did have enough fun. It seems like we were young such a short time, and old such a long time. And then we married so much younger than folks do nowadays. While the children were with me I often longed to go out and play with them but there was always something to be done. I can see now that I would have been a better mother if I had joined in their play as they often coaxed me to do. I'd have loosened up some of the laughter that lay under the crust of seriousness that covered up my smiles and light-heartedness. Why games and dancing were the very things that saved the sanity of the pioneers, amid all their hardships. Laughter helped to lighten their load laughter and prayers and songs of thanksgiving, of course." A hush had fallen over the group and Mrs. Cheevers resumed her tatting. But she was too full of the achievements of this other mature woman and her own plans and renewed ambitions to keep silent long till she had shared it all with her friends. "There is another thing I am going to do. You know how interesting our studies on Utah artists and their works have been? Well, I'm going to follow these studies with the life and works of all the leading artists of the world. If I'd had one speck of talent or opportunity I believe I'd have tried to paint when I was a girl. But I am not going to give up now till I know all about the finest paintings and the lives and methods of the painters." Mrs. Morgan looked up as if a sudden inspiration had come to her. She changed her mind, and did not speak but her thoughts were of a certain organ, silent since the children had married,
74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
that might help her to realize her dreams. She had always yearned to play. "And I am going to begin to learn now," she told herself with resolution. "I believe God gives us these last long, leisurely years so we can fulfill some of the many desires crowded out of the carefree time of youth, and the crowded period of middle life. This is our chance to make our dreams come true." "I believe you are right, Harriet," Mrs. Jones sighed, under the spell of the early dreams now long forgotten. "Still none of it explains why you are 'all dolled up,' as my grandchildren say." "It is the influence of this eager woman again," Mrs. Cheevers laughed. "She said that the first thing she set about to do after she had made up her mind that she had something to do, even if the children were all married and gone, was to make her body as happy, healthy, clean and attractive as possible and her personal appearance as dainty and neat as she could. She says that care and pride in one's person, especially when one is getting along in years, is evidence of a high order of self-respect, and helps one to keep young and attractive. She calls it well-groomed." "Groomed," Mrs. Jones sniffed. "Groomed! Is she a mare or a woman?" Mrs. Cheevers bit her lip. She realized that she had roused Mrs. Jones, who always took umbrage at remarks on neatness whether they were meant for her or not. Mrs. Jones sniffed again, and glanced down at her apron, which was, to say the least, slightly soiled. She had explained that it was wash-day as she came in. Besides, it was one of her proudest boasts that she had made no difference in her habits since her son had become Mayor. Still she would have given considerable, then, to have slipped the apron into her sewing-bag unobserved. And for any notice that would have been taken of the act, she might have done so. Each woman was busy with a personal inventory of herself and her apparel, that left her, for the moment, unaware of any flaws in her sisters. On the other side of Mrs. Jones, Mrs. Lochart sat gazing absently into space. A glimpse into her thought-factory would have elicited the information that her shoe-laces were broken in several places, and tied together in knots, more or less neat, with frayed edges showing. Mrs. Lochart was remembering also that her shoes had not been blacked for some time. In fact, the more she thought of it the more convinced she became that her shoes had not been blacked since she bought them. She drew her feet further under her skirts, and hoped that her action had been unobtrusive. She would not have liked Mrs. Morgan to wonder why. Mrs. Morgan would not have wondered, for reasons already suggested. Mrs. Morgan had taken advantage of the long silence
WHEN DREAMS COME TRUE. 75
and averted eyes to take a peep at her nails. Her worst fears were confirmed, and she slipped her hands under the shawl she had been knitting. A dried rim of dough was visible at the base of each nail. She had not gone over her nails after putting the bread into loaves, but merely washed and dried her hands and hastened to the sewing circle. Mrs. Priest was occupied with curling her finger tips into the palm of her hand to hide the ragged tips of her gloves. She enjoyed working in the garden, and often forgot to wear heavy gloves while about such work. Conscious of the condition of her hands, she had brought no sewing and kept her gloves on. Her one thought now was whether Mrs. Alton had noticed the holes in her gloves. She need not have concerned herself. A frayed petticoat, whose flounce was secured with a safety-pin, was occupying Mrs. Alton's mind to the exclusion of everything else. Leave-takings were rather hasty, for reasons connected with the inner processes of each woman's mind. "You meet with me next time," Mrs. Cheevers reminded them. Unconsciously each woman glanced at Mrs. Cheever's nails, as her fingers slid in and out putting her tatting into her sewing-bag and slipping the ribbons over her wrist. The nails were pink-tipped and perfectly manicured. They had never differed so essentially from the other woman's before. "I suppose Harriet is getting ready to emulate this perfect type of mature woman," Mrs. Jones told herself, as she approached Mrs. Cheevers' for the next meeting. "If it were not for giving the impression that I'm ashamed of myself I'd not go today. Perfectly 'Groomed'," she exhumed; for the word had been literally burned in her heart the entire week. It was a relief to expel it. Nevertheless she continued on her way with the comfortable assurance that no one could pick any flaws with her attire. She had made several concessions which she secretly hoped would pass unnoticed. The extra brushing she had given her hair as well as the curl which she found becoming to her forehead might attract attention. Yet she let it stay. Arriving at Mrs. Cheevers' from various directions, an astonished group of women stood stone still for there on the spacious lawn, a glow on her cheeks, laughter on her lips, industriously batting at an elusive ball sported their hostess. "Why Harriet Cheevers," Mrs. Jones exploded. "You'll run yourself to death. You aren't a girl any more." Mrs. Cheevers came up breathless and radiant to receive her guests. "I sent for my niece to come and teach me to play tennis,"
76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
she explained, "and I thought we might as well have a game while you were coming." "You'll pay for this tomorrow," Mrs. Priest croaked enviously, "You'll probably be laid up all day." "Oh, we've been at it for a week," Mrs. Cheevers laughed. "I did feel pretty lame at first. But I'm standing it all right now. Do you mind if we have some more games this afternoon? I found a set of dominoes, an old checker-board and a deck of flinch up in the attic." Nobody minded and many a merry laugh startled lips that had forgotten the flavor of smiles. Long after dusk the guests left for their homes. Each seemed absorbed in highly interesting plans. It was a very purposeful group of women that went to their beds that night, as eager for dawn to come, that they might put their plans into effect, as they had been as children. Mrs. Cheevers had set them thinking. And they could see that they had each cherished some desire of achievement, and now they meant to work to attain it instead of regretting that they had never had the opportunity. And in seeking it they began to realize that there would come into their lives, instead of a long, cheerless fall hastened too soon, prolonged too wearily, a rich, warm Indian Summer, lasting and lingering and breaking into a sweet, peaceful winter. Several croquet sets and other discarded games were brought down from sundry attics that week. Women who had long since been too old to play, loosened their crippled joints and forgot their pain in the excitement of old games. "If Harriet Cheevers can learn to play tennis at her age, I'm not too old to play croquet," Mrs. Lochart remarked, and the others were of the same mind. "If Betty Morgan is not too old to study music, and can earn the money to pay for her lessons," Maggie Priest told herself, "I guess I can study history and buy my own books. I've always wanted to ever since my Frank used to rehearse his lessons to me. If my back yard won't yield enough garden sage to supply the butchers and grocers, so they won't have to ship in any more of that tasteless stuff they've been handling, I want to know the reason why. It's too late for asters but the florist says he gets quantities every fall, and he will buy all the tulips, and hyacinths and daffodils I can raise in the spring. So I guess I can buy all the books I shall need." "Hortense Alton has sold a piece of her lot," Mrs. Jones called over to Betty Morgan one day. "Tom Gunnell has been trying to buy it for years and at last she has cut it loose. She is going to take the money and go to California for a trip, this winter. She is as gay as a girl at the prospects. And here she has
WHEN DREAMS COME TRUE. 77
been getting ready to die for the last ten years!" Two weeks skipped by, and the mayor of North Hammond happened in to see his mother. He found her in a white apron, as white as her freshly washed hair. She was sewing crocheted lace on a night-gown. "Who is going to get married now," he laughed as his delighted eyes noted the change in his mother's apparel. "Who is the happy bride?" "I am," she retorted, transfixing him with a gay laugh. "Mother," he gasped, "then who is the happy groom?" "Old Age, Tom, just Old Age. I've always been afraid of him, and run from him. But he has been tramping on my heels so long that at last I've turned around to embrace him. I believe Harriet Cheevers is right. She says Old Age is the dearest friend we have, if we only use wisely the leisure he grants us. She says he gives us the chance to make all our dreams come true. You see in youth we are so set on getting married that we only dream about what we should like to do some day. In middle life we can't find time. That is why Old Age is so generous with time. He gives us the opportunity to do all we once thought we wished to do." The mayor of North Hammond looked at his mother through a mist that did not often veil his eyes. He felt as if he had met her for the first time and was scarcely worthy of an acquaintance. In fact, his feeling was even holier than that. It was as if he had bolted into a sanctuary and ought to be down on his knees before this mother whom he had once wished would take a little pride in herself. He felt guilty and conscience-smitten at the recollection. "I've never cared for travel like Hortense Alton does. I haven't a bit of talent for music. History bores me to death. But I've got to find some interest in life, so I can grow young like the others are. I've thought it all out, and I've come to the conclusion that the thing I'm most deficient in is just plain house-keeping. And I guess I've got as good a right to 'doll myself up' as Harriet Cheevers has. If I'm going to marry Old Age and live with him for a good many years, I'm going to dress to please him, and keep house to please him. I'll have to be a lot more careful and particular than I used to be when I was younger and more attractive.” Mrs. Jones had not dared to confess her housekeeping limitations to her friends. It was a relief to have her son to confide in. "Come here, Tom," Mrs. Jones led the way into her little pantry. "See those shelves." Mayor Jones looked at the shelves and pantry, all newly painted white. He remembered when, as a boy, he brought a friend in for a spread and longed to turn the hose loose on those same shelves and make them more inviting.
78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Then she led the way into the bed-room and pulled out the dresser drawers. "Look at those drawers," and she pointed with pride at the neat piles of freshly ironed linen. Again Mayor Jones' memory led him backward. He was a boy again, and rummaging in those same drawers in which an end of almost anything might be seen sticking up as one opened the drawer. "You are a wonder, Mother," he exclaimed proudly, as he folded her in his arms. "Some women at your age would be moping around complaining of their aches and pains, and expecting somebody to wait on them and be sorry when they died." It was Mrs. Jones' turn to be uncomfortable. "That is precisely what I was doing, boy, a few weeks ago, when something pricked my pride and got me started right. It was that word 'groomed' that Harriet Cheevers used, I believe. It kind of got under my feathers at first. People used to have so much to say about my bad house-keeping, and untidy dress, that I just naturally flared up when anything was said on the subject. It used to bother me considerably; but it seemed as if I hadn't the knack, so I quit trying and pretended I didn't care, just to defy them." Mayor Jones suppressed a smile at this revelation of the internal workings behind the external expression with which he was only too familiar. "That word 'groomed' was as annoying as a fly walking over my upper lip. It fretted me until I gradually became unaware of its existence. About that time it occurred to me how delightfully fresh and frisky a horse must feel after it is well curried and brushed. I suppose I used to be like the over-worked plough horse whose master couldn't take time to brush and curry it and pick the burrs out of its mane. Now I can't help wishing they could invent some way to brush a horse's teeth so its mouth could feel cool and refreshed as mine does after the tooth-duty I once couldn't find time for. I could never believe the glow of pride that goes over one when we begin and close the day well-groomed. It is easier to pray and the prayer seems more effective, if we have made the flesh more fitting for the spirit." The mayor of North Hammond turned his eyes from the vision of this new mother, once so self-sufficient, now so appealing in her wistful humility. "So the little mother is indulging herself in a perfect orgy of house-keeping, and 'dolling herself up'." He pressed her hand to divert her thoughts from the catch in his voice that would come at sight of the mother of sixty years satisfying her suppressed ambitions while yet life lasted. "Why it is as exciting as a game," she laughed. "Every
WHEN DREAMS COME TRUE. 79
day I find some new way to be more particular and efficient, and it is real fun. If only —" and there was a catch in the mother's voice as she controlled herself and went on, "if only your father were here. I can see now that he wanted to be proud of me in every way. Well, maybe I'll have a chance, on the other side, to show him the improvement I've made since he left me here." Mayor Jones folded his mother in his arms again. Her thoughts were precisely what his had been. It was a solemn moment for both. The next day a box of roses came for Mrs. Jones with the compliments of her son and the wish that time and strength might be hers to make every dream come true. There was also a substantial check with the suggestion that she take some friend, widowed like herself, to a temple city where both could enjoy some spiritual work. Meanwhile five other mature women, grown suddenly young, were finding it "real fun" to break their own records and realize dreams. A new zest brightened the meetings of The Relief Society and sewing circle of North Hammond. Aches and pains were far off and forgotten themes. History, music, travel, art, new recipes, new patterns for bootees and shawls, pin-money methods and markets, were absorbing themes. And, side by side with thoughts of the hereafter, strode the thought to prepare more worthily here.
TEMPLE HYMN.
By Lucy May Green.
In thy service, Heavenly Father, we thy children meet today. Bless us with Thy Holy Spirit, aid us in our work, we pray. We are thankful for thy gospel, for thy blessed truth and love. May we ever be found faithful, never from thy pathway rove. Purify our hearts, our Father, as we promise unto thee All our life, our time, and talents, until death shall set us free. May our lives be pure and holy may we never go astray; Ever strive to do our duty, walking in the narrow way, Until life on earth is over. Faithful to the end may we Dwell with thee in heavenly mansions, throughout all eternity.
A Testimony.
(This happened in March, 1897; it was written at the time it occurred, and was a wonderful experience and testimony.)
By Lucy May Green.
Evening on the Atlantic ocean. Calm and peaceful were the skies which were illuminated by the glorious rays of the setting sun. The wind had ceased blowing and the waves, which had been rising mountain high, had now sunk to a peaceful calm. The passengers of the steamship Circassia were strolling the deck, or sitting in groups in their deck-chairs. Some were discussing the progress the ship had made during the afternoon, and were eagerly counting the days that must elapse ere they could reach their distant homes, far away in the West. Others were admiring the glorious cloud picture, as the golden sun sank lower and lower on the horizon, illuminating the waves until they sparkled like glowing diamonds. Among the passengers were several who, for the Gospel's sake, had long been separated from home and loved ones, and their hearts beat high, as they thought of the loving welcome that awaited them at home. Each dull thump of the engine was heard with gladness, as each forward bound of the vessel brought them nearer home. Others were there whose hearts were sad yet full of courage these had left father and mother and home and friends to gather to the Zion of God, and they too were looking forward with joy to the speedy fulfillment of their long-cherished desire to gather with the Saints in Zion. Suddenly there came a crash which shook the vessel from stern to stern. In a moment all was confusion and people rushed to and fro in wild excitement. In a few words the captain explained the gravity of the situation. The shaft of the engine had broken and the ship would float at the mercy of the winds and waves until the damage could be repaired. It was a trying moment for all. The wind had again risen, the sea had become greatly troubled, and a heavy storm was threatening. In the meantime, some of the passengers, those few humble servants of the Lord had gathered in one of the lower cabins in earnest prayer that God in His mighty power would preserve them from danger, and then by the power of the priesthood and in the name of Israel's God, the winds and waves were rebuked. "And suddenly there was a great calm." Into the hearts of these faithful
A TESTIMONY. 81
ones came stealing the sustaining influence of the Spirit of God. The promises that had been sealed on their heads prior to their departure from home came to their remembrances, that they would reach home in safety. A quiet, peaceful night was passed and in the morning the sea was calm and smooth with scarcely a ripple on the waves. This continued for three days and the engine again began to work and in due time the ship reached her desired haven. Some thought a miracle had been wrought and who shall deny it? Israel's God still lives. He who of old calmed the waves with His gentle "Peace be still," and he acknowledges the administrations of His authorized servants and still moves in a mysterious way His wonders to perform. Let us be encouraged by this manifestation of His power and know that there is no difficulty so great but with His help we can overcome it, and if the way is ever so dark, and everything seems against us, if we exert great faith in the Lord, stand firm in the testimony of Jesus, and keep His commandments, He will guide us safely through the voyage of life, through storms and sunshine until we land safely on the heavenly shore, our dearest haven.
A PRAYER.
By Edith McClendon.
Help me, dear Lord, to ever pray For light to guide my way, For wisdom pure that I might see The path that leads to thee. Help me, each day, to stronger grow, Thy children's needs to see, That I may help some weaker soul In safety back to thee. For with thy help all tasks seem light, Our path with flowers are strewn, Without it, all is very dark, And we are left in gloom. Ofttimes the world seems sad and dark, And trials hard to bear, Oh help us, then, to seek for light In true and earnest prayer.
MESA, ARIZONA.
My Testimony Concerning Temple Work.
By Lerona A. Wilson.
Last fall the Lord, in his tender mercy, touched me and brought me near to death's door. By the power of faith and fervent prayer, my life was preserved, and after a severe case of blood poisoning, I still retain my precious right hand. When I became humble enough and prayerful enough, so that I could exercise faith, I had what was to me a remarkable experience and I want to testify of what I saw and heard. When my life seemed to be hanging in the balance, and I was suffering pain and distress, lying upon my bed at midday, I was praying most fervently for deliverance, with all the faith I could exercise. My room suddenly became lighted brightly with a soft, white light, then a number of my deceased relatives came into my room. My father came first, then my mother, my sister and her son's wife and two doctors, who were among our ancestors for whom we had done ordinance work in the temple. All stood around my bed, and father addressed me, saying: "You seem to be in distress." I answered that I was, and did not know how I could endure it much longer. Father was dressed in a uniform such as he wore as an officer of the Nauvoo Legion, in the early history of the Church. Many remember Major Monroe, when he lived in Ogden and took part in the Echo Canyon campaign and in Indian troubles. Continuing he said: "I have come to talk to you about doing the temple work for our dead ancestors." At that point I caught the eye of my nephew's wife, whose death was the most recent, and who left four very young boys, one an infant, and to whose death I could hardly become reconciled; and I said to her: "O, Lydia, how are your little boys?" She replied: "They are all right, they are with their father." I asked again: "But why did you leave them?" Father answered for her: "We required her for an interpreter. We could not get along without her." I asked: "What calling is greater for a mother than to care for her infant children?" Father replied: "Others can take good care of her children, but there are few people who are qualified for the work she is doing. She had prepared herself." (I knew that to be true.)
MY TESTIMONY CONCERNING TEMPLE WORK. 83
Father asked me if I would go to the temple and take up the ordinance work for our kindred dead. I said: "How can I leave my work (in my school of dressmaking), and my family?" My mother spoke this time: "I had to leave my family just when I was needed the most. You can remain with your family. You will only need to spend a part of your time in the temple." Then my sister said: "I had to leave my family, too, when I was so much needed, and Lydia had to leave her little ones." These remarks made my excuse seem very weak. Father wanted me to promise him that I would do this work, and I gave him my promise that I would. "Now remember," he said, "it will require much faith. Do you think you can have faith enough?" "Father, I will do all in my power," I replied, for while under that exalting influence, it seemed an easy matter to have faith. Father then drew his sword and flashed it above my head. His tone changed from that of a gentle father, to the loud, stern voice of a commanding officer as he said: "If you do not, I will mow you down like stubble, and move you out of the way and raise up some one who will." Sensing more fully the difficulties of the task I had taken upon myself, I wanted to know how I could obtain means to carry on the work. Father said: "Call upon your brethren, they will help you." "Why do you not go to them?" I enquired. He answered: "I have tried and tried, but I cannot make an impression upon them." "Then how is it that I can hear you?" was my next question. "Read Section 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants, and you will understand," was his reply. (That section contains the Word of Wisdom). Father then quoted from the scriptures giving chapter and verse, and taught me the law of baptism in greater force and beauty than I had ever heard it, and explained that this ordinance cannot be administered in the spirit world. The dead who have died without baptism must have the ordinance performed for them by the living. He alluded to our kindred, saying they were a fine people, and they had received the gospel. They were most anxious to be advancing. They need to move on with other spirits who are in like condition and give place to the large numbers who are now crowding into that world. I asked: "How about the other churches, are they not doing some good?" He said: "Yes, in a way, but they have not the priesthood and can do little towards the salvation of the living or the dead.
84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
The Lord has only one Church. All others are mere organizations — man made, which he does not recognize as far as the gospel ordinances go." I asked if we would escape the calamities that are coming upon the earth. He said we had no promise unless we cease to worship the god of pleasure and worship the true and living God. Unless we turn our hearts to God and serve him, he will not know us in the hour of peril and distress. We have no promise of protection unless we keep the Lord's commandments and perform our duty towards those in the spirit world. As father was speaking about the god of pleasure, a panorama passed before me of playhouses crowded to overflowing, and empty or nearly empty churches. I asked: "How am I to get genealogies?" He said: "You will get help. People will assist you freely and willingly." (This has proved true.) I asked: "Will I live to do this work?" He replied: "You can live long, but you must change your mode of living. You should only eat the purest foods and eat sparingly." The work of the Lord, to him, was the all in all. He said in answer to a question: "If the people will enter into the temple and do the work for the dead, do enough of it, put spirit into the work, and do it right, they will have peace. But if the dead are neglected, the earth will be smitten." During an interview the two doctors became very much interested in my afflicted hand and told me what to do for it, but father said: "Do what you will, your hand will not be loosened up until you have proved your faithfulness." Which was true. Before parting, father instructed me to testify to the people of these things, and not let an opportunity pass. There was much more that would be of interest, for the interview lasted several hours, but this is already too lengthy for this occasion. The greatest lesson ever learned is the lesson of a wise choice of duties; to know which labor to perform, and which to leave undone. Where to put emphasis, and where to lift the pressure. To balance our lives and duties, so that each receives due attention and no more. — To discover and apply wisdom.
Home Economics.
Department.
Janette A. Hyde.
The General Board of the Relief Society has solved the problem of giving to the members of the Society the same advantages of training in Home Economics, which the younger members of our communities have been receiving through the splendid courses given in our State and Church schools. By co-operating with the Utah Agricultural College, we are now prepared to offer a good course in home economics, and we will be greatly assisted by having expert teachers sent to the various cities and counties whenever we require that assistance. The great advantage of having our lesson work presented at the Agricultural College, institutes and roundups, held in different parts of the state, and as named in the following outline, will appeal to every woman in the Society. Through the generosity of Congress, each state receives ten thousand dollars yearly to give all women in each state through the extension division, an opportunity for scientific training in all branches of domestic labor. Our own Agricultural College has mapped out a very efficient and thorough plan to carry this work to the homes of the women of this State. And when we learned that this course was open to all women, regardless of political, religious, or other qualifications, we approached Dr. Widtsoe and Dr. E. G. Peterson with a request for help in the course we contemplated introducing in our own Relief Society Guide. Both these gentlemen, with Miss McCheyne, who is in charge of this particular division of work, cordially agreed to meet any plan we might propose with both lesson outlines and expert help and teaching for local or general conventions. Indeed, they did more; they generously offered to co-ordinate our work so that it would find a place in their own regular round-ups. The General Committee appointed by the Relief Society Board, to have charge of this work are Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman with Miss Sarah Eddington. The committee appointed by Dr. Widtsoe and Dr. Peterson to co-operate with our committee is Miss Gertrude McCheyne, Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, Mrs. Lorin Merrill, Mrs. Hazel Love Dunford, Mrs. Effie Ensign Merrill, Mrs. E. D. Ball. Stake Presidents have been asked to co-operate with us in this great undertaking, by appointing women to supervise the work and be present at the institutes and conventions in their particular localities, whenever possible; but if more convenient, they may attend the Round-up in any other district. These conventions will not only encourage us in our daily labors,
86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
but will be as well a means of assisting us to systematize and scientifically organize our home work and business. At the Housekeepers' institute and conventions our delegates will have the subjects given them from our outlines as found in the January issue of the Magazine. Our Relief Society delegates will also have the privilege of taking up any other special courses, that they may receive a thorough understanding of the Home Economics courses, so that they may return to their wards qualified to give the lesson work to the members. Moreover, the delegates will receive special pedagogical instruction on how to teach the lessons in their wards. It must be understood that our lessons, which are taken from the Outlines, have been — in our case — specially applied to our Relief Society women, who are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. If any other sect or organized body of women were to use the outlines, they would of course modify the lessons and outlines to suit their exact needs. However, all this has been definitely discussed and understood by the Agricultural College authorities in conference with our committee. We suggest to Stake and Ward Presidents that they invite all women who may desire this excellent course to attend the sessions, and indeed, to join our Society, without distinction of religion or condition, if such candidates are accepted by the local branch thus appealed to. And where any home economics workers are found in the cities or wards, invite them to a place on your Home Economics committee.
MRS. RORER'S RECIPES.
As Demonstrated August 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 1915.
Fricassee of Chicken. — Disjoint chicken. Cover with boiling water in a casserole, mold and cook three-quarters of an hour. Add one teaspoonful of salt, level tablespoonful of flour, moisten with half cup of milk, a saltspoonful of pepper. Cook 15 minutes. Cover with dumplings made by sifting together one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt. Add milk to moisten — about half a cup. Cook ten minutes longer and serve.
Ragout of Beef with Dumplings — One pound of beef, one small onion, two tablespoonfuls of suet, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one pint of boiling water, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of coloring, and one teaspoonful pepper, if desired. Put the suet and onion in the oven until the onion becomes soft, then put in the meat and leave in oven until it is well seared, then add the flour, water and seasoning. Bake three-quarters of an hour.
88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Steak Stanley — One pound chopped raw meat, a tablespoonful of salt, a saltspoonful pepper, four bananas, two tablespoonfuls butter, two tablespoonfuls flour, half-pint milk, two tablespoonfuls dry horseradish. Add salt and pepper to meat and form into four steaks. Grease pie dish, arrange steaks and put in oven. Remove skins from bananas, put them into another pie dish, pour over a little melted butter, dust with sugar and put in oven. Make half a pint of white sauce, add the horse radish and a little extra salt and pepper and stand it over hot water. Turn steaks once. When done and ready to serve put horseradish sauce in bottom of heated platter, stand steaks in sauce, put bananas on top and serve.
Cannelon of Beef. — Pound chopped raw beef, cupful bread crumbs, tablespoonful grated onion, teaspoonful salt, tablespoonful chopped parsley, saltspoonful pepper, one whole egg. Mix ingredients, form into roll six inches long, wrap in greased paper, put on pie dish, cover the bottom of dish with water, add level tablespoonful butter and bake in quick oven half an hour, basting over the paper once or twice. Remove paper, dish the cannelon on heated platter, pour around tomato or brown sauce.
Honolulu Ham — Trim neatly a thick slice of ham, put in large casserole, cover with four potatoes, pare and cut into slices add cupful milk and a dusting of pepper. Bake in slow oven half an hour or until potatoes are tender.
White Sauce. — Two tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half cup of milk. Rub the butter and flour together, then add milk; stir over the fire until it reaches a boiling point.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Before trying to pull threads in linen, run a very damp piece of cloth along the line where the thread is to be pulled. It will surprise you how easily your thread will pull while your cloth is damp.
A Porch Comfort. — A useful idea in porch furniture is to have a shelf inside the porch rail, about one foot wide and one foot from the porch floor. The men will find an excellent foot rest, the women, a shelf for workbaskets or books. And just what the children want to sit on.
For a Sunny Back Porch. — Select a pole lima bean plant which not only gives the desired shade, but also provides a vegetable for the summer, also saves poling the beans, and economizes the garden space. Relief Society women, try this bean; it will be the envy of your friends and neighbors.
Much can be done toward freshening a room left shabby by winter's use, by using a pot of paint and a few yards of flowered chintz, cretonnes or hand painted linens. The variety of chintzes
HOME ECONOMICS DEPARTMENT. 89
shown by the department stores is great enough to meet any particular requirement. Many girls who are trying to decide upon a profession or vocation do not realize that the field for nursing offers advantages not to be found in many other callings. One of the first requirements of a successful nurse is a true spirit of service with a sincere interest in people of all kinds and classes. Few professions offer a larger field of usefulness.
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE.
John A. Widtsoe, President.
Farm and Home Conventions (called also Farmers' Roundup and Housekeepers' Conference) to be held as follows: Monroe— Jan. 10-22. Logan, Jan. 24-Feb. 5. Cedar City— Feb. 9-19. The 1916 sessions will be most important meetings of progressive farmers and housewives.
INSTITUTES AND SCHOOLS.
January 8 — Institute, Weber County. January 10-12 — Round-up, Monroe. January 22 — Institute, Granite. January 22 — Institute, Weber. January 24-31 — Round-up, Logan. February 1-5 — Round-up, Logan. February 7-19 — Round-up, Logan. February 7-19 — Round-up, Cedar. February 7-12 — School, Granite High School. February 21-26 — School, Beaver. February 28 — American Fork. March 3-4 — Tooele.
HOUSEKEEPERS' CONFERENCE.
Courses in teaching Home Economics to women's organizations.
Gertrude M. McCheyne.
Jan. 25th. 10 to 12 a. m. — The purpose of the lessons: A general survey of the course. Methods of handling the lessons. How to conduct demonstrations. The Home Economics movement. — Miss McCheyne.
Discussion of Lessons 2 and 3. What to bring out in the questions. Suggestions for handling question 8, so as to include
90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
their actual homework. Round table discussion on questions 10 and 11. — Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe.
Discussion of the budget as a help in the home. How to teach home-makers how to make a business of housekeeping. Suggestions as to carrying out the lessons. — Mrs. Effie Merrill.
A demonstration of budget making. Results obtained from uses of budgets. — Mrs. E. D. Ball, Mrs. C. A. Packham.
Home schedules to suit various needs. System the secret of success. — Mrs. E. D. Ball, Mrs. C. A. Packham.
"The Servant in the House," Evils of the present system. Changes suggested. Effect of teaching home economics on this problem. Co-operation in home work between members of family homes and communities. Are European methods applicable to Utah homes? Suggestions for co-operation from laundries, bakeries, Wisconsin and Minnesota. — Miss McCheyne.
The business of being a parent. Children's rights. Character building. The prose and poetry of home-life. — Mrs. Lorin Merrill, Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe.
HOME ECONOMICS WORK UNDER THE SMITH-LEVER ACT.
We copy here the opening paragraph from the Journal of Home Economics for September, written by the United States representative of this work, Dr. A. C. True:
The Smith-Lever Act makes provision for "co-operative agricultural extension work which shall consist of the giving of instruction and practical demonstrations in agriculture and Home Economics to persons not attending or resident" in the agricultural colleges. There is nothing in the Act making any division of the fund between agriculture and Home Economics. The money goes to the state agricultural colleges, which are to make plans for the work subject to the approval of the Secretary of Agriculture. This Act is the outcome of the agricultural extension and demonstration work which the United States Department of Agriculture and the agricultural colleges have been doing for a number of years.
A Prince of Ur.
Homespun.
Abram had many charges to execute on that momentous day. He knew by this time that his father's palace was to be no longer his dwelling place that his steps must be turned forever away from the scenes of his childhood and from the loveliness of his native land. He knew that his own life should not be taken, for he had the promise, but others were in dire distress and danger. Moreover, he had much to do to prepare for that exodus which might come at any moment. His great library must be prepared for passage over plain and river. His delicate astronomical instruments must be carefully packed and made ready for the camel's back. While his altar accessories, sacred as life itself, must be securely folded away by his own hands only. And most sacred of all, was the one precious relic which had come down to him from his great-grandfather Noah in a direct line for nine generations — the one thing which was proof to God and His angels that Abram was the vice-gerent of God upon this earth, that he was by endowment and ordination a prophet, seer and revelator, that wondrous instrument by which Abram could commune with his Maker when it was necessary and wise. That instrument called even in those early days, the Urim and Thummim — this was to be most sacredly disposed about his own person, for in no other way could it be conveyed out of Chaldea and into that Promised Land beyond the river of waters. All this lay upon Abram's heart for careful consideration and preparation. As Abram kneeled at sunset, in the altar chamber of his high tower, he poured out his soul in agonized prayer. Abram's temper was not of the volatile and fiery quality which marked the Assyrian hosts about him. His own was that superbly quiet spirit that lies like the pool of Siloam deep in the shoulders of the rock-ribbed hills; hushed and still yet ready always to be poured out in lavish warmth and fullness when the angel of the Presence touched its surfaces. Abram could be roused, but never excited. He needed time to map out his plan of action, and to mature his best wisdom. If action was required, he depended upon the Spirit of the Lord to give swiftness to his voice and to quicken his arrow. But his was rather the deep and changeless sea than a trickling stream of uncertain sound and depth. He had counseled long with Lot and Eliezer. Swift runners were sent out into every camp of Shemites on the plains of Shinar. The servants had worked faithfully, had labored quietly, and all were waiting the word
92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
of command. All were loyally ready for quick marching service, if occasion required, for each of them knew the perilous condition of his master. As the evening closed Abram laid his dark abaya over his robe, and with quiet steps, he descended from his tower and guided his way into the park gardens of the palace. As he passed the woman's courtyard, he saw down one of the dim aisles the flutter of a scarf. His pulses leaped with human fire, for his mind was now sufficiently delivered from the fierce anxiety of his preparation and the discharge of his most sacred duty to permit his thoughts to go searching after his beloved. And that fluttering scarf might be Sarai's. Might be — why, who was it? Abram stood glued to the spot. "My lord Abram?" called Iscah. "Here, come here." The voice was boldness and cajolery itself. "Abram," she cried again, more shrilly than before. "Come hither. It is I, Iscah. Do you think my robes are regal? What say you? Shall we walk in the cool of the evening on the turret gardens?" Mardan suddenly appeared close beside them. But with a grimace and a sharp thrust of her hands, the willful girl said, "Mardan, go you on. I will walk with Abram. I have much to say." Then as Mardan demurred, she threw back her head and cried loudly, "Am I a child, or am I the Princess Iscah? Shall I not be obeyed? To be a courtier of the palace of Ur requires that princesses shall be obeyed by courtier! Besides, Mardan, you might just as well go on, for I shall not come till I am quite ready. If you like, you can wait at the southern gate of the king's apartments. Go, like a good Mardan, there now." Mardan was too crafty to try to check the wild impulses of a half crazed girl. He knew by the smoldering fires in her eyes that her recent experience had affected her as they usually did all jealous women, with a sort of temporary insanity. She must be humored at any cost. For her possible disclosures would perchance involve himself, and at least might warn Abram. However, all that was left for him to do was to trust to the black luck which had so far followed him in all his easy, luxury-loving life. He silently brought out his hidden phallus, and as he turned away, he kissed its revolting image to insure its protection for his superstitious mind. "Abram, dear, sweet kinsman Abram, let me walk by your side. I am very distraught," said Iscah. With the deep courtesy which was so much a part of his kingly nature, Abram at once turned, in spite of the distaste he felt, and kept step with the fluttering swiftness of the gaily decked maiden beside him. He was too wise to make any comment
A PRINCE OF UR. 93
upon the high painted cheeks and lips, the drug-widened eyes and penciled brows, the jeweled tresses, curling in studied abandon down the maiden's shoulders; nor did he comment on the richly embroidered dress which left the beautiful arms, neck, and breast of the girl fully exposed, clasped as they were with necklaces and bracelets of pearls and sapphires, with amulets and rings about her fingers. It was the first time Abram had ever seen one of the women of his father's household clad in the gala robes of the Assyrian lady of fashion. But he still said nothing to the excited girl, who chattered on by his side. He scarcely knew what to say to her, and gravely prayed to God for wisdom in this domestic crisis. "My dear Lord Abram, I have reached the very turning point of my life. You have never understood me" — here the vermillion in her lips pouted with petulant grief — "and you have always turned aside my deepest impulses." "Nay, lady, let not thy lips deceive thy heart. If thou wilt speak truly, thou must say that Abram hath truly loved and would fondly cherish his kinswoman Iscah." "Aye, that would be true. But how loved?" "As truly loved as ever pure and gentle maidens should be loved, my lady." "Nay, but even now, in my last wild extremity, you turn aside my attempts to reach your heart with your sweet phrases coined of generalities which mean nothing. Speak from thy heart, not from thy head." Abram, like other great and lonely natures, was quite unable to parry with craftily turned sentences, or sudden thrusts. So he retreated into silence, as was his wont. "And now, when you have nothing to say which would really save me from madness and destruction as usual in such cases in your intercourse with me, you just shut your close lips and will not speak at all." The wild, yet certain, affection in the girl's tone smote Abram like a knife. "My child, my poor, unhappy child, speak plainly. Tell me what you mean? What reckless threat lingers in the background of your speech. Remember that Abram loves you like a brother, that he would shield you and protect you from every harm — would give his very life, if necessary." "Oh, dearest and noblest of kinsmen, say that once again. Speak with trembling love in your tones like that to me always, and I will fly to the uttermost parts of the earth for you, with you. I will be your slave, your maid-servant, bought with a price!" With wild abandon the poor crazed girl had thrown her arms
94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
about his neck and now clung to him, sobbing, clinging to him so closely that she was trembling and breathless. "My little dove, my poor little kinswoman." "Nay, call me not by that distant hateful title of kinswoman. Call me thine own true love — call me by all those endearing titles mine ears have ached to hear from your beloved lips. Hold me close in thine arms." This outburst of passion was more than Abram was able to bear quietly, although it shook him from head to foot, he was more profoundly antagonized than words could have expressed. How had this pretty ignorant child so suddenly developed a power which he in common with good men despised when it was left to flood unlicensed over the human soul. He took the girl's arms from around his neck, and said with firmness, "Iscah, I don't pretend to deny that I have at last fathomed the cause of your strange conduct to me these last few days. I have sought to excuse and extenuate, but tonight, I can bear no more." "Shall not a maiden have the right to love?" she asked sneeringly, while her lips curled scornfully over the pretty white teeth. "Yes, indeed she shall. But there are two kinds of love, Iscah, as there are two kinds of religion. And the human heart that gives place to one in truth has no room to accommodate the other." "And do you mean thus to tell me that my love for you is base and false?" "I would urge you to see for yourself that love purifies, ennobles, glorifies man or woman who enjoys its presence. No matter if the object of that love is never gained in life if the love be pure and constant, the future realms of Silver Light, as these Assyrians call heaven, are but the more eagerly sought, the more devotedly prepared for, in order to attain the bright fulfillment of that cherished love. The passion which is never satisfied except when selfishly gratified and ruthlessly demanded, can never do aught but degrade the human soul." "Abram, answer me one question, do you love my kinswoman Sarai?" Abram stood with his arms folded across his breast, his eyes bent upon the ground. It seemed a sacrilege to thus flaunt the name of this beautiful lady in the public alleys of the palace, and to lift his eyes to the face of this fiercely angry and jealous rival. But he reasoned, that if he remained silent, the hope thus again kindled in the unhappy girl before him might only prolong her misery and his own sorrow. Meanwhile, the girl was watching him with cat-like eyes. Her whole body was crouched as if ready to spring panther-wise. Her arms hugged her sides closely.
A PRINCE OF UR. 95
At last, Abram spoke, "I have loved the Princess Sarai since I was a boy. And I shall love her through eternity, no matter whether I am so blessed as to claim her on this earth or not." With a cry as of a wounded animal in pain, Iscah tore his arms from his breast, and flinging herself into them, she clung to him with the desperation of madness. "O, I could kill you both for that. Sarai has always won the very things I most desired. With her beauty and her cunning powers, she has stolen from me my father's best affection; the very servants obey her gladly while they fear and dread my approach. She has gifts and graces God denied to me; kings desire her and nations conspire for her possession. O, why has this been? And now, to know at last that she has entered the citadel of a heart I have so passionately desired to capture as mine own that Sarai is the beloved of Abram as of all others whose love I so desire. O, I could kill you both — kill you both — kill." The girl sobbed and moaned while Abram tried to soothe and quiet her. Suddenly, she sprang from him, and like a tigress, she dug her nails into his bare arm. Then she hissed in his ear. "You could have saved me if you would — you could, you could. Remember that and now you have doomed me to the lowest depths of hell —" "Nay, Iscah, I will not hear you speak so; I have had little to do with you or your love. God knows that I have been patient and fair, and very tender, but the passion you speak of does not originate in heaven, nor does it save people. Sometime, somewhere, you and all others must meet the lions of fierce temptation — and conquer them, alone — alone, without one soul to help or hinder you. All the acts and words of your life will go towards making of that struggle a triumph of faith or a descent into purgatory. I could not help you from reaching that place in your life, for you must meet it here or hereafter. That trial is upon you now. This is your moment of choice. I beseech of you to think, to fight this fiend, to put far from you this wild temptation. Come to me, with me, fair lady, be sane, be wise." "Will you take me as your wedded wife?" she asked in low and vibrant tones. And the man bent above her sorrowing, for he knew that what he said he would do, though the heavens fell. "Yes, Lady Iscah, I will take you for my wedded wife." "And will you cast Sarai out of your heart forever and forever?" "You have no right to ask of me such a thing. I refuse to allow you to enter into my soul's problems thus." "Then," she cried wildly, "then it means that you would make of me just what I have always been, a dimmed star, a secondary light, a servant, a slave of proud and haughty Sarai. Nay, nay,
96 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Abram, go thy way, and I shall go mine. Seek thy Sarai, but seek her on the altar of Elkanah. Either or both of you shall pay for this insult with your lives. Remember what I say. Sarai may be beautiful, but so am I. Sarai may win the king's regard, so can I. She may be the bride of a prince; I shall be the mistress — and the priestess — of the king. Ha, go thy way — go thy way." With a hissing Assyrian curse upon her lips, she eluded Abram's outstretched arms, and like the comet she was, she flew through the gateway with her eunuch close behind her. As Abram started in pursuit, Mardan barred the way, with a dozen soldiers of the king's guard. Mardan smiled sneeringly as he turned and counterturned the soldiers to prevent Abram's egress from the gateway. "Abram is soon to be the king's prisoner," sneered Mardan. And thus Abram took his final way through the gardens of the palace. Iscah flew to her apartments. On her way she met Lot who confided to her ears the hurried wedding preparations which were going forward for that night. Iscah scarcely heard him. She sped on. She cried out loudly, "Serim, Eros, quick, bring me coffee, bring me wine, bring me my sandals, prepare my bath." As the slaves flew to carry out her peremptory orders, a eunuch entered backwards, and prostrating himself before her, he threw up his hand in a secret sign. "What is it, Irad? Quick, speak, or thy tongue shall be slashed!" "The Cushite priestess, Zillah, waits without." The eunuch had brought Iscah good news. Her unstrung nerves, her sense of utter shame, and her new abandonment needed just the stimulus of this powerful priestess of a cult which had but just gained the Hebrew maiden for its votary but which lustful worship was old in all its powerful hideousness to the Cushite who waited without. "Room, room," muttered the Cushite, when she had bowed low at the couch of her mistress. Priestess she might be, but in the household of Terah which claimed her presence, Zillah was still the bondwoman of the princess whose father had bought her in the open market place. "Leave us alone," cried Iscah loudly to her attendants. They all scampered at her tone, fairly falling over each other in their endeavor to get behind the door draperies, and then out beyond, the corridors. Only the eunuch remained behind, standing silent but menacing enough, a figure carved as if in bronze marble, just beside the curtained entrance to the chamber. With another sign, Zillah looked furtively at the eunuch. But Iscah said savagely,
A PRINCE OF UR. 97
"Say on, thou bird of ill-omen, I will not send my bodyguard away. His ears have outlets only behind my own tongue. Speak on, I say." Zillah looked with some natural apprehension at her young mistress. Impatient and quick-spoken, proud Iscah had always been; but there was a metallic ring to her voice, a glare of smoldering fire behind her eyes that made even the hardened black wench wince with fear. "My gracious princess, queen of loveliness and lady of the Silver Light, I have come to thee with news most important." "Well, cease thy sophistries, for I have now graduated in thine own bestial university; tell thy quick, unvarnished tale. Quick, I say!" "Princess, knowest thou that the Prince Abram has come under the dire displeasure of the Emperor Nimrod? He has sought to prevent the very noble and glorious offering of mine own husband's daughters on the dedicatory altar of Elkanah tomorrow night. Moreover, he has presumed to argue on points of religious doctrine with the very God Nimrod-Merodach, speaking blasphemy, in the presence of the Father god, the Lord of the Alabaster House, the Lord duly reigning! Nimrod is justly offended and has decreed the quick punishment of Abraham." "Wait, Zillah," cried the princess, her brows knitting in sudden pain. She had no intention of allowing such meddling with her own angry punishment of her Cousin Abram, for she was cunning enough to hope she could devise ways to bring him yet bending to her feet, if she could but be left alone. "Hold, I say. What fool has been prating our affairs to Nimrod?" "Sarai, my mistress, 'twas thy Cousin Sarai, sweet mistress" and the wicked voice of the Cushite rolled again and again this sweet morsel over her huge lips as she repeated the name in oily accents. "Sarai? Tell me the story." Thereupon, the black woman detailed the interview between Sarai and the emperor, and the terrible scene which had followed. But there she paused. Her cunning brain taught her how to prepare her climax so to bring about the fierce storm she knew would rage. "So! Sarai has been meddling with my business. She has betrayed my generous intentions to his gracious majesty of offering my slave-girls to dedicate the new altar! But I fancy Nimrod gave her no thanks for trying to stop the glorious sacrifice — hey?" "Nay, nay, princess, quite the contrary." "And Sarai? What said Nimrod when he saw her?"
98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
"The emperor, he was quite undone, your highness. He gaped at her with both open eyes and mouth. He was like to one crazy. He let his great chops down as if they were a secret door opened, and they ready to close over her beauteous lips." "Pah, Cushite wench, you sicken me!" Indeed the rush of swift memory of her own recent bitter humiliating experiences had not faded, nor had her passions yet seized upon the blackest chambers of her secret soul. Poor misguided damsel! She stood at the threshold of her whole eternal existence. The small vanities, the crude selfishnesses of her petty vagaries, the subtle and captivating coquetries of her youthful impulses had now been changed into the very snares and fires of the deepest hell. But at its mouth, she stood with terrified gaze, her own slender feet half unwilling now to enter into that awful vortex of human depravity. Her delicate sensibilities were still dreading to fasten upon her body the chains which would sink with corroding fetters into her very vitals and soon or late destroy her, body and soul. At such moments, the sum of our existence is told by the lifting of an eyebrow, the tone of a voice, the lilt of a song, the lack of a prayer, and the absence of an angel. O, where was Iscah's angel? There stood before Iscah only the leering face of that Cushite devil in woman's form — and she subtle wench that she was; lifted up her head with proud abandon, feigning indifference, as she said with studied accents of light import: "That is not all your Cousin Sarai hath done." "No? Then quickly tell the rest. Or out of my presence you will pack, forever, or I will have Irad fling you out head first." The woman threw up her head proudly. She was no coward. "Guard thy tongue, princess though thou art, or I shall lift mine hand seven times to Elkanah with thy name upon my lips." This dark threat of some unknown evil curse, quelled the irritable girl, but she still stamped her delicate foot impatiently. "Go on," she cried. "The princess Sarai has learned of the determination of the emperor, and she has incited her brother Lot to sly rebellion against his father and his king. Lot is now gathering the shepherd forces of the tribe of Terah, and this night they will be scattered amongst the soldiery of the king, as they ascend the temple sanctuary. A surprise will not be difficult, and in the confusion, Abram and Sarai —" "Abram and Sarai, say you —" "Aye, your highness, Abram and Sarai! Know you not of their love? They will escape to the plains outside, and then ho for liberty and a foreign land."
A PRINCE OF UR. 99
"We shall see — we shall see," cried Iscah, as she led the way furiously to the palace gardens. "Ho, slaves — approach, quick," cried Iscah as she regained her apartments. And the now angry and wildly excited princess clapped her hands with furious impetuosity. "Here, all of you, quick, my bath, my royal robes, my jewels, my perfumes, my gods, — aye every one of those precious little augurs. Bring them all. Throw incense before them, bring me my phallus, wreath it in roses of Damask, and bear it before me. I shall seek the halls of the emperor. If he desires to see beautiful women, shall I not be there? Zillah, is not my face as fair, my hair as dusky, my lips as seductive as can be claimed by my hated Lady Sarai?" The slaves flew hither and thither, in vain endeavors to execute the crazed orders of their mistress. Zillah saw the havoc she had wrought, and fearing lest her plans would not mature, she said craftily, "Let my princess be assured that if the Lord of the Alabaster House once gazes upon her countenance, his eyes will never leave her face. But be not too hasty. Kings like the fruit which hangs too high for mortal plucking. Let me summon Mardan. He shall excite the curiosity of our lord the king, and thou shalt come in after. Meanwhile, shall not Sarai be taught her lesson? Why shall not the altars of Merodach be purified and cleansed by the blood of the daughter of this house, Sarai? What thinkest thou? Let me summon Mardan." "'Tis my own plan, Zillah. Let me but catch the ear of Nimrod, and I will risk my powers to please and thus secure my will. Bring Mardan. That is well put. He will help me, that I know." The running of many feet, the tiring of many maidens, with quick and trembling hands, were all too slow for the fierce and jealous anger of the Princess Iscah. But she soon had Prince Mardan beside her, even as she was robing, and shame now having left her, she laughed in wild abandon at his wily pleasantries concerning her exposed beauty and her power to allure. Woe is Iscah! What vortex is too deep for the foot of a jealous woman, whose passion is lashed by selfishness and driven by vanity! As they entered the inner courtyard, Mardan halted. He had been commissioned to deliver Sarai that night into the arms of Nimrod. His own puzzled brains were at work to both satisfy and to defeat his father and king. That he, Mardan would try to convey Sarai into the precincts of the temple of Mylitta, except when he himself were the ruling spirit and priest of the voluptuous spot, was quite out of the question. But he well knew that his life would not be worthy half a maneh unless that peremptory
100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
order was complied with. So here was Mardan, and here was the night coming on. What was to be done? "Mardan" — called Iscah impatiently — "how may I see the king? I must see him, and see him I will, if the stars fall at my feet as I reach his throne." "That is very easy, the seeing of my father. But why? Tell me of thy trouble, for I can tell that trouble is there from the flash of thy bright eyes and the scarlet of thy cheek. Tell me, kinswoman, thou canst trust Mardan." "Tush, Mardan, I know thee and thy ways. But still I say, find me a way to reach the king. I have my speech a-preparing." "The very thing" — for a scheme flashed across Mardan's quick brain. The haunting image and likeness of Iscah to Sarai, so often a provoking and a dismal illusion, would now make Sarai's safety sure and would also be the greatest possible earthly glory to this passionate girl who was determined to throw her life away on a single act of vengeance or spite. "I have an idea," he said ingratiatingly, too subtle to show the girl his real mind, but quite content to lead her on through her vindictiveness to her own utter ruin. "Canst thou attire thyself like Sarai? Canst thou robe thyself and tire thy hair, and so enrich thy carriage that the king will think thee Sarai?" "Why should I try to be aught but myself? Am I not proud and lovely, Sarai's equal in beauty, and far surpassing her in warmth and alluringness?" Mardan smiled into his discreet hand, as he said in oily tones, "Thou art a peerless damsel. The stars would swing in their courses to pay thee homage and make thee their moon if thou were one of them. But your highness, the king hath seen Sarai, and hath not seen thee. So that he hath bethought himself to send by me his gracious invitation to Sarai to come to the Pavilion of Mylitta this very night and there be glorified by entrance into the Babylonian cult through his own gracious person. Now, as I look upon thy radiant beauty, it hath occurred to me that if the king were to see thee approach him in thy splendor, yet veiled as becometh a Shemite maiden, he would surely bestow upon thee the full glory of his love, and it would be most easy for thee to thereafter dispossess him of his last design and thyself become his queen, the high priestess who shall herself give the royal portents from her couch of gold in the Ziggurat in Nippur. To be the wife of Abram would be a small thing but to be the queen of Nimrod — Nimrod the mightiest hunter since time began and till time shall end this is an honor that should fix the ambition of any daughter of man."
(to be continued.)
Current Topics.
By James H. Anderson.
China is once more a monarchy — and a good field for another revolution. Football fatalities have become so numerous as to suggest "safety first" for a timely college "yell." "Made in Utah," or even "made in America," will not fit some of the furnishings of the new State Capitol which have been shipped from foreign countries at great expense, and not of necessity. Sugar statistics show Utah to be the fourth in production among the beet sugar states, California, Colorado and Michigan being ahead. Another Utah beet sugar factory for Box Elder County has been decided on. The Presidential campaign of 1916 is fairly inaugurated by the selection of Chicago as the place for one of the two great national conventions, and St. Louis for the other place; the Republicans on June 7 and the Democrats on June 14, respectively. War-preparedness as a safeguard for peace is one of the chief arguments urged by the ultra-advocates of a big army and navy for the United States. It hasn't seemed to work that way recently in Europe. Reduction of taxes is sought by farmers' organizations in Cache County. A considerable reduction in the unnecessarily large number of public employees would help to check the evil complained of. Recruiting for the British army in five days from the 7th of December brought 2,000,000 new men into the field for war. The British nation seems at last to be awakened to the seriousness of the struggle in which the nations of the Old World are engaged. "Profanity" — In discussing this subject an influential New York journal remarks: "Nothing can be said in favor of swearing. As a habit it is disgusting." Yet the most notable display of vulgar language and swearing in public seems to be observed among peace officers chosen to protect public morals.
102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Marquis and Lady Aberdeen, who visited Utah in December, in the interest of the Aberdeen fund for the betterment of social and industrial conditions in Ireland, were given a most cordial reception in this state, and appear to be fully appreciative of the hearty welcome accorded them. Six hours as a full laboring-day is the demand made by the building trades department of the American Federation of Labor. Possibly that is so the men may go home and do the washing and cleaning for their over-worked wives. Educational purposes in Utah get 88.1 per cent of the state taxes, or 64.5 per cent of all the state revenues comprised under regular state taxes, licenses, inheritance tax, etc., as shown in the report of the state auditor. This is a very liberal endowment for the state toward its educational institutions. Turkish atrocities in putting to death 15,000 Armenians at Bitlis consisted in forcibly extracting fingernails and toenails of their victims, knocking out their teeth, whittling off noses, assaulting the women, and putting the doomed human beings to death under lingering, shocking agony. Henry Ford and his peace-mission associates did not find the European field prepared for their activities, at present. The initiated will understand that the present world-war is not to be terminated so long as the Turkish government is classed among the dominant factors in world-politics. Free speech in the United States Senate is likely to prevail in the present session of Congress, since the party now in the majority there could not agree on a cloture rule. A strangling of free speech among the Senate solons likely would give more real cause for complaint than an occasional filibuster has done. Austria and the United States were said to be on the verge of a breach of official relations, owing to the American demands for apology and reparation in the case of Americans killed in the sinking of the Ancona; but Austria, no more than Germany, could afford to defend the unprovoked killing of neutrals on unarmed ships at sea, so she has punished the guilty officer. "Throw spelling books into the furnace," advocated H. B. Wilson, superintendent of schools at Topeka, Kansas, at the Utah Educational Association convention in Salt Lake City during the winter holidays. The extremely bad spelling in communications
CURRENT TOPICS. 103
for publication, received by the press throughout the country, from people (not excluding school teachers) indicates that Mr. Wilson's advice is altogether superfluous. The Suez Canal is being threatened by Germany, Austria and Turkey, and is being fortified as a base for the advance of British and French troops into Turkey through Syria, along the western slopes of Palestine, where the latter forces will be within reach of support in men and munitions from a war fleet in the Mediterranean. Truly Syria is a prospective sanguinary field. An anti-suffragist, Mrs. George, of Brookline, Mass., went before the U. S. Senate suffrage committee and endeavored to turn the Senators there against the equal suffrage amendment by injecting anti-"Mormon" prejudice in behalf of her contention. Fortunately, Senator George Sutherland of Utah was present, and under his questioning Mrs. George was brought to the necessity of retracting some of her falsehoods against the "Mormon" people.
Bagdad, in the valley of the Euphrates, once withstood the assault of more than 300,000 men. The British tried to take it with less than 30,000, against a much superior force of Turks, and have been forced back 95 miles along the Euphrates, after getting to within ten miles of the city. The next effort will be by a much increased army, which Britain now has available.
Foreign official representatives in this country may yet learn how to confine their warlike proclivities to their immediate antagonists and to outside of American soil, if the United States government continues its activity against those who violate neutrality in Uncle Sam's dominion under the cloak of official guests. Two representatives of Germany have been required to go home, another is under indictment and arrest, and still others are being investigated as within suspicion of criminality.
Parental control appears to be relegated to the background in some of the Eastern states, according to an influential New York newspaper, which says: "If the children don't rule the household, they at least shape their own course with scant respect for the wishes of their parents. The rudeness of boys is only matched by the brazenness of girls you pass on the streets." Unfortunately, this word-picture is descriptive of conditions occasionally observed in more western localities.
Query Box.
Conducted by Hazel Love Dunford.
We are opening this month a department for the asking and answering of questions, covering any and all phases of woman's interests. We have secured the services of a trained domestic scientist, who is a mother of several young children, herself a broad-minded, intelligent Latter-day Saint worker, in private and public affairs. We invite the attention and co-operation of our readers and friends. There is, of course, no charge attached to answers. But if you wish personal information which cannot be answered in this Department, send stamps for reply. Address questions to Query Department, Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Query Department: Recently I wore a white chiffon waist with my navy blue suit. When I came home I was horrified to find my waist was badly discolored under the arms. Is there any way I can remove the coloring? Mrs. L. C. Y., Salt Lake.
Mrs. L. C. Y.: Try dipping the discolored part of your waist in a little ammonia.
Editor of the Query Department: My husband is very fond of brown gravy. How can I satisfy him in this regard, and still have my meat just a nice brown. Are the colorings I buy in store harmful? Mary B., Centerville.
Mary B.: No, the colorings, such as Kitchen Bouquet, etc., are not harmful, but are expensive. Try this recipe for homemade colorings: 2 c. sugar. 1 onion. 1 carrot. 1 c. water. 2 bay leaves. 1 t. salt. Put the sugar in a granite pan, or frying pan, and brown until it is almost burnt. Then add the seasonings and simmer slowly thirty minutes and bottle it. It will keep indefinitely.
Query Department: Will you kindly give me a good recipe for potato soup? Fanny D., Kanab, Utah.
Fanny D., Kanab: All cream soups are made much the same. They are composed of white sauce with some vegetable to flavor and a little seasoning, such as salt, pepper and onion.
QUERY BOX. 105
Potato Soup: 1 c. mashed potatoes. 2 tb. butter. 1 qt. milk. 2 tb. flour. 1 t. salt. 1 small onion. Pepper. 1 t. minced parsley. Scald milk; thicken with the flour stirred with a little cold milk. Add potato and strain. Add butter and seasonings. When scalding the milk put in the onion.
Dear Editor: My little boy is a very rapid eater. I know it is not good for him to bolt his food as he does. Can you suggest any way I could break him of this habit. E. M., American Fork.
E. M., American Fork: You are right when you say you know it is not good for your child when he swallows his food whole. I would suggest that you take time to sit down with him and tell him a story while he eats. For instance, while he eats bread and milk, tell him how the old cow walks around in the pasture picking out the very best grasses, and there she lies in the shade and chews and chews so slowly on every bite, and in this way you will find the child will soon get the habit of eating slowly and chewing his food well.
I have been looking for a good vacuum sweeper. Can you give me any information as to kinds, and their relative value? Thanking you in advance, I am Yours truly, Mrs. Mable.
Mrs. Mable: There are many different vacuum sweepers on the market, ranging in price for from five to twelve dollars. A good company will always give you a trial, and you can use their sweeper and see how it works, for yourself. There are several different sweepers recommended that do good work. Some of these are the Bissell, the E. Z., and the Argyle. The Argyle is expensive, but does the work thoroughly. Any woman who wishes to make her work easy should have a sweeper in her home. It saves work in many different ways.
Question in Genealogy: How shall we record a child, when only the sex is given, as "son" or "daughter"?
Answer: Record exactly as written, as: John Smith. Mrs. Mary Smith. Child. John daughter. Mary son. If there is any evidence that the son or daughter became old enough for baptism, record them as "Mr. Smith" or "Miss Smith."
Notes from the Field.
By the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman.
Relief Society Books. It is greatly regretted that there has been an unavoidable delay in sending out the new books for secretaries and treasurers. We expected that these record books, with the teacher's books, would be delivered to the stake presidents by the last of December, and that they would be in the hands of the ward secretaries and treasurers by January 1st; but at this latter date, they were still in the hands of the printers. This delay was caused by the usual rush of business in the printing office at this time of the year, and to a shortage of paper in the local market. Our stake presidents are always very prompt in attending to business matters, and we hope that at this time there will be no exceptions to the rule, and that they will be especially prompt in delivering the books to the wards. As the teachers' books were ready for distribution on January 1st, they were mailed out to the stakes, and were no doubt distributed to the wards immediately. It was decided two years ago that a new set of books be arranged for Relief Society work, and when the plans of the same were presented at the business session of the October conference, it was recommended by the General Board, and decided, that the books be adopted by all the wards in the Church on January 1, 1916. It was understood, at that time, that many of the wards would still have space in their old books, and would question the advisability of discarding them, but as it is desirable that all the books and accounts be uniform throughout the Society, it was decided that all old books be filed for preservation at the close of 1915, and that the new books be adopted. In a letter sent out to stake presidents, October 18th, we requested that the exact number of ward and branch Relief Society organizations be sent in, also the number of teachers' districts, recommending that each teacher's district comprise only twelve families. This information was desired in order that we might have a sufficient number of books and report forms printed. The stake presidents responded immediately, and our order for books and for report forms was based on this information.
We have arranged for each ward as reported to have one secretary's and one treasurer's book, and a number of teacher's books, equal to the number of districts in the ward, that is, one teacher's book for each district. A few extra copies of the books were ordered in case new districts are organized, and may be had on application to this office.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 107
The Secretaries' Book. The Secretaries' book is arranged for five years' work. It is separated in five distinct parts, with dates of years and months affixed. It is planned to contain both minutes and reports. Arrangement is made for minutes of four meetings each month, with space for brief minutes of business or preparation meetings. At the end of each year's work, a report form is given, upon which the data for the yearly report may be recorded, and which agrees with the regular report form.
The Treasurers' Book. The Treasurers' book is also planned for five years' work, and is arranged to record all receipts and disbursements, with space for all transactions and for the names of donors and beneficiaries.
Teachers' Book. The Teachers' book contains instructions and suggestions to teachers. It is arranged for a permanent record of the names of the families residing in the district, for twelve monthly teachers' reports, and for a summary of donations for the year. On the sheet that is arranged for the monthly report, provision is made on one side for the names of the two teachers who have charge of the district, the names of those who make the donation, and the amount and kind of their donations, with a line for totals at the bottom of the page. On the other side of the sheet, provision is made for recording the names of new families arriving in the district, for the names of Relief Society members who have moved from the district, and for the activities of the Society as follows: Days spent with the sick, number of special visits to the sick, bodies prepared for burial, and number of days spent in Temple work. There is also special provision on this page for any general information the teachers may desire to report. Visits to the sick and days spent in the temple of a private character need not be here reported.
Stake books. Several stakes have recently sent orders to the office for stake record books. The General Board has not, as yet, made provision for such books. It is the plan, however, to provide for them before the end of 1916.
N. B. All ward books should be obtained from the stake presidents.
Presiding teachers. An inquiry recently came into the office asking if it is necessary and proper for each ward to have a presiding teacher. President Wells gives the following information on the subject: She states that at one time in the Relief Society, the teachers were supervised by one of their own number, who was called a presiding teacher; the plan was not successful,
108 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
however, and was later discarded. This occurred during the presidency of Eliza R. Snow. The General Board desires to abide by the ruling then made. President Emmeline B. Wells is emphatic in her wish to discontinue such a practice, if it has been revived in any of the wards.
IN MEMORIAM.
We are much pained to record the death of Mrs. Kellie Beecraft, counselor to Mrs. Isabella M. Foulger first of the Ogden Stake. Mrs. Beecraft was a woman of rare gifts, strong personality, and abiding faith. She was modest, sweet, unassuming, and lovable in disposition. She was a true friend, devoted wife and mother, and an untiring worker in the Church. Mrs. Beecraft joined the Church in August, 1880. A month later, she became a member of the Relief Society, and during all these 36 years, her service in the Organization has been continuous. For 24 years, Mrs. Beecraft held the position of ward secretary, and for 5 years she acted as stake secretary, resigning this latter position to become first counselor in the Ogden Stake Presidency. As secretary, she was prompt and accurate, and always ready and willing for any service connected with her position. Another cause which Sister Beecraft held dear to her heart, and in which she was an inspiration to hundreds in her stake, was the genealogical work. Through her, one of the first stake Relief Society classes of instruction was held in the Ogden Stake, and as a result of that class, 22 volumes of charts and sketches are now filed in the stake office.
On November 26, 1913, Mrs. Harriett Lee Whitby passed to the Great Beyond. Mrs. Whitby, at the time of her death, was president of the Marion Ward Relief Society in the Cassia Stake, a position she had held with honor and dignity for 20 years. Mrs. Whitby was the wife of James Whitby. She was born in Tooele, but moved to Idaho in 1882, and was thus one of the pioneers of this valley. She was a helpful and dependable woman, using her time and talent for the benefit of the community. She was greatly beloved by her co-workers, and is deeply mourned by them.
Mrs. Abigail T. Shoemaker, wife of Ezra Shoemaker, died at her home in Manti on January 4, 1916. Mrs. Shoemaker was the daughter of Anna M. and Azariah Tuttle, pioneer residents of Sanpete county. She was president of the South Sanpete stake until November 5th, when she was released from her duties on account of ill health. She was a faithful and devoted worker in the Manti Temple, a sweet-spirited and gracious president, obedient to the priesthood, and a valued friend and Saint.


EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Motto — Charity Never Faileth.
THE GENERAL BOARD
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. III. FEBRUARY, 1916. No. 2.
Efficiency.
What is Efficiency? The word used in modern business is this rather modern word — efficiency. We have efficiency engineers and efficiency experts in every department of the modern strenuous life — men who are able, competent and extremely alert men; who cut down expenses, men who discover weakness, and men who promote activity, who would teach other men how to accomplish results.
Efficiency in The Home. These modern ideas of efficiency have actually invaded the home. Devices and "contraptions" for the lessening of work in the home, arrangements to save steps, to lessen the friction everywhere in the domestic machinery, through small compact kitchen laboratories, are the order of the day. Budgets to compose and adjust the household expenses are introduced into all the Home Science Departments in the technical schools. Efficient housekeepers, home-makers, wives, mothers and daughters, are the great modern requirement.
110 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
The Efficient Woman. The efficient housekeeper has many of the elements of success required to offer for the efficient woman in any public business. Women who have learned to regulate their own affairs, to conduct their own intricate domestic problems, are, as a rule, qualified for a wider usefulness, a broader sphere of activity. But, alas, so few women, in the mass, are really efficient housekeepers. To do things in "any old way," at "any old time," is too often the rule in most households. And yet, this thing we call efficiency can be cultivated. We are never too old — we Relief Society women — to learn and to progress. Every truth we learn here, every fault overcome, every virtue acquired is just so much efficiency laid up in our bank on the other side. And spiritual efficiency will be the circulating medium hereafter.
Are you Efficient? Are you an efficient wife and mother? An efficient housekeeper and homemaker? An efficient Relief Society member, teacher, or officer? If not, why not? Are you capable, competent, and faithful? Can you be depended on? When you say you will attend to anything, do you keep your word? Do you take responsibility? Do you give good service? Do your labors produce the effects intended, or are they largely abortive? Do you earn, really and truly earn, no matter what you may be paid; do you earn efficiency wages or only day's wages? Is your activity productive of the most useful effects, or do you "jump up and down in a bucket all day and holler", as a Yankee grandmother characterized a certain woman's foolish waste of time and energy? These are the questions I ask myself, and I hereby pass them on to you. The world, the Church, and above all, the Relief Society, wants efficient women, members, and officers.
ATTENTION! GENEALOGICAL COMMITTEES.
In answer to many inquiries the General Board wishes it understood that the genealogical visits to be reported are official visits paid to the Temples by the ward Relief Society. Private visits of individuals to Temples need not be recorded on our reports.
Guide Lessons.
LESSON I.
Theology and Testimony.
First Week in March.
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE.
REBECCA.
(Before this article is read, the account in the Bible should be carefully gone over. Genesis, chapters 24-27.)
Rebecca is a character. A good many women, you know, are not. The same thing, for that matter, may be said of men. Rebecca is more than a name which you vainly strive to develop into a personality. The personality is already there, developed before your eyes, and all you have to do is to see what is set before you — though sometimes you have to use a microscope and always your head. Drawn with the fewest possible strokes — an art known only to those old Bible writers — she stands out in bold relief, a woman of flesh and blood with the eternal values unchanged.
Rebecca is, first of all, a woman of rare physical beauty. On two different occasions we are told that she is "fair to look upon" — once when she stands there at the well in all the glory of her young virginity, fresh, energetic, generous, and then again as she is set over against the fair daughters of the Philistines when she, a matron, goes with her husband to their country, and all unconsciously enamors the lustful king.
The details of her life as given by the sacred writer, are few but tremendously significant. We first see her at the well when the aged servant of Abraham came wife-seeking for Isaac. She is a young woman, overflowing with vitality, physical and spiritual. Out of the kindness of her heart she gives drink to the camels, too, although the stranger has asked drink only for himself. The conversation ended, she "runs," in the picturesque phrase of the Biblical narrative, to her mother and the household, to tell them of the new arrivals. She has courage and decision of character, for when her father and her mother hesitate about sending her to her future husband into a strange country and to a strange people, she immediately answers, "I will go!"
112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
We see her next just before the birth of Esau and Jacob. A sign has occurred which gives her distress and concern. What does she do? Sit and brood in alarm over it or run with the delicate secret to some one who perhaps would know as little about it as the inexperienced young wife? — Not at all she is too self-reliant for that. — Instead she goes to the Lord how we do not know, nor does it matter, but with such faith and trust in him as to obtain an answer that not only comforts and sustains her but reveals the larger purposes of God. "Two nations," she is told of the Lord, "are in thy womb, and two peoples shall be separated even from thy bowels. The one people shall be stronger than the other people and the elder shall serve the younger." Here the Lord condescends to give Rebecca a revelation that touches the future of two peoples.
The next time she appears before us in the narrative is in the famous scene of the transferred blessing, overhearing the now aged Isaac telling his elder son, Esau — the wild, the impulsive, the roaming Esau, — who is loved by the gentle, retiring Isaac more than is the quiet Jacob, to bring him a "savory offering" that he in turn may bless him. Now, this blessing was an important and significant event in the life of a follower of Abraham in those days. So Rebecca induces Jacob, her favorite son, to assume the appearance of the elder son, to anticipate him in the offering, and to receive the blessing in his stead, as he has already received from him the birthright. The plan succeeds.
Rebecca has often been severely censured for this deed. Examination of all the facts in the situation, however, will serve to throw the incident in another light. Isaac is very old — a hundred and thirty-seven years. Moreover, his physical, and perhaps his mental, powers are greatly enfeebled. Rebecca's powers, on the contrary, are as alert as ever, to all appearances. Isaac is about to go counter to what she, and perhaps he, knows is the will of the Lord, as revealed to her. For the Lord told her specifically that "the elder shall serve the younger". Now, she probably knew that she could not accomplish her end by direct means. So she used indirect means. Perhaps she has less implicit faith in the Lord to do his own work than Abraham would have had in the same situation, but that is because she wants to act rather than merely to think. At all events, she is with the Lord, whereas Isaac is about to be, and but for her would actually be, against the Lord.
Her final appearance is when Jacob is sent away to obtain a wife for himself. Esau, forgetful of the covenant, marries daughters of the land. But Jacob must marry from "the seed". So Rebecca suggests that Jacob be sent away to her kindred for a helpmeet.
These facts and incidents show a strong woman, one with
GUIDE LESSONS. 113
an abundant vitality, physical and spiritual, with independence such as one would not expect in the East of the olden time, with a quick, resolute decision of character, and with great insight into the hidden purposes of the Lord, coupled with faith and trust in him, full of resource and tact.
QUESTIONS.
Who was Rebecca? Give each of the four incidents related of her. What characteristics does she exhibit in each? What do you think of her "deception" of Isaac? Show that Rebecca was a suitable companion to her husband. What differences do you observe between the customs of those days and ours?
LESSON II.
Work and Business.
Second Week in March.
LESSON III.
Genealogy and Art.
Third Week in March.
GENEALOGY.
Family Associations.
Most women, when approached with a suggestion to begin their temple work, make the excuse that they are not rich, are not the heir, or that they live at a long distance from a temple. These excuses can all be met with the advice to form a Family Organization. What is impossible to one lone individual becomes easy and pleasant when undertaken by a well-organized group of persons. The single, small contributions make a great sum. The heir will usually be glad to unite with all members of the family, and appoint a temple committee who will have charge of the various phases of the temple work for the family. Genealogical supervisors are requested to study the chapter on Family Organization, found in the Genealogical Lesson Book, to present this week's lesson.
Suggestions: 1. After explaining the lesson, let the supervisor proceed to organize a model family organization right in the class. Let nominations be made for a president, two vice-presidents, secretary and treasurer. Then appoint, or nominate, three to form a Temple Committee, and three for an Amusement Committee. This object lesson will do more towards teaching each woman how to organize her own family, than all the theory in the book.
114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
2. Every woman in the Relief Society is requested to spend at least one day in official work for the dead during 1916. By official, we mean work done for the Relief Society charity lists, which are names furnished to the Genealogical Committee by those who are not financially able to do their own temple work. Where there are no such lists in a ward, they can be obtained from the Chief Recorder in any one of the four temples. Where the sister lives too far from a temple to comply with this suggestion, she may donate sufficient means to the Genealogical Committee of her ward, which will provide a substitute for her. Our reports are arranged to cover these official days spent in the Temple, as well as other official days thus spent. The Jordan and Davis, Liberty and Cache stakes lead all others in this beautiful charity temple work.
QUESTIONS.
Have you a family organization? If not, why not? Why can we do more in an organized way than as individuals? Who is the proper heir in a family? What does your lesson-book say about Family Organization? Did you enjoy and understand the model organization just formed in your class? Have you spent one official day in the temple this year? If not, why not? What do we mean by "official day"? What has your ward done about temple work in the past? What plans can you suggest to improve your work in this line?
OUT-OF-DOOR STUDY.
WINTER WALK.
A. Give a prose sketch or poem on your "Winter Walk." B. Bring a drawing or picture you have made of something you saw during your "Winter Walk." C. What vital impression was made upon you by this experience? What use will this winter landscape study be to you when you go to the next art exhibition? D. Describe a winter landscape that has deeply impressed you at some time of life.
A WINTER WALK.
The writer took her "Winter Walk" in December. It was not a propitious day for study of the snow blanket, but excellent for observation of winter mountain foliage. We went in search of winter decoration for luncheon tables for a very great and festive occasion. Luckily there were several artists on the luncheon committee, and there was no money with which to buy the usual cut flowers. The artists determined that this decoration should not be commonplace.
We shook or scraped the light snow from the wild mountain holly, (Oregon Grapes), now green, and scarlet, and satin-leaved. We gathered stacks to take back to town. We gathered armfuls of the low, bushy green "box" growing under the bare maple and scrub-oak. Down in the sheltered banks of the creek, we pulled, from clumps of joint grass, the tall daintily marked pines — fit for pipes of Pan, had the weather not been too cold for piping! From long stretches of wild rose gardens we stripped twigs (thorned, too), with the wild, red roseberries. We went home with arms filled, and the decorations were not commonplace, and were much admired.
MARCH LANDSCAPE STUDY.
The study of the March landscape has most to do with the sky. The sky must be the theme. The ground is neutral in color. The interest of this month centers in windy weather. The sky shows queer-shaped patches of deep blues, and ultra marines, and splotches of purples, and gray, and big white billowy clouds.
Take your March walk on a windy wash-day, after your clothes are hung out. Take the little "finder." Look for a picture with the line of clothes blowing straight out in the foreground. In the background, you will note the cloud-filled sky will make a repetition of your line of blowing clothes both in color and feeling of motion. A wonderful time of day for this picture is often in the twilight with cottage window red with the lamplight within, in the background.
Or you may find an attractive foreground in a line of purple willows following creeks or surrounding ponds. The sky is sure to complete the picture, if there are clouds. The snowing and blowing day makes a beautiful subject for pictures.
A. You should find at least two pictures in your March Walk and tell which has the best foreground and which the best background. B. Prepare yourself to describe a windy day's sky. C. Study bursts of sunshine and shadow. When clouds obscure the sun's rays, it is called a "Gray Day." Many love this manifestation of nature. D. Study to describe two "March Gray Days." E. Prepare yourself to describe a scene with sunshine bursting through dark clouds. Don't make much of the ground, but confine yourself to telling the color and motion of the clouds.
TWILIGHT STUDY.
A. Make a special study of March twilight on a blowy, cloudy evening, just before rain. Have a house with firelight shining through the window and there will be red or yellow in the sky to repeat the color of the firelight. B. Make a study of twilight indoors with blinds up and a firelight. Have a family around the fire, and note the effect of the two lights, and the shadows made by the firelight. Be prepared to describe such a scene.
What is the Jacobean style? Describe the Classic Period. Contrast the modern method of building and the medieval method (note 2, page 125). What is the style of St. Pauls, Figs. 4 and 5, London? Name its architecture. Describe its exterior and interior. Radcliffe Library, Oxford. Fig. 6. The Classic Revivals. Describe the Bank of England, and name its architect. Tell what you can of the architecture of the British Museum. What can you say of the Mansion House? Fig. 7. Fitz William, Fig. 8. Describe the Victorian Gothic. Tell what you can of the Parliament House, Westminster, Fig. 9. In what ways do the present British architecture and French architecture surpass the other?
LESSON IV.
Home Economics.
Fourth Week in March.
HOME-MAKING AS A PROFESSION.
I. As a Trade or Profession.
1. Meaning of trade.
2. Meaning of profession. a. Learned profession. b. Unlearned profession. c. Home making classified.
3. The human importance of the work. a. Preparations necessary.
GUIDE LESSONS. 117
II. Methods of Acquiring Preparation.
1. In youth. a. At home. b. In the schools.
2. In maturity. a. In the school of experience. b. Desire for improvement. c. Means of improvement. d. Interest of church.
III. The Beauty of Home Work.
1. Drudgery vs. routine. a. Meaning of drudgery. b. Meaning of routine.
2. Cultivate desire. a. To learn. b. To practice.
Home-Making as a Profession.
Roll call: Why I am Glad I am a Woman, or, Reasons for Joy in Womanhood, or, What may this Study of Home Economics Give me? "Home Economics stands for the ideal home life, for today unhampered by the traditions of the past."
I. Home Economics as a Trade or Profession.
1. A trade is an occupation in which the worker is instructed in the performance of certain tasks with the responsibility or power of directing assumed by another. Such is the trade of carpenter, mason, brick-layer, plumber.
2. The work which involves the responsibility of having the many tasks correctly done is in the nature of a profession. Thus the work of the architect or contractor is a profession.
(a) The term "learned profession" is often used. That involves the spending of much time, and may be money, in the learning of the chosen profession, and is usually done by means of attendance at schools and colleges. Such is the profession of law, medicine, architecture and all the liberal arts.
(b) One may learn to assume the responsibility in the performance of great tasks by hard knocks in the school of experience only. Such would not be termed a learned profession. The business of a contractor may be classed here.
(c) In the light of the above definitions where may the great work of home-making be classed? It is simply universal; that is, there are workers of all classes and intelligences engaged in this occupation. But the woman who is the most successful in making a home is in every sense engaged in a learned profession — the greatest one on earth. For she has to initiate, plan, direct, and carry out operations which involve in greater or less degree all the sciences and arts known to man. She also deals with those subtler spiritual powers which make or mar his personal happiness and influence his soul's salvation.
118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
3. The importance of this work, as regards children, can scarcely be over-estimated. Mrs. Fisher has indicated the great responsibility of parents when she says: "We might conceivably have undertaken to build railway bridges, even though the lives of multitudes depended on them; we might have become lawyers and settled people's material affairs for them; or even as doctors settled the matter of their physical life or death. But to be responsible to God, to society, and to the soul in question, for the health, happiness, moral growth and usefulness of a human soul, what reflective parent among the whole army of us has not had moments of heart-sick terror at the realization of what he has been set to do?"
(a) Can any sane person feel that this important work should be undertaken at marriage by girls who rely upon chance occupations at home, supplemented by the much abused "mother instinct"? Do you not feel that all the long years of youth should be devoted to preparing, in a pleasant though serious manner, for this beautiful work of mother and home-maker? And that all during the years of life one should be alert and active in securing improvements in the performance of this God-given occupation. One may never know too much about it.
"There should be no more question as to the need of education and training for the woman who selects the food, clothing and works of art, which minister to the highest welfare of a family, than there is for the need of study on the part of the farmer, manufacturer or the artist who produces them."
II. Methods of Acquiring.
(1) The young woman of today has no excuse for answering "not prepared" when life demands that she assumes her natural place as home-maker.
(a) The ideal way for her to learn her profession is to be a willing helper in a well ordered home always as Mother's first assistant. There she learns, through actual hand contact, the methods and the practice of the scientific truth she has learned in the school room.
4. Mother hasn't time to teach her the theory as well as the practice — even though she knows it. So the schools must supplement this home training, and give boys and girls an intimate understanding of these truths that they are to use most in their after life. All truth is good, but life is so fleeting that one must choose that most worth while.
GUIDE LESSONS. 119
(a) Those who are mothers and grandmothers today need not feel cheated because the schools didn't teach such things in their time. All that God requires of any of his children is that they make the most use of their opportunities, be they few or many. Our grandmothers, many of them, were beautiful housekeepers and splendid mothers. They learned their lessons in the hard school of experience and with the price of much unnecessary suffering. Their daughters may now start life with much of the wisdom they end it with, but the daughters must go on, improve and learn other lessons.
(b) All that is necessary is that the desire for improvement remain with one to the end of life, for the absence of growth is death.
(c) There are many ways in which the mature woman of today may keep up-to-date in matters pertaining to better homes. First, she should keep an open mind and, by means of observation of others in their homes and methods of daily life, find things to avoid, or to accept and make part of her own life. There are so many good books and magazines published that one can never hope to keep up with all of them. But one should be alert to find new books that will be of particular benefit and also if possible to be conversant with at least one good home magazine. In addition there are the extension and correspondence schools provided by the Government and State educational authorities which make possible the bringing of new truth and inspiration to our very doors. So the wide-awake woman of today, be she 16, or 60, or 90 years old, cannot fail to improve her condition of life unless she is willfully blind or lazy.
Just a mention must be made of the splendid work being done by our own Church in providing through all its auxiliary organization lessons which, if accepted, will make the life of every woman in the community richer and more truly useful.
III. A book could be written on the beauty and benefits of home work. Here let it be understood that no work in which man engages on earth can give the soul satisfaction, the complete joy which is experienced by the mother who has raised a noble family and always made a happy home for them.
(1) And in no sense can this work be termed drudgery, unless the one who undertakes it is totally unprepared for it. The performance of a task by rote, in which the mind takes little or no account, may be termed drudgery. To avoid this, the first essential is the proper training. "Whenever one's knowledge of a subject passes the stage of drudgery and becomes a science, its performance immediately becomes a pleasure. The ability to do a thing in the highest known perfection, or even a little better than any one else, is always a source of delight, and it matters little what that something is."
120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
(a) All human work possesses a certain amount of routine of work that must be performed over and over again in the same manner. This is unavoidable with conditions of mortality. Even the artist who paints the most glorious conceptions of nature must clean his brushes and his palette and even his studio. If he cannot afford an assistant, he does it himself. Yet one never hears an artist going around complaining about the drudgery of cleaning his materials! All work must accept its known routine, but the worker must use brains to make the routine as little as possible and to keep its place in the background as does the artist.
2. The essential thing for all to learn is to love their work, to see its possibilities as well as its difficulties, and to make their work their servant instead of their master. This can be done by the home-maker as well as by the doctor.
(a) Indeed the first essential to all good work is joy in the doing of it. So the girl must learn her job just as seriously as the boy learns his. In this the present mothers can do much in making home work as pleasant as possible.
(b) Practice every day finding something uplifting and helpful to your loved ones and do not hesitate to let your daughter or her friend hear you speak of this phase of home work. We always find what we look for — if it is improvement why it is at our very door knocking for entrance. Will you not let it enter?
QUESTIONS.
1. Is home-making a trade, or a profession, and why? Name some trades and professions not mentioned in the lesson.
2. Give your opinion as to the sufficiency of "mother instinct" or "home instinct," in a girl's life.
3. What is the most important phase of home-making, and why is it so?
4. Do you think home-making should be studied as are all professions of men, and why?
5. What is the ideal way of becoming proficient in home-making? Discuss.
6. How may the older women of today improve their home conditions? a. What need has a perfect housekeeper of studying home economics?
7. Do you enjoy housework, and why? a. What is the part you like best, and why? b. What is the part you like least, and why?
8. Define drudgery and routine. a. Under which class do household tasks fall, and why?
GUIDE LESSONS. 121
9. How may the love of home duties be planted in the lives of young men and women? a. How may the mother of a girl "who hates house work" change this fatal opinion.
10. In your opinion, must every human being, who is born a woman, engage in house work? a. If she truly dislikes it, may she with honor engage in the work she loves, and have her home work done for her? What is your solution of this difficulty?
11. Are you doing all in your power to make possible better homes in your community? Name five ways in which you might improve in this respect?
THOU SHALT BE A BLESSING.
(Gen. 12:2.)
Thou shalt be a blessing; Let thine heart be strong; God shall give thee courage, Fill thy lips with song. Fear not thou the future, Through each day shall shine Tokens of God's goodness Over thee and thine.
Thou shalt be a blessing Through the coming year; He the great Deliverer Ever will be near; Strengthening each purpose That is good and true, And in times of weakness He will bear thee through.
Thou shalt be a blessing; Fear not thou to see Tasks yet unattempted, Which are waiting thee. What thy need requireth Surely He will send, Who with watchful kindness Shall thy ways attend.
Thou shalt be a blessing; And in days to come, When God calls His servants To their blessed Home, He will not forget thee, Or thy work of love; All shall be rewarded In those courts above.
— Selected.
Attention To Subscribers
Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 15% discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves.
Please Use Our Subscription Blanks
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
Mothers, educate your daughters —and sons—to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation,
Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at
The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.
"Utah's Most Popular Music House"
Here are some of the things we are going to give away FREE
Fill out and mail coupon today.
Sewing Machine Refrigerator Morris Chair Vacuum Cleaner Hall Chime Clock Kitchen Cabinet
Daynes-Beebe Music Co 45 Main St. Salt Lake, Utah.
R.S.M.
Please send me full information as to how I can obtain one or more of these beautiful premiums FREE.
Name _______________ Address _____________
You don't have to purchase one penny's worth, to get premiums.
"Older than the State of Utah"
Z. C. M. I.
School Shoes For Boys
Are made for service they will keep the boys' feet warm and dry.
Z. C. M. I.
ALLOVERS are the ideal play garment for boys and girls. Cheap, serviceable.
The Most Interesting, Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections of the West
ARE REACHED VIA
Including Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts
Pacific Coast Excursions Daily to November 30th
For Descriptive Literature, address D. E. Burley, General Passenger Agent, O. S L., Salt Lake City, Utah
English and American
ARCHITECTURE
By GEO. M. ALLEN
is in Mrs. Horne's Art Book,
DEVOTEES AND THEIR SHRINES.
Send to this office or to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostler's Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned.
PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID
It's FREE-send for the little book "Cameos"
Three thousand words on Cameos Not a Catalogue, but an interesting, instructive article on Cameos The only book of its kind published
W. M. McCONAHAY, Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
Cameos in Rings, Scarf Pins, Neck Chains and Brooches, write about them
It is Summer in Winter in
CALIFORNIA
Mid-winter Excursion TO CALIFORNIA January 29, 1916
18,500,000 People Carried 839,000,000 Passenger Miles July 1 to November 30, 1915
the SOUTHERN PACIFIC
NOT ONE INJURED
SAFETY plus COMFORT CONVENIENCE plus SCENERY = SATISFIED COURTESY plus SERVICE TRAVELER
Don't Worry, ask C. T. McP., District Passenger Agent, Second Floor Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City, Utah.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
MARCH, 1916.
SPECIAL ARTICLES
MARY FIELDING SMITH With Illustrations
MY FRIEND—POEM L. Lula Greene Richards
RELIEF SOCIETY SCHOOL OF OBSTETRICS Alice Merrill Horne
CURRENT TOPICS James H. Anderson
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c
NOW READY!
A new 800 page volume
"JESUS THE CHRIST"
By DR. JAMES E. TALMAGE
From the Press of The Deseret News
This is the work of which notice has been given in the Official Announcement published by the First Presidency of the Church. It presents the Life and Mission of the Messiah from the view-point of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Bound in half leather, cloth sides, $1.50 post paid
Deseret News Book Store The Leading Book Concern
Sweeten Your Foods with
Good Sugar
With Utah-Idaho Sugar you may sweeten things to the taste and have the benefit of its high food value. The conditions under which Utah-Idaho Sugar is produced tend to make it an excellent article. It will stand the practical test of the housewife and the scientific test of the chemist. It is the sugar that passes a perfect examination under any test.
Ask your grocer for this perfect sugar; you'll be delighted with the results wherever you use it.
Utah-Idaho Sugar ABSOLUTELY PURE
When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction
The Thomas Studio
Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. Established 1877
Phone Was. 1370
STAR PRINTING CO.
SUPERIOR PRINTING
35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY
100 Calling Cards Engraved For $1.50, Postage Paid
Everyone should have a nice calling card, and we want you to call on us for same
Pembroke Company The Home of Fine Stationery and Engraving 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah
Kindly mention this magazine when ordering
The Relief Society Magazine
Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
CONTENTS. MARCH, 1916.
The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo ............................ 121 Mothers in Israel...................Susa Young-Gates 123. My Friend L. Lula Greene Richards 148 The Prince of Ur ' Homespun 149 Relief Society School of Obstetrics. . . . .Alice Merrill Horne 155 Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde 157 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 159 Current Topics James H. Anderson 162 Query Box Hazel Love Dunford 164 Editorial: A Testimony of the Truth of the Gospel 166 Our Delegates in Washington 168 Guide Lessons 169 An Expression of Approval 181
ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY.
Patronize those who advertise with us.
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City. MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. PEMBROKE CO., STATIONERY, 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J, Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City. THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City. TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St., Salt Lake City. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City Utah. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City.
MRS. MARY FIELDING SMITH.
Second wife of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith. Taken from a painting owned by her son, President Joseph F. Smith.
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. III. • MARCH, 1916. No. 3
Mothers in Israel.
By Susa Young Gates.
MARY FIELDING SMITH, WIFE OF THE PATRIARCH HYRUM SMITH.
When the roll of the greatest women of modern times is called, we make no doubt that the name of Lucy Mack Smith will head that roll. The second name on that list will be that of Mary Fielding Smith, the wife of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, and the mother of our President Joseph F. Smith. Her greatness, her power, her beauty and her charm have lain hidden in the modest silence and reserve with which she covered all her own acts. But the pages of history will yet record what she was, what she did and why she is entitled to this exalted rank.
Mary Fielding was born in Honidon, England, July 21, 1801, into the home of a pious, refined, intellectual and educated family. Mary was trained in all the arts of home making. She was given a liberal education for girls in those days, for not only did she receive the usual studies permitted to young ladies of that period, but she added that of music, literature and deportment, for she was a lovely singer, and knew something of that art, as well as cultured and refined in her manners and speech. She inherited a masterly control of financial problems, and early showed the initiative and self-control which later made her so self-reliant and resourceful. To sweetness of disposition, she added strength of mind and power of instant decision. But over all the strength and firmness of her soul she drew the veil of modest womanhood so closely that only her very own realized how great was her gift, how supreme were her powers.
Three of the Fielding family — Joseph, Mercy and Mary — decided to go out of the old home and try their fortunes in that new and promising land of Upper Canada. Joseph and Mercy came first, and settled in Toronto. No doubt their glowing accounts of conditions in that growing city hastened Mary's coming to join them in their quest for better possibilities and conditions than the
124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
old country could afford to aspiring English youth. So Mary came over in 1834. Here they formed the acquaintance of President John Taylor, who was from England. John Taylor was a finely educated and eloquent Methodist reformer. On reaching Toronto, he gathered around him a sturdy congregation of independent religious worshipers. When Parley P. Pratt visited Toronto, in 1837, with his Gospel message, he found a company of intellectual and nobly molded souls who were awaiting that very summons, even if they were unconscious of the fact. There were President John Taylor and his beautiful and highly educated wife, Leonora Cannon Taylor; Joseph, Mercy and Mary Fielding, and Joseph Horne and his sterling wife, Mary Isabella, who was also destined to become one of the great mothers in modern Israel. These were all baptized. Mercy and Mary accompanied their brother Joseph Fielding to Kirtland in 1837, shortly after their baptism. We copy here a remarkably clear and scholarly letter written by Mary to her sister Mercy who was then in Canada. Mary was living in Kirtland, and was not then married. Her clear-cut sentences reveal a logical mind and an educated pen. The spirit of firm faith and unflinching testimony in this letter is an index to her whole character and after life:
Kirtland, 1837.
Mrs. Mercy R. Thompson, Care Wm. Lawes, Churchville.
My Dear Sister: I have this day received a very short note from you, and am glad to learn by Brother Babbitt that you are well and comfortably situated. He tells me he is expecting soon to return to Canada, so that it is unnecessary for me to say much, as he can inform you of the state of things here verbally better than I can by writing, but still I can hardly refrain from sending a few lines. I am now teaching school which I took for one month, the time expires tomorrow when I expect again to be at liberty, or without employment, but I feel my mind pretty much at rest on that subject. I have called upon the Lord for direction and trust he will open my way. I hope you will not fail to remember me at the Throne of Grace. I have no doubt but you have many trials, but I am inclined to think you have not quite so much to endure as I have. Be this as it may, the Lord knows what our intentions are, and he will support us and give us grace and strength for the day, if we continue to put our trust in him and devote ourselves unreservedly to his service. I do thank my heavenly Father for the comfort and peace of mind I now enjoy in the midst of all the confusion and perplexity and raging of the devil against the work of God in this place, for although there is a great number of faithful, precious souls, yea, the salt of the earth,
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 125
yet it may be truly called a place where Satan has his seat; he is frequently stirring up some of the people to strife and contention and dissatisfaction with things they do not understand. I often have, of late, been led to look back on the circumstance of Korah and his company when they rose up against Moses and Aaron. If you read 16th chapter of Numbers you will there find the feelings and conduct of many of the people, and even the elders of Israel in these days, exactly described; whether the Lord will come out today in a similar way or not, I cannot tell. I sometimes think it may be so, but I pray God to have mercy upon us all and preserve us from the power of the great enemy, who knows he has but a short time to work in. We have had a terrible stir with Wm. Parrish the particulars of which I cannot here give you at length. We are not yet able to tell where it will end. I have been made to tremble and quake before the Lord and to call upon him with all my heart almost day and night, as many others have done of late. I believe the voice of prayer has sounded in the House of the Lord some days, from morning till night, and it has been by these means that we have hitherto prevailed, and it is by this means only that I for one expect to prevail. I feel more and more convinced that it is through suffering that we are to be made perfect, and I have already found it to have the effect of driving me nearer to the Lord and so suffering has become a great blessing to me. I have sometimes of late been so filled with the love of God, and felt such assurance of his favor as has made me rejoice abundantly indeed. My heavenly Father has been very gracious unto me, both temporally and spiritually. Since I commenced this letter, a kind sister has proposed my going to stay for a while with her to take charge of two or three children who have been in my school; they purpose giving something besides my board, and I think this will suit me better than a public school, if it is but little. I expect to go there in a day or two, and hope to be quite comfortable as I know the family to be on the Lord's side. The mother is a cousin of Brother Joseph's, and took care of him when a child. Their name is Dort. I felt much pleased to see Sisters Walton and Snider who arrived here on Saturday about noon, having left Brothers Joseph Smith and Brigham about twenty miles from Fairport to evade the mobbers. They were to come home in Dr. Avard's carriage, and expected to arrive about 10 o'clock at night, but to their great disappointment they were prevented in a most grievous manner. They had got within four miles of home, after a very fatiguing journey, much pleased with their visit to Canada and greatly anticipating the pleasure of seeing their homes and families, when they were surrounded with a mob and taken back to Painsville and secured, as was supposed, in a tavern where they intended to hold a mock trial, but to the disappointment of the wretches, the housekeeper
126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
was a member of the Church, who assisted our beloved brethren in making their escape; but, as "Brother Joseph" says, not by a basket let down through the window, but by the kitchen door. No doubt the hand of the Lord was in it, or it could not have been effected. The day had been extremely wet and the night was unusually dark and you may try if you can to conceive what the situation was. They hardly knew which way to start as it had by that time got to be about ten o'clock. The first step they took was to find the woods as quickly as possible where they thought they should be safe, but in order to reach there, they had to lie down in a swamp by an old log, just where they happened to be. So determinedly were they pursued by their mad enemies in every direction, and sometimes so closely, that "Brother Joseph" was obliged to entreat "Brother Brigham" to breathe more softly if he meant to escape. When they would run or walk they took each other by the hand and covenanted to live and die together. Owing to the darkness of the night, their pursuers had to carry lighted torches, which was one means of the escape of our beloved sufferers, as they could see them in every direction while they were climbing over fences or traveling through bush or cane fields, until about 12 o'clock. After traveling, as they suppose, in this manner five or six miles, they found the road which led homeward and saw no more of their pursuers. After traveling on foot along muddy, slippery roads until near three in the morning, they arrived safely at home about fainting with fatigue. He, "Brother Joseph," told us that he knew in his heart when first taken that he would see home before sunrise, and thank God it was so. Notwithstanding all he had to endure, he appeared in the House of the Lord throughout the Sabbath, in excellent spirits, spoke in a very powerful manner, and blessed the congregation in the name of the Lord and I do assure you the Saints felt the blessing, and left the House rejoicing abundantly, returning their blessing upon him. Brother Rigdon, through his great weariness, and a small hurt, received from a fall, did not attend the House, but is now well. I suppose all these things will only add another gem to their crown. I did not think of taking up so much room in relating these circumstances, but I have been as brief as possible. I must now give you an account of a very affecting event which took place in Kirtland Sunday before last. You will, of course, remember a Wm. Clark, a miller who had been a great opposer of our Church, as he and his wife with some of their children and other friends were returning from the Presbyterian-Methodist House, in a very nice carriage. About one minute after they passed the House of the Lord, their horses took fright and started off the side of the hill, and hurt Mrs. C. so seriously as to prove fatal. She was buried on the Wednesday following. She has left six weeping children and a mourning husband. In-
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 127
deed, on the day preceding the accident she was heard to speak very unfavorably of our Church, but is now gone to prove whether it is the Church of Christ or not. I greatly desire that this visitation may be sanctified to the family. I believe it is not quite a year since "Brother Joseph" told Wm. Clark that the curse of God would be upon him for his conduct towards him and the Church. You may remember that our people wished to purchase his place, but he would not sell it on any reasonable terms and therefore kept it, and has been a trouble in the place, but has prospered in business so much as to say he never prospered better, and told a person some time ago that he was ready for another of Joseph Smith's curses. I feel inclined to think he will never be heard to utter such words again. May the Lord forgive and save Mr. Clark, and all others who raise their hand against the Lord's anointed, for I see more clearly than ever that this is no trifling sin in the sight of God. No; it is as great as it was in any age of the world. I sincerely wish that all the preachers of the Church had a proper sense of their duty and privilege in this respect. I expect to hear from you soon and also from England. I hope I shall not be disappointed. Tell me if you and Brother Thomas have any idea of coming to Kirtland this fall. If the field of labor remains open there and unless a change should take place in the state of affairs here for the better, I should not advise it, however much I might desire to see you here. Scores of men are out of employ here even in the summer and how it will be in the winter I cannot tell. But I fear for Kirtland. Oh, that we as a people may be faithful, for this is our only hope, and all we have to depend upon. Give my kind love to Brother Thompson and all other friends, particularly Brother and Sister Laws. I thank them for their kindness to you. I thank Brother Thompson for his last kind letter. I should be pleased with another. I remain. Your very affectionate sister, Mary Fielding.
In November, 1837, Mary was married to the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, his first wife, Jerusha Borden, having died previously. Mary found herself the mother of five step-children, and never did a girl assume motherhood better prepared for such heavy initial responsibilities than Mary Fielding Smith. All her qualities of resourcefulness and courage were to be tested to the uttermost. And it may be truly said that no trial, not even the supreme one of final integrity to the Truth, ever found her lacking courage and the power of right decision. She did not live in borrowed light. She held supremely the light within her own soul. Just before her marriage, she was vitally interested in that
128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
first mission that was taken by Heber C. Kimball to open the European country for the preaching of the gospel of Christ. Her brother Joseph was the companion of Brother Kimball, who planned to visit their brother, Rev. James Fielding, in Preston, where the English mission was opened. Mary and her sister Mercy who had married the Prophet's friend and one-time secretary, Robert B. Thompson, accompanied the party to Fairport. We are told that Brigham Young, Levi Richards, with Brother Kimball's wife, Vilate, and Brother Greene's wife, Rhoda (who was the sister of Brigham Young), with Mary Fielding and Mercy Thompson, all accompanied Heber C. Kimball and Orson Hyde down the river to Fairport. As Brother Kimball was about to separate from this company, without a dollar in his pocket, and sick, yet not discouraged, Mary Fielding, with her characteristic modesty and the quiet generosity which was so much a part of her nature, stepped up to him and put five dollars in his hand. It was a God-send, and paid his and Brother Hyde's passage to Buffalo.
From this time, Mary's history is merged in that of her greater husband, Hyrum Smith. She shared his trials, she sweetened his daily life with her wifely ministrations, and above all she relieved him of every anxiety connected with the care and rearing of his five motherless children. For the heart of her husband could safely trust in her.
On the first day of November, 1838, while she was in a delicate condition of health, indeed, thirteen days before her oldest child, Joseph Fielding, was born, she was informed that her husband had been betrayed by Col. George M. Hinkle into the hands of the mob at Far West, and on the day following they told her that she "had seen her husband for the last time." Her son Joseph Fielding Smith, our present President of the Church, was born to his tortured mother while under this black cloud of oppression. She lingered on that bed of affliction for four months, unable to rally from the blow which had been dealt her life-forces. Three months after, she was taken in a wagon on her sick bed to see her husband, then confined with the Prophet Joseph Smith as a prisoner in Liberty jail, Clay County, Mo. Still confined to her bed, she was driven in her wagon from Far West out of the state of Missouri, together with the rest of the "Mormon" refugees. After untold sorrows and pains, trials and afflictions, she, together with the little family which she held together with Spartan fortitude, reached Quincy, Ill., where she was at last joined by her loving husband on April 22, 1839. What a picture of persecution and human suffering is confined in that six months of separation. You who go quietly in and out of beautiful and safe homes, can you realize what this frail and loving mother in Israel endured during that soul-racking period? Oh, daughters of Zion, stop and reflect upon the foundation stones
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 129
laid for us by those heroic mothers who planted their feet with the blood of sacrifice and builded their walls in their own bones and bodies. What scenes float before the vision as these incidents unroll before our eyes. No wonder the Prophet asked to have the vision blotted out from his eyes.
In May, 1839, the Patriarch moved his family to Nauvoo, where Mary thereafter resided till the expulsion from Nauvoo. Some time after arriving in Nauvoo, Mary gave birth to her second and last child, Martha Ann, who is still living in Provo, and who is later spoken of in this sketch.
In 1841, Mary set in motion the organization of a simple and modest fund which was called "The Sisters' Penny Subscription" for the purpose of buying nails and glass for the Nauvoo Temple. So quietly did this plan operate that only the briefest mention is made of it in the periodicals of the day but it worked something of a financial miracle, for hundreds of dollars were thus collected. Who may say that this initiative on the part of Mary Fielding Smith was not productive of much of the later organized effort put forth by the women of the Church? The Relief Society was not then in operation; this fund was specifically directed for Temple purposes, and it accomplished its end. We who fancy that today sees the full flower of the powers and genius of woman for organized effort, would do well to study the annals of the earlier heroines of the Church who laid their foundation stones so deep and broad that it is given to us simply to build upon them as best we may. Think of this burdened woman, the mother of two children, the step-mother of four more, and the caretaker of all the poor unfortunates whom her tender-hearted husband brought constantly into her welcoming home — think of this delicately reared lady, herself frail but like sprung steel in composition, think of her ye daughters of Zion, going about to gather in pennies from the women of Nauvoo to buy the glass and nails for that wondrous Temple in Nauvoo. Our teachers of today who go out from time to time ministering and teaching under the most comfortable modern conditions, can scarcely realize the struggles made in those early days by these heroic mothers in Israel.
When the scenes and sufferings incident to the martyrdom fell upon the families of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his devoted brother Hyrum, who may tell the agony of suspense, the torture of fear which shook the breasts of the women who waited in vain for that release from prison, which had been miraculously given so often before. Few thought that the arrest would terminate fatally, for the Prophet had been so imprisoned and haled into courts over forty times by his enemies. Yet this time, the Prince and powers of the air held sway and the blood of the martyrs cried from the ground of Illinois.
130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Who can guess the gloom and misery which filled the home of Mary Fielding Smith, when her husband was brought cold in death to receive the last rites from his friends. But here and now was the supreme test of that majestic spirit of the martyred Patriarch's wife, Mary. Was she a true convert to the gospel as preached by Christ, and afterwards revealed again to the earth through the Prophet Joseph Smith? Had she the courage of her conversion? Would she now falter and turn aside in this awful crisis? We do not know just what followed the martyrdom in the homes of the wives of those great heroes, but this we do know that when the Twelve, led by Brigham Young, decided to come out to the West, the widow of the Prophet Joseph, Emma Hale Smith, refused to accompany them on this journey. She was approached by the messenger of President Brigham Young three times, for Bishop Whitney often told the story in the presence of our honored president of the Relief Society, Emmeline B. Wells, of how President Brigham Young sent him (Bishop Whitney) to offer every help and assistance to Sister Emma Smith to convey her and her household with the body of the Church to their first stopping place — Winter Quarters. President George A. Smith related many times, in the presence of his nephew, Joseph F. Smith, now president of the Church, the story of how he (Brother George A. Smith) went to his Aunt Emma, seeking to reconcile her to President Brigham Young, offering every help and inducement to come to Nauvoo with the Twelve and the body of the Church. But she was obdurate, and continued her refusal. No doubt, she felt she had ample justification, but whatever her motive, she failed in this supreme test. But the wife of the Patriarch did not fail — she triumphed gloriously. The Church offered every inducement to the Prophet's widow to come West but "Widow" Smith, the widow of the Patriarch, was left alone to make her plans and to devise her own schemes. This test was the cap-sheaf of all her other trials and tests. But she rose supremely to the occasion, for her whole life of self-sacrifice, toil, fortitude, faith and integrity had prepared her for this hour. If she had failed, her beloved son would not now be the President of this Church. She did not, she could not fail — for she had the divine light of testimony in her own soul.
Mary Fielding Smith was not only subjected to the bitter trials of her violent widowhood and left with the care of her own two little children, and the care and charge of her step-children whom she guarded and loved as her own, she was also left alone, as it were to fight her life-battles. The position of the Church itself was no doubt sufficient excuse for her forgotten condition, for all were poor, all were weighed down with sorrow and affliction. Yet in the midst of these most trying circum-
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 131
stances, the faith and courage of this woman of God shone out like a star of hope and a bow of radiant promise. Yet she was beset by foes without and fears within. One day her little son Joseph sat in the upper chamber of her Nauvoo home into which chamber ran the pipe of the sitting-room stove below, thus making it possible to hear distinctly the voices of those below in the sitting room. The boy knew that his brother John had left secretly, or at least quietly, in the company of Brother Heber C. Kimball, with the first company of refugees from Nauvoo who crossed the ice to begin their journey for the unknown West. He knew also that his mother would follow with her little family sooner or later. But he was startled to hear the voice of his uncle William Smith below one day, lifted in angry expostulation with his loved mother for permitting her son John to be "spirited away." The boy heard his uncle demand the return of the Patriarch's son, and as the mother quietly and firmly refused to accede to the angry man's insensate demand, he became so violent and abusive in his language that the boy upstairs longed for age and maturity in order that he might defend his helpless mother from such unwarranted and bitter assaults. And still Mary Fielding Smith remained firm and unshaken in her allegiance to the gospel, and she accepted without question the succession of the Twelve to the leadership of the Church. Neither the cajolery nor the threats of William Smith could move her from her testimony or her determination. This invincible faith and determination, if nothing else were at hand, would convince a candid mind that she was one of the world's greatest souls.
It would be unjust at this time not to mention the loving ministrations and support of her sister, Mercy Fielding Thompson, who had been a widow for some time. Mercy and Mary were often called the Mary and Martha of the modern dispensation. Yet both were spiritual, both were temporal. And both were beautiful in spirit and in body. Mercy lived with her sister at this time, and their brother Joseph, although he had two wives and a large family of his own to look after, never failed these young widows.
Another tragic circumstance which occurred at this time serves to illustrate the unflinching fortitude of this great woman. One day the Prophet's wife Emma sent word to Mary that she was going to disinter the bodies of the martyrs, and place them in a hidden spot, as they feared removal by others. Then, late in the afternoon word came to Mary that the plan was postponed. So she went quietly to bed with her children. About midnight, she was suddenly impressed that there was something wrong. She got up, dressed, threw a shawl over her head and ran down to the burial spot, where her husband lay. She caught the conspirators in the act of removal. And she refused to move or be put off. She
132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
remained until she saw the removal of the bodies, and knew exactly where they were placed in their new burial. Her small son Joseph himself visited the sacred yet now desecrated spot the next morning, saw the open grave, and noted that his uncle Don Carlos' coffin had been broken off at one end in their haste of the night before, exposing the earth worms in their ravages of what was once a loved human form. What scenes of woe and horror has this widow and her little son not witnessed? And still she remained firm in her allegiance to the gospel.
The reader will ask —"Where are these consecrated Ones now buried? Who can tell? When you hear that wondrously plaintive song, "The Unknown Grave," it pictures the mystery and the loneliness of the last resting place of the greatest Prophets the world has seen, save and excepting only the Lord Jesus Christ. It is a mystery! If we all knew where these beloved bodies were laid, when the time comes for their resurrected bodies to arise — if that event has not already long since taken place — there would be those who might dig up the sacred remains to attempt to prove what would not be possible.
To read the epic of "Widow" Smith's journey from Winter Quarters to the Valley as written for the old Faith-promoting Series, is to know what woman can do and what woman has done in the face of every opposing foe to her progress and independence. We quote the following excerpts from that narrative:
"At the death of the Patriarch, June 27th, 1844, the care of the family fell upon his widow, Mary Smith. Besides the children there were two old ladies named respectively, Hannah Grinnels, who had been in the family many years, and Margaret Brysen. There was also a younger one, named Jane Wilson, who was troubled with fits and otherwise afflicted, and was, therefore, very dependent, and an old man, named George Mills, who had also been in the family eleven years, and was almost entirely blind and very crabbed. These and others, some of whom had been taken care of by the Patriarch out of charity, were members of the family and remained with them until after they arrived in the valley. 'Old George,' as he was sometimes called, had been a soldier in the British army, had never learned to read or write, and often acted upon impulse more than from the promptings of reason, which made it difficult, sometimes, to get along with him, but because he had been in the family so long — through the troubles of Missouri and Illinois — and had lost his eyesight from the effects of brain fever and inflammation, caused by taking cold while in the woods getting out timbers for the temple at Nauvoo, Widow Smith bore patiently all his peculiarities up to the time of her death. Besides those I have mentioned, Mercy R. Thompson, sister to Widow Smith, and her daughter, and Elder James Lawson were also members of the family.
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 133
"On or about the 8th of September, 1846, the family, with others, were driven out of Nauvoo by the threats of the mob, and encamped on the banks of the Mississippi River, just below Montrose. There they were compelled to remain two or three days, in view of their comfortable homes just across the river, unable to travel for the want of teams, while the men were preparing to defend the city against the attack of the mob. They were thus under the necessity of witnessing the commencement of the memorable "Battle of Nauvoo,' but, before the cannonading ceased, they succeeded in moving out a few miles, away from the dreadful sound of it, where they remained until they obtained, by a change of property at a great sacrifice, teams and an outfit for the journey through Iowa to the Winter Quarters of the Saints, now Florence, Nebraska. Arriving at that point late in the fall, they were obliged to turn out their work animals to pick their living through the Winter, during which some of their cattle, and eleven out of their thirteen horses died, leaving them very destitute of teams in the spring.
"In the fall of 1847, Widow Smith and her brother, Joseph Fielding, made a trip into Missouri, with two teams, to purchase provisions for the family. Joseph, her son, accompanied them as teamster; he was then nine years of age. The team he drove consisted of two yoke of oxen, one yoke being young and only partially broken, which, with the fact that the roads were very bad with the fall rains, full of stumps in places, sometimes hilly, and that he drove to St. Joseph, Missouri, and back, a distance of about three hundred miles, without meeting with one serious accident, proves that he must have been a fair teamster for a boy of his age.
"In the Spring of 1847, George Mills was fitted out with a team and went in the company of President Young as one of the Pioneers to the Valley; and soon a portion of the family in the care of Brother James Lawson emigrated from 'Winter Quarters,' arriving in the Valley that Fall.
"In the Spring of 1848, a tremendous effort was made by the Saints to emigrate to the Valley on a grand scale. No one was more anxious than Widow Smith; but to accomplish it seemed an impossibility. She still had a large and comparatively helpless family. Her two sons, John and Joseph, mere boys, being her only support — the men folks, as they were called. Brother J. Lawson and G. Mills, being in the Valley with the teams they had taken. Without teams sufficient to draw the number of wagons necessary to haul provisions and outfit for the family, and without means to purchase, or friends who were in circumstances to assist, she determined to make an attempt, and trust in the Lord for the issue. Accordingly every nerve was strained, and every available object was brought into requisition. 'Jackie' was
134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
traded off for provisions, cows and calves were yoked up, two wagons lashed together, and teams barely sufficient to draw one was hitched on to them, and in this manner they rolled out from Winter Quarters some time in May. After a series of the most amusing and trying circumstances, such as sticking in the mud, doubling teams up all the little hills, and crashing at ungovernable speed down the opposite sides, breaking wagon tongues and reaches, upsetting, and vainly endeavoring to control wild steers, heifers and unbroken cows, they finally succeeded in reaching the Elk Horn, where the companies were being organized for the plains.
"Here Widow Smith reported herself to President Kimball, as having 'started for the Valley.' Meantime, she had left no stone unturned or problem untried, which promised assistance in effecting the necessary preparations for the journey. She had done her utmost, and still the way looked dark and impossible.
"President Kimball consigned her to Captain ___'s fifty. The captain was present; said he, 'Widow Smith, how many wagons have you?' Seven. " 'How many yoke of oxen have you?' " 'Four, and so many cows and calves.' " 'Well,' said the captain, 'Widow Smith, it is folly for you to start in this manner; you never can make the journey, and if you try it, you will be a burden upon the company the whole way. My advice to you is, go back to Winter Quarters and wait till you can get help.'
"This speech aroused the indignation of Joseph, who stood by and heard it; he thought it was poor consolation to his mother, who was struggling so hard, even against hope as it were, for her deliverance and if he had been a little older it is possible that he would have said some very harsh things to the captain; but as it was, he busied himself with his thoughts and bit his lips.
"Widow Smith calmly replied, 'Father (he was an aged man), 'I will beat you to the Valley and will ask no help from you either!'
"This seemed to nettle the old gentleman, for he was of high mettle. It is possible that he never forgot this prediction, and that it influenced his conduct towards her more or less from that time forth as long as he lived, and especially during the journey.
"While the companies were lying at Elk Horn, Widow Smith sent back to Winter Quarters, and by the blessing of God, succeeded in buying on credit, and hiring for the journey, several yoke of oxen from brethren who were not able to emigrate that year, (among these brethren one Brother Rogers was ever gratefully remembered by the family). When the companies were ready to start, Widow Smith and her family were somewhat
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 135
better prepared for the journey and rolled out with lighter hearts and better prospects than favored their egress from Winter Quarters.
"Passing over from the Platte to the Sweetwater, the cattle suffered extremely from the heat, the drought, and the scarcity of feed, being compelled to browse on dry rabbit brush, sage brush, weeds and such feed as they could find, all of which had been well picked over by the preceding companies. Captain ___'s company being one of the last, still keeping along, frequently in sight of, and sometimes camping with President Kimball's company which was very large. One day as they were moving along slowly through the hot sand and dust, the sun pouring down with excessive heat, toward noon one of Widow Smith's best oxen laid down in the yoke, rolled over on his side, and stiffened out his legs spasmodically, evidently in the throes of death. The unanimous opinion was that he was poisoned. All the hindmost teams, of course, stopped, the people coming forward to know what was the matter. In a short time the captain, who was in advance of the company, perceiving that something was wrong, came to the spot. Perhaps no one supposed that the ox would ever recover. The captain's first words on seeing him, were:
" 'He is dead, there is no use working with him; we'll have to fix up some way to take the Widow along, I told her she would be a burden upon the company.'
"Meantime Widow Smith had been searching for a bottle of consecrated oil in one of the wagons, and now came forward with it, and asked her brother, Joseph Fielding, and the other brethren, to administer to the ox, thinking the Lord would raise him up. They did so, pouring a portion of the oil on the top of his head, between and back of the horns, they all laid hands upon him, and one prayed, administering the ordinance as they would have done to a human being that was sick. Can you guess the result? In a moment he gathered his legs under him, and at the first word arose to his feet, and traveled right off as well as ever. He was not even unyoked from his mate. The captain, it may well be supposed, heartily regretted his hasty conclusions and unhappy expressions. They had not gone very far when another and exactly similar circumstance occurred. This time also it was one of her best oxen, the loss of either would have effectually crippled one team, as they had no cattle to spare. But the Lord mercifully heard their prayers, and recognized the holy ordinance of anointing and prayer, and the authority of the Priesthood when applied in behalf of even a poor dumb brute! Sincere gratitude from more than one heart in that family, went up unto the Lord that day for His visible interposition in their behalf. At or near a place called Rattlesnake Bend, on the Sweet-
136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
water, one of Widow Smith's oxen died of sheer old age, and consequent poverty. He had been comparatively useless for some time, merely carrying his end of the yoke without being of any further service in the team; he was therefore no great loss.
"At the last crossing of the Sweetwater, Widow Smith was met by James Lawson, with a span of horses and a wagon, from the Valley. This enabled her to unload one wagon, and send it, with the best team, back to Winter Quarters to assist another family the next season. Elder Joel Terry returned with the team. At this place the captain was very unfortunate, several of his best cattle and a valuable mule laid down and died, supposed to have been caused by eating poisonous weeds. There was no one in the camp who did not feel a lively sympathy for the captain, he took it to heart very much. He was under the necessity of obtaining help, and Widow Smith was the first to offer it to him, but he refused to accept of it from her hands. Joseph sympathized with him, and would gladly have done anything in his power to aid him; but here again, it is painful to say, he repulsed his sympathy and chilled his heart and feelings more and more by insinuating to others, in his presence, that Widow Smith had poisoned his cattle! Saying, 'Why should my cattle, and nobody's else, die in this manner? There is more than a chance about this. It was well planned,' etc., expressly for his ear. This last thrust was the severing blow. Joseph resolved, some day, to demand satisfaction not only for this, but for every other indignity the captain had heaped upon his mother.
"On the 22nd of September, 1848, Captain ___'s fifty crossed over the "Big Mountain," when they had the first glimpse of Salt Lake Valley. It was a beautiful day. Fleecy clouds hung round over the summits of the highest mountains, casting their shadows down the valley beneath, heightening, by contrast, the golden hue of the sun's rays which fell through the openings upon the dry bunchgrass and sage-brush plains, gilding them with fairy brightness, and making the arid desert to seem like an enchanted spot. Every heart rejoiced and with lingering fondness, wistfully gazed from the summit of the mountain upon the western side of the valley revealed to view —the goal of their wearisome journey. The ascent from the east was gradual, but long and fatiguing for the teams. It was in the afternoon, therefore, when they reached the top. The descent to the west was far more precipitous and abrupt. They were obliged to rough-lock the hind wheels of the wagons, and, as they were not needed, the forward cattle were turned loose to be driven to the foot of the mountain or to the camp, the "wheelers" only being retained on the wagons. Desirous of shortening the next day's journey as much as possible — as that was to bring them into the Valley— they drove on till a late hour in the night, over very rough roads
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 137
much of the way, and skirted with oak brush and groves of trees. They finally camped near the eastern foot of the "Little Mountain." During this night's drive several of Widow Smith's cows — that had been turned loose from the teams —were lost in the brush. Early next morning John returned on horseback to hunt for them, their service in the teams being necessary to proceed.
"At an earlier hour than usual the captain gave orders for the company to start — knowing well the circumstances of the widow, and that she would be obliged to remain till John returned with the lost cattle — accordingly the company rolled out, leaving her and her family alone.
"It was fortunate that Brother James Lawson was with them, for he knew the road, and if necessary could pilot them down the canyon in the night. Joseph thought of his mother's prediction at Elk Horn, and so did the captain, and he was determined that he would win this point, although he had lost all the others, and prove her predictions false.
"I will beat you to the Valley, and ask no help from you either," rang in Joseph's ears; he could not reconcile these words with the possibility, though he knew his mother always told the truth, but how could this come true? Hours to him, seemed like days as they waited, hour after hour for John's return. All this time the company was slowly tugging away up the mountains, lifting at the wheels, geeing and hawing, twisting along a few steps, then blocking the wheels for the cattle to rest and take breath, now doubling a team, and now a crowd rushing to stop a wagon, too heavy for the exhausted team, to prevent its rolling backward down the hill, dragging the cattle along with it. While in this condition, to heighten the distress and balk the teams, a cloud, as it were, burst over their heads, sending down the rain in torrents as it seldom rains in this country, this threw the company into utter confusion. The cattle refused to pull, would not face the beating storm, and to save the wagons from crashing down the mountain, upsetting, etc., they were obliged to unhitch them, and block all the wheels. While the teamsters sought shelter, the storm drove the cattle before it through the brush and into the ravines, and into every nook they could find, so that when it subsided it was a day's work to find them, and get them together. Meantime Widow Smith's cattle — except those lost — were tied to the wagons, and were safe. In a few moments after the storm, John brought up those which had been lost, and they hitched up, making an early start as they usually did in the mornings, rolled up the mountain, passing the company in their confused situation, and feeling that every tie had been sundered that bound them to the captain, continued on to the Valley, and arrived at "Old Fort," about ten o'clock on the night of the 23rd of September, all well and
138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
thankful. The next morning was the Sabbath, and the whole family went to the bowery to meeting. Presidents Young and Kimball preached. This was a meeting long to be remembered by those present. That evening Captain ___ and his company arrived, dusty and weary, too late for the excellent meetings and the day of sweet rest enjoyed by the widow and her family. Once more, in silver tones, rang through Joseph's ears, 'Father, I will beat you to the Valley, and will ask no help from you either.'
After arriving in the Valley, Sister Smith at once set about securing a home for her large and dependent family. By diligent exchange and barter, she managed to live through the first winter. She made arrangements to take up a farm in the spring of 1849, about six miles south of the city, in what was then Sugar House Ward. She knew how to organize all her forces, and in the course of two years she had made a comfortable home, and had secured quite a bit of valuable property. This was accomplished with the least possible friction and fuss, only those nearest to her knowing just how she did this remarkable thing, and only those guessing at what a cost to her own life and vitality. Where men were going about seeking charity, and asking for a day's work or a cup of food at the hands of the Church, this indefatigable woman gathered enough to leave her family in comfortable circumstances. She was the soul of thrift and economy, of industry and tireless energy. She worked early and late, and she taught others around her, no matter how small her children might be, the lesson of frugal industry and constant toil. She has many descendants today who have inherited these priceless gifts. She was not only thrifty and honest in all her dealings with her fellow-men, but she was equally exacting in her relations with the Lord. She was an honest and generous tithe-payer. Her products and her increase were inexorably tithed to their latest iota. Not only did she pay her tithing in kind, but she paid it
[IMAGE: PRES. JOSEPH F. SMITH As a young man. Taken in Denmark in 1875.]
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 139
also out of the first and finest of her fruitage. The coming of Widow Smith to the old tithing office where now stands the Hotel Utah, with her wagon-load of potatoes or produce, was the signal for a grand scramble among the patrons and clerks of that office. For everybody knew that the very finest potatoes in her pit had been carefully selected out by herself and her sons to bring to the Tithing Office. And certain men who got their living from that office had left standing orders for all of Widow Smith's tithing to be kept for their own consumption. Still, knowing this, for it was told her, this honest and God-fearing woman went quietly on her business and always paid of her very best selected stock into the storehouse of the Lord, regardless of who might profit thereby. She knew she would lose nothing but had everything to gain.
One day, she came up with a particularly inviting load of provisions, and the clerk of the Office said to her, "Widow Smith, it's a shame for you, a struggling widow with many depending on you for support, to come here with your tithing. Look at so-and-so's sons; they toil not neither do they spin; ride fast ponies and idle away their time, while you help to support them, for their father lives out of this office. You ought to be supported by the Church, instead of paying your hard earnings here."
"Brother," she said, sternly, "would you deprive me of my blessing? It is nothing to me what others do, as for me and my house we will serve the Lord."
The strenuous labors of this naturally frail woman, finally had their effect. She came to the city in the early fall of 1852, when she was but 51 years of age, and went to the home of President Heber C. Kimball for a short visit. Here she was taken ill, but exercised her indomitable faith to be healed once more. It was not to be. She lingered in great distress for several weeks, and, finally, on Sept. 21st, 1852, she breathed her last surrounded with her loving friends and her adoring family. Her last expressed wish was to live to rear her little flock, and her only concern seemed to be the welfare of others. She had never considered her own comfort or well-being, but had served her loved ones all her life. And now, her weary hands laid down the heavy burden, while the mighty spirit still cried out for more time in which to strive, to suffer and to serve. What a majesty of going was there. No thought but service, no desire but love. Mary Fielding Smith was a saint, if ever one lived on this troubled earth. She was a heroine in her own right, and by reason of her greatness of spirit and soul. She was beautiful to look upon. When she and her equally handsome sister, Mercy, came to Kirtland in 1837, trim, straight, dark-haired and dark-eyed, with
140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
delicately blooming cheeks and finely molded, graceful figures, clad in dainty silks of modest grace, they were the observed of all observers. Their refined and stately ways made them a shining mark in Kirtland society. Wherever they went they were spoken of as those "lovely English girls." Refinement, strength, courage, integrity, modesty and infinite sweetness and tenderness, these were the prevailing characteristics of the Fielding sisters. We wish there were more like them today.
Mary Fielding Smith was married late in life, but she has given to this Church and to this country a progeny that has become world-wide in some of its members. She has given to the state descendants of so clean, so honorable, so vigorous and manly a character that their like is scarcely found in all Israel. She has bequeathed to the female descendants her beauty, her slender proportions, her intense activity, her honor, her exquisite courage in moral affairs. Who that has dared to assail even the least of them with a charge of dishonor or incompetency? And when we consider the debt this Church owes her for just that one son of hers — our beloved President Joseph F. Smith — we wonder that motherhood could be made on this earth so glorious. No man, no leader since the "Prophet" and Brigham Young, has been so respected, so loved, so reverenced, and so followed as has her splendid son, our leader of today. President Joseph F. Smith is the first president of the Church who was born under the covenant. If mothers would learn how this great mother in Israel achieved this marvel of motherhood, let them read these simple annals. Observe closely what this mother did, how she wrought, and above all, how she fortified herself to stand the tests of time, widowhood, poverty, loneliness, neglect, vituperation, scorn, and finally death — for she, like her honored husband, sealed her testimony in her dying words to her children.
Of such is the kingdom of heaven.
We add to this narrative the names of her two children, and their descendants. We need say little of President Joseph F. Smith, for he is before the people daily, and his life is an open book. Yet few realize how closely he has followed the wise examples and teachings of his great mother. He is prudent, careful, generous to a fault, sympathetic to all helplessness and suffering, wise, modest with the true humility of the spirit, reticent, instant in decision, a lion in courage, and so filled with light that he needs borrow of no man.
The people are not so well acquainted with Martha Ann Harris, the daughter of Mary Fielding Smith. For, like her mother, she is modest, retiring, and gentle. She is frugal and very industrious. Her husband has never "enjoyed good health," and his wife has labored in season and out for the maintenance of her large family. She has sewed buckskin gloves, in the days
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 141
long gone, and was an expert at fashioning those elegant appointments for the pioneer dandy. Later, she undertook the nursing of the sick; most of it was done, however, for sweet charity's sake. Then came sewing. And of late years she has been a recognized authority in the fashioning of temple and burial clothing. She has reared her large family in the fear of the Lord and they have risen up to bless her in the gates. She has had many severe bodily injuries, but by faith — and she is very devout and full of living faith in the ordinances of the gospel — she has been healed time and time again. She has lived in Provo for many years from whence her children have gone out to colonize and build up many other places. But she still lives there, beloved of her family and respected and honored by all who know her.
[IMAGE: Mrs. Martha A. Smith Harris, daughter of Mary Fielding Smith, and her three oldest boys.]
There has been some question in the ranks of the Reorganites as to the right of succession through the Prophet's or the Patriarch's family. It is a divine truth that no man shall succeed to the priesthood, no matter what his birth or lineage, unless his life and conduct justify and qualify him for that inheritance. But there is a peculiar force and significance in the patriarchal blessing given by Father Joseph Smith to his son Hyrum in Kirtland, Dec. 9, 1834, as quoted in Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr.'s Origin of the Reorganized Church. We read there:
142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
A PATRIARCHAL BLESSING
Given by Patriarch Joseph Smith on the head of his son Hyrum, December 9, 1834, in Kirtland, Ohio:
"I now ask my heavenly Father in the name of Jesus Christ, to bless thee with the same blessing with which Joseph blessed his son Joseph, for thou art his true descendant, and thy posterity shall be numbered with the house of Ephraim, and with them thou shalt stand up to crown the tribes of Israel, when they come shouting to Zion. * * *
"The Lord will multiply his choice blessings upon thee and thy seed after thee, and thou with them shall have an inheritance in Zion, and they shall possess it from generation to generation, and thy name shall never be blotted out from among the just, for the righteous shall rise up, and also thy children after thee, and say thy memory is just, that thou wert a just man and perfect in thy day."
Mary Fielding Smith was the mother of two children: Joseph Fielding Smith, born 13th November, 1838, at Far West, Caldwell County, Mo.; and of Martha Ann Smith, born 14th May, 1841, at Nauvoo, Hancock county, Ill.
Joseph Fielding Smith m. (firstly) 5th Apr., 1859, Levira A. Smith, dau. of Samuel H. and Levira Clark Smith. She d., and he m. (secondly) 5th May, 1866, Julina Lambson, of Salt Lake City, b. 18th June, 1849, dau. of Alfred and Melissa J. (Bigler) Lambson; m. (thirdly), 1st Mar., 1868, Sarah E. Richards, b. 25th Aug., 1850, dau. of Willard and Sarah (Longstroth) Richards; m. (fourthly), 1st Jan., 1871, Edna Lambson, b. 3rd Mar., 1851, dau. of Alfred B. and Melissa J. B. Lambson; m. (fifthly), 6th Dec., 1883, Alice Kimball, b. 6th Sept., 1858, dau. of Heber C. and Ann (Gheen) Kimball; m. (sixthly), 13th Jan., 1884, Mary T. Schwartz, b. 30th Apr., 1865, dau. of William and Agnes (Taylor) Schwartz.
Issue by 2d m. I. Mercy Josephine, b. 14th Aug., 1867; d. 6th June, 1870. II. Mary Sophronia, b. 7th Oct., 1869; m. Alfred W. Peterson. III. Donette, b. 17th Sept., 1872; m. Alonzo P. Kesler. IV. Joseph F., Jr., b. 19 July, 1876; m. first, Louie Shurtliff; second, Ethel Reynolds. V. David Asael, b. 24th May, 1879; m. Emily Jenkins. VI. George Carlos, b. 14 Aug., 1881; m. Lillian Emery. VII. Julina Clarissa, b. 10 Feb., 1884; m. Joseph S. Peery. VIII. Elias Wesley, b. 21st Apr., 1886; m. Mary Smith. IX. Emily, b. 11th Sept., 1888. X. Rachel, b. 11th Dec., 1890; m. Le Roy Taylor. XI. Edith, b. 3rd Jan., 1894.
[Note: There appears to be some garbled text/genealogical data in the original that I've omitted as it's largely illegible]
144 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Issue by 3d m. I. Sarah Ellen, b. 5th Feb., 1869; d. 11th Feb., 1869. II. Leonora, b. 30th Jan., 1871; d. 23rd Dec., 1907; m. Joseph H. Nelson. III. J. Richards, b. 22d Feb., 1873; unm. IV. Heber John, b. 3d July, 1876; d. 3d May, 1887. V. Rhoda Ann, b. 20th July, 1878; d. 6th July, 1879. VI. Minerva, b. 30th Apr., 1880; m. Matthew Miller. VII. Alice, b. 27th July, 1882; d. 29 Apr., 1901. VIII. Willard R., b. 20th Nov., 1884; m. Florence Grant. IX. Franklin R., b. 12th May, 1888; m. Ella Olson. X. Jenetta, b. 25th Aug., 1891; unm. XI. Asenath, b. 29th Dec., 1898; unm.
Issue by 4th m. I. Hyrum Mack, b. 21st Mar., 1872; m. Ida Bowman. II. Alvin F., b. 7th Aug., 1874; m. Amelia Atkins. III. Alfred Jason, b. 13th Dec., 1876; d. 6th Apr., 1877. IV. Edna Melissa, b. 6th Oct., 1879; m. John F. Bowman. V. Albert Jesse, b. 16th Sept., 1881; d. 25th Aug., 1883. VI. Robert, b. 12th Nov., 1883; d. 4th Feb., 1886. VII. Emma, b. 21st Aug., 1888; unm. VIII. Zina, b. 11th Oct., 1890; m. Ambrose Greenwall. IX. Ruth, b. 21st Dec., 1893; d. 17th Mar., 1898. X. Martha, b. 12th May, 1897; m. Harold Jenson.
Issue by 5th m. I. Lucy Mack, b. 14th Apr., 1890; m. Ralph Carter. II. Andrew K., b. 6th Jan., 1893. III. Jesse K., b. 21st May, 1896; m. May Anderson. IV. Fielding K., b. 9th Apr., 1898.
Issue by 6th m. I. John S., b. 20th Aug., 1888; d. Aug., 1889. II. Calvin S., b. 29th May, 1890. III. Samuel S., b. 26th Oct., 1892. IV. James S., b. 13th Nov., 1894. V. Agnes, b. 3d Nov., 1897. VI. Silas, b. 3d Jan., 1900. VII. Royal, b. 21st May, 1906.
MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 145
His grandchildren are:
GRANDCHILDREN OF JULINA L. SMITH.
Mary Sophronia, married Alfred W. Peterson. They had: Alfred W., Mary, George, Albert W., Joseph, Hyrum.
Donette, married Alonzo P. Kesler. They had: Donette, Marian, Alonzo P., Jr., Henry, Imogen, Mack.
Joseph F., Jr., married Louie Shurtliff, by whom he had Josephine and Julina. His wife Louie died in 1908, and he married, second, Ethel Reynolds. Their children are: Emily, Naomi, Lois, Joseph F. Smith III.
David Asael md. Emily Jenkins, by whom he has had: David J., Mahala, Asael, Alfred, Edward, Robert, Elmer, Hyrum.
George C. md. Lillian Emery. Their children are: Lillian, Florence, Ina, George Carlos, Jr., Eleanor and Mary.
Julina Clarissa md. Joseph Strass Peery. Their children are: Joseph Smith and Luacine.
E. Wesley md. Mary H. Smith, by whom he has had: Eloise.
Rachel md. Albert LeRoy Taylor. They have a babe named: Miriam.
GRANDCHILDREN OF SARAH RICHARDS SMITH.
Leonore (Nonie), said by her father to bear a strong resemblance to her grandmother Mary F. Smith, md. Joseph Nelson; she died in 1907. She had: Joseph, George, Alvin, Alice, Franklin, and a pair of still-born twins.
Minerva md. Matthew A. Miller. They have had: Willard, Ellen, Leonora, Joseph, Robenia, Amy and Agnes.
Willard R. md. Florence Grant. They have had: Willard, Florence and Richards.
Frank md. Ella Olson. They have a son, Franklin.
GRANDCHILDREN OF EDNA L. SMITH.
Hyrum M. md. Ida Bowman. He has had: Joseph F., Geraldine, Margaret, and Maxine.
Alvin F. md. Millie Atkins. They have: Ruth, Virginia, Daphne, Grant, Joseph Alvin.
Melissa md. John H. Bowman. They have: Richard, Dorothy, Katherine, and John.
Zina md. Ambrose Greenwell and had one little daughter, Helen. Zina died October 23, 1915.
Martha md. Harold Jenson and has one son, Harold Smith.
146 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
GRANDCHILDREN OF ALICE KIMBALL SMITH.
Alice May md. Robert Sant. Their children are: Sarah, Robert, Kimball.
Heber Chase md. Lilleth Nelson. Their children are: Alice and Ella.
Coulson C. md. Marion Lyman. They have: Marian, Rhoda, Alice, Ruth.
Lucy Mack md. Ralph Carter.
Jesse md. May Anderson.
Thus we see that President Joseph F. Smith has had forty-six children and seventy-four grandchildren. Not one of them born with any mental or physical defect. All are exceptionally bright, keen, industrious, modest, self-reliant, prudent, and above all, exemplary in word and deed. Most of them have the liquid and expressive dark brown eyes of their grandmother, and a number inherit the cameo cut features, with the handsome brows and strong nose bequeathed by both grandparents.
The picture of Mary Fielding Smith is perfect in every detail and is a work of exquisite art. The beautiful face, the lofty expression of the piercing dark eyes, the finely molded head, with dark hair banded over the spiritual brows, the erect and stately carriage are reproduced by the artist in striking manner. Her descendants may well be proud of such an ancestress. That they are worthy of her is the greatest praise, the most beautiful wreath of honor that can be laid as a tribute upon her earthly tomb.
GENEALOGY OF WILLIAM J. HARRIS AND MARTHA ANN SMITH.
William Jasper Harris, b. October 25, 1836, Geneva, Morgan Co., Ill.; died, April 23, 1909; md. Martha Ann Smith, April 21, 1857, who was born May 14, 1841, Nauvoo, Hancock Co., Ill.
Their children were: William Jasper, b. August 4, 1859; Joseph Albert, b. August 19, 1861; Hyrum Smith, b. August 15, 1863; Mary Emily, b. October 23, 1865; Franklin Hill, b. September 11, 1867, all born in Salt Lake City; Lucy Smith, b. March 10, 1870; John Fielding, b. June 28, 1872; Mercy Ann, b. March 20, 1874; Zina Christine, b. May 13, 1876; Martha Artie Misa, b. June 27, 1879; Sarah Lorina, b. Dec. 8, 1882; all born in Provo, Utah.
William Jasper Harris, Jr., md. Jessie Freckleton, Dec. 28, 1882; she was born Sept. 22, 1865, Deseret, Milford, Utah. Their children were: Joseph Fielding, John Earnest, Ruby Leona, Delia Jessie, Wilford LeRoy, Emily, Bessie Irene, Ruel Smith, Ada Fern, Viola Myrtle, Alice Vernice, LeGrande.
148 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Joseph Fielding Harris md. Geneveve Sweatfield. Their children were: Grace, Howard, Gilbert.
Ruby Leona Harris md. Parley Checkett. Their children were: Dan, Robert and Willard.
John Earnest Harris md. Ellen _____. Their children were: Laroni and Leonard.
Wilford LeRoy Harris md. Margery Sumner, May 14, 1914, at Salt Lake City, Utah.
MY FRIEND.
A hymn of faith, affectionately dedicated to every officer and every member of the grandest organization of women in the world, the Latter-day Saints Woman's Relief Society.
My Friend, I look to thee, Most kind and true, To shield and comfort me Life's journey through. Darkness and death extend With wild increase, And still with thee, my Friend, Is perfect peace.
I have no power to fill Life's great design, Save as I learn thy will And make it mine. Help me to understand Thy faintest call, Let me but touch thy hand, I shall not fall.
Sure is thy promise sweet To all who hear, And thou wilt guide my feet, I have no fear. So all life's journey through, Unto the end, I trust thy love most true, My faithful Friend.
L. LULA GREENE RICHARDS. January, 1916.
The Prince of Ur.
By Homespun.
"Say you so? Nimrod hath gone to the Pavilion? Then, haste thee, Mardan, bring me my father's wife's royal litter. Nay, Sarai need not know, I must have it if I am to represent this family at the court of Nimrod. And Zillah, thou shalt be my favorite slave. Thy fortunes are made. Gold and slaves of thine own shall be thy reward for all thou hast done for me. Put on my veil, so — about my head — now the royal abaya, and now — "
Off started the litter at last, with the stately princess sitting like a young cedar tree within, her blazing eyes making light even the darkest of the lanes as she directed her slaves to choose the unfrequented ways lest some of her father's servants might be abroad and mistake her for Sarai, and thus give the secret to her family. Off to the Sacred Pavilion, and now it was to the arms of Nimrod, mighty monarch of the earth. To her own wit and her own passionate temper she trusted for the full conquest of the man whom she knew was illy prepared to resist such as she was and could be. Ah, poor Iscah, thy guardian angel hath folded his own abaya about him and left thee sorrowing, as he took his flight to heaven and God. And the royal litter of the house of Terah went on its secret way.
During these hastening hours, and while Iscah was going to her vaulting ambitions, other and momentous events were taking place in the palace of Terah. The slow breezes were creeping from the river bank and swaying the date palms which grew in riotous profusion along the shady, rich plains of the surrounding walls of Ur. The harbor was filled with the ships of Ur, Egypt and Uphas, riding in quiet splendor upon the jeweled bosom of the sun-kissed, sheltered sea which carried all the goodly commerce of this inland empire to mingle and exchange its stores of corn and dates for the linens and stuffs, the stone and the timbers, the gold and the jewels, of those higher lands where nature had been more lavish in her primal gifts. This lovely land of Chaldea was the home of the wheat, which produced two hundred fold and even trebled that sum to answer to the husbandman's call for richness and reward. Her forests of date palms embowered the whole country, laden with their delicious golden clusters, and pomegranates, mixed with the tamarisk, acacias and the broad face of the land one continuous garden. The groups of laborers who were going out of the city sang
150 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
hymns of Ishtar as they strolled along in the cool of the Sabbath. The tents of the toilers lay huddled under the brick walls of Ur, or within its shelter, as it might be suited to the laborers. For both huts and tents were easily built and rapidly deserted in times of siege or famine — and as quickly made habitable again if peace permitted. The low bee-hive shaped huts of clay were crowded against the city walls both within and without.
Near the city gates stood a young merchant, his turbaned head and high cheek bones betraying his Damascan descent. But the lofty courage of his countenance and the clear glance of his dark eyes attracted more than common interest. He was watching for some one, but seemed unwilling to allow any chance comer to discern that fact. So he kept his gaze fixed rather on the great platforms of the Ziggurat, which loomed three hundred feet above the high walls of the city at its northern extremity. He watched with deep interest the signs of unusual activity which were manifest even at the great distance — for the white robed priests and the dancing girls were easily distinguished from the crimson and the gowned votaries and neophytes who flitted up and down the interminable stairs.
"Whose bird is unloosed, or whose gold is uncounted, Damascan, that thy thoughts are winged to the heights of Ishtar?"
The speaker was one of a throng of shepherds whose brown tunics showed signs of travel and haste.
"The bird is fast, but the gold is ready," answered the merchant whose upstretched arm had caught and held the gaze of the rude Semitic shepherds.
"Methought thy tongue would match thine eyes. Where is the cage?"
Again the shepherd changed the motion of his upraised arm, but so slyly, so deftly, that none of the other strollers or hurrying city dwellers noted what his motions might portend.
"The bird shall be roasted at midnight upon the spit of the gods unless —"
Again the shepherd leader glared curiously and now eagerly into the eyes of the strange merchant to see if he really knew whereof he spake.
"There be birds and birds," quoth the shepherd.
"But only one eagle," answered the merchant, and before the other could reply he threw up his head and arms toward the Ziggurat and said loudly so that all might hear: "The God Elkanah demands his yearly sacrifice this night. It shall be a human offering in honor of the Nimrod's visit. Shall you not attend, my comrades, on this majestic ceremony?"
"Who gives up life tonight?" asked a bearded old man who stood leaning on a staff near the inner walls of the huge gateway.
THE PRINCE OF UR. 151
"'Tis the house of Terah which shall lay upon his majesty's gracious altar its tribute of loving devotion."
"And the offerings?"
"Three lovely maidens, daughters of the master's chief idol-fashioner, Azzi-Jaama. They are said to be very beautiful."
"And why upon the coals? Why not upon the sacred pavement?" asked the old man.
"They profess some scruples about their virtue. They prefer the knife and coals to rendering up their bodies to the service of Ishtar."
"What fools they! Do they not know the value and glory of the living sacrifice rather than the nameless extinction of the altar?"
"Small use to talk to women when they once decide," and a shrewd but pitiful smile lit up the features of the Damascan youth who answered the babbling questions of those who gathered about him. He evidently knew something of the inner secrets of the cult and priesthood, and he knew that curiosity was rampant on the banks of ancient Euphrates as in the groves of Eden.
The shepherd leader, meanwhile, stood with his band a few steps removed from the crowd, but his ears were very wide to catch the information which he shrewdly guessed was far more directed to him than to the babblers by the city wall.
"And is that all? The three daughters of Azzi-Jaama?"
"Nay, the little suckling babe of that same household, Zillah's son, goes with her mother's blessing."
"The breast of the offspring for the breast of the mother she shall give," quoted the old man solemnly. "It is a part of our divine worship. And who can withhold when the great god Nimrod — Merodach — is within the walls?"
The old man was so evidently sincere that the merchant looked at him in surprise.
"And art thou a convert to this fashionable doctrine of human propitiation, my father?" asked the Damascan.
"I bow to the Divine Will. Nimrod hath handed down the lesson of our great Father Noah, and he hath taught us that in sacrificing we shall be blessed. If we desire to be preserved, then we must offer on the sacrificial altar the very thing which most we love. And what so dear as our first-born?"
"But this is a perversion of the ancient doctrine of the Divine Sacrifice."
"Nay, thou canst not talk against the god of Ur, the great Merodach, and Ishtar his queen — whose very human presence is now within our walls — out upon the stranger — push him out—"
A small hubbub arose, as the old man began to hustle the merchant by the aid of a dozen willing brawlers.
"Stay thou, friend, and lift the ensign in my place" — whispered Eliezer to the shepherd leader, as he felt his cloak
152 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
plucked from behind; without much trouble the Damascan had squirmed from under the cloak, leaving it in the hands of his pursuers, and he flew up the stairs beyond the gates before his pursuers could reach the outer wall.
The Hebrew shepherd said nothing as the old man whined garrulously, "A scurvy fellow, and a vile Turanian," and as he spoke, the old man spat upon the ground.
"Art not thou Turanian thyself?" asked the shepherd leader, who stood with his followers a little apart from the masses of people going in and coming out the huge gateway of the city.
The old man looked shrewdly, yet with some fear, into the bronzed face of his questioner; but what he saw in the fierce, untamed, blue eyes of the desert-chieftain must have quelled the answer he fain would have made and so with a rude gesture, he plucked his rags about him and shambled away, leaving the crowd to laugh and mock as they would at his discomfiture.
Presently there rode out of the plains and up to the gate another large group of shepherds, their wild locks falling out from under the encircling kerchiefs, or coifs, their huge bodies erect as arrows, clothed only in the rough tunic of the plain-rangers.
"Whose bird is unloosed, and whose gold is uncounted?" asked the new comer, as he rode swiftly up to the party of similar plainsmen lolling on the ground without the walls. Up went the arm of the first shepherd, and with a quiet tone he replied "The bird is fast, but the gold is ready." There was small need of further talk between these companion warriors and sheiks, but the other asked, as had done his predecessor "Where is the cage?" The first answered as if it were irrelevantly: "The god Elkanah drinks the human cup of sacrifice this night in honor of the god himself who lies in state within these honored walls." "Nimrod here?" shot out the quick question from the momentarily unguarded lips of the second sheik. "Our great Merodach hath lent the luster of his countenance to Ur this night of nights within the year. To grace his own bright festival he comes to light the torch upon the altar of the votive sacrifice." The second chieftain laid his hand first on his eyes and then upon his breast and said in reverent tones "There is but one God in heaven or earth and Him shall we worship both by night and day." The tone was so reverential, the action of the fierce sheik so quiet and subdued that those who stood near to listen from that common vice of curiosity but thought the more of him and laid his solemn tones to rest upon their minds as meaning loyalty to Merodach and Elkanah. The second chief took up his station in the outer walls of the huge gate, and the first party then passed on within the gates and up the many stairs with swift and light steps, leaving their newly arrived brothers to meet and give the greeting to those who should perchance come after. As the first party of shepherds gained the upper landing of the city's terraced streets, they lost themselves quickly and separately in the crowds which were all hurrying towards the temple grounds. Just as the leader turned a swift corner he saw in the distance the king's son coming toward him with light step and perfumed dazzling locks of brown-gold flung wide over his white tunic, just alighting from the steps of a chariot before a walled palace. "Whose bird is unloosed, my friend, that we find you within the city walls on this our first harvest gathering day? Why art thou not drinking wine and offering cakes to other shepherds and husbandmen on this our yearly festal day?" "The bird is caged," said the sheik, a little uncertainly in his beard. He was not without suspicion of his master's foster son, but answer he must, when the challenge rang out from one of Prince Terah's household. "Well, what then? Do not gods require some fowls as well as carrion for their food? What can compare with the neck of the first-born as votive offering on Elkanah's shrine?" "We shall observe the great and mighty testimonial of my master Terah's known fidelity," answered the wily chief, now fully aware of his dangerous position. His proud master looked long and coldly into the fierce eyes of the desert-dweller, but even a prince may not denounce a sheik without some warrant. The pop-eyed prince, with his light brown hair a bit more ruffled through his nervous finger strokings, lifted up his swollen lids and with an insolent smile upon his sensuous face he said coldly "The Prince of the House of Ur may not be altogether pleased to find unbidden guests within his walls." "He shall not have cause to make me unwelcome. I come to add my voice of praise to those of city-dwellers on this most auspicious occasion." The challenge had been flung back. But Mardan was not satisfied. Leaving the shepherd to pursue his way, the prince quickly turned toward the city gates, and taking up his station near the upper stairs, he managed to amuse himself with now watching the motley crowds hurrying before the day was old, or with a moment's ogling of some pretty brown or black maiden as she crossed his path. His patience was rewarded. He was ready to greet the second sheikh as he and his party reached the upper steps. "Whose bird is unloosed, my friend, that you are within the city walls this night?" asked Mardan of his second victim. Again the second shepherd of the plains looked coldly into the leering eyes of his master's foster son, ere he would answer this second challenge then, with some gruffness, he replied: "May I not worship Merodach and Elkanah, as does my master?" The evasive answer but set the ready wits of Mardan to work more rapidly. Was it some rescuing party? But how? Who would go from his father's palace to raise the suspicions of these rude soldier-shepherds? Not Lot although he was the only one from whom Mardan could expect such treachery to Nimrod and his host. Father Terah? He was attending upon the person of the king that very hour—for Mardan had greeted him at the head of his own division of soldiers, standing at guard just within the audience chamber of the king. Who then? Mardan had seen enough to rouse the suspicions of the cunning brain. There must be some plot to rescue the three Cushite maidens from the glorious sacrifice of the coming midnight, or to protect Abram from a possible similar fate. Well, if so, there was not a moment to lose. With fleet foot, he scudded along the narrow highways, and cut across the gardens of the city and through devious side streets, to warn his master and king. "The head of the first-born for the head of the father he shall give," was to be conveniently passed on to the man whom Mardan hated as all wicked men hate their opposites. Abram was everything that Mardan was not handsome, as one preferred the cedar of Lebanon with its powerful limbs and clear branches to the facile delicacy of the willow. Abram was of such commanding personality and genius, such majesty of presence, such graciousness of charm, and magnetic personality that men worshipped him with unquenchable fervour, as some Pagans adored the sun helpless women and tender childhood fled to his arms without invitation. Oh, it was unbearable to Mardan to see the wealth of devotion and loyalty that Abram could attract to himself without the least effort, while he was unable to claim one tithe of Abram's following even by dint of gifts, of carefully studied words, by tactful flattery, or by the promise of favours uncounted. No wonder then, that Mardan was resolved that this sacrifice, which he himself had plotted for these many months, should now go boldly forward. With flying steps he sought the presence of the King. (TO BE CONTINUED.)
Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing.
Alice Merrill Home.
The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing, conducted under the direction of the General Board of Relief Society in the Lecture Rooms of the Bishop's Building, is pursuing a successful school year under the instruction of Dr. Margaret C Roberts. The class consists of 24 very intelligent young women who are deeply interested in obstetrics and nursing.
Course D.
The class in Invalid Cooking, conducted this year in the Kitchen Laboratory of the L. D. S. High School has just closed, under the efficient teacher, Miss Agren. During the remainder of the school year, Course C will be given. This consists of lectures on Public Health and Prevention and Treatment of Diseases by eminent physicians, surgeons, and specialists, and teachers of the State. The following lectures are announced:
* Prevention of Diseases in Obstetrics.
* Care of the Nose and Throat.
* Ordinary Infections of the Eye.
* How the Body Overcomes Infection.
* Two lectures on Physical Characteristics of the Infant.
* Typhoid Fever.
* Surgical Nursing.
* The Care of the Nurse in Relation to Surgical Nursing and Infection.
* Obstetrics.
* Kidney Trouble during Pregnancy.
* Quarantine and Contagious Diseases.
* Venereal Diseases with Stained Cultures and Microscope.
* Dentistry. a. Anatomy of the Teeth. b. Diagnosis and Prognosis of Dental Caries (diseases of the teeth). c. Relation of Nerves to Dentists.
* Emergencies.
* Care of the New-born Babe.
* Infant Feeding. a. Ideal Method of Feeding. b. Wet Nursing. c. Mixed Feeding. d. Artificial Feeding. e. Feeding during Second and Third Year.
Practical Hints to Midwives and Nurses.
a. Inexpensive and Easy Preparation for Maternity Cases in Rural Districts. b. Simple Means of Sterilising Necessary Equipment.
* Dentistry.
* Stories for the Sick-room.
* Obstetrics and General Nursing.
The General Committee of the Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing work are: Priscilla P. Jennings, chairman; Alice Merrill Home, vice-chairman; Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phoebe Y. Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Elizabeth C. Crismon, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Emily S. Richards, and Amy Brown Lyman. The General Superintendent of graduate nurses is Emma A. Empey.

Mother's Prenatal Influence.
There is a great deal of talk concerning prenatal influence, and how a mother can make of her child what she will. That clearly is the Lord's business. Let us trust him to do that perfectly, and take upon ourselves simpler duties. We do not know what we want our child to be, except to help him to make of himself what God intended, for he gives unto each a perfect gift. That gift we shall be pretty sure of discovering if we are daily watchful, as it is our duty to be watchful, of our child. Our part as mothers is to seek to be wise, cleanly, serene, observant of the beauty in what God has made around us, industrious without over-working our strength or the strength of an unborn babe, active physically, always providing for ourselves and our family well-cooked and nourishing food, served very regularly. Nothing will tend more toward good health in a home than that the members establish the habit of answering immediately nature's calls. The bladder should be emptied at least three times daily. Constipation provokes more women's diseases than any other one cause. Attack the first sign of constipation with all your intelligence, providing foods that will overcome that tendency.
Home Science Department.
Juliette A. Hyde.
The work inaugurated in this phase of our Relief Society Extension Course has already taken a firm place in the minds and thoughts of our officers and members. We would suggest that no undue emphasis be placed on this study, nor indeed, on any other department or activity of this great and growing Society. Each department in our work should receive its just and righteous share of attention and thought—that much, and no more. It may be necessary at times—especially when beginning a certain phase of effort—to focus our thought and attention thereon, until it is fairly started and in running order. Once firmly adjusted, however, we, as wise women, will again bring forward in equal division of time and attention all the other phases of our work. This department is a new feature of our Relief Society work, but the ground it covers is not at all new to the state or the Church schools. The Agricultural College of Logan inaugurated this movement in the early nineties, while the Brigham Young University at Provo introduced a Domestic Art Department in 1879, and a Domestic Science Department in 1896; and later the University of Utah established the same course. The Extension Department of the Agricultural College has established many clubs throughout the state for domestic science and art. Invite the members of such clubs to join with you in your work. Urge our women to leave all other clubs and movements and join our Relief Society work. All women are eligible and welcome. Do not seek to tear down the house built up by any man, but build your own so spaciously and beautifully that the man will be glad to leave his own poorer house and come and dwell in comfort with you. The series of conventions to be held under the joint auspices of the Relief Society and the Agricultural College were inaugurated by a Salt Lake City convention, to which delegates from the city and county stakes were invited. The convention opened on Friday morning, January 21, in the Assembly Room of the Bishop's Building. Mrs. Juliette A. Hyde was in charge, assisted by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman and Miss Sarah Eddington, the members of the general standing committee of Home Economics. Other Board members present were Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, Mrs. Emma A. Empey, and Miss Sarah McLelland. The representative sent by Dr. E. G. Peterson, head of the Extension work of the Agricultural College, was Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, who gave the lessons and conducted the discussions. It was fitting that this lady open the pioneer convention for the Relief Society for she is the first graduated Domestic Scientist in the west. She attended Pratt Institute in 1896, took a special course under Miss Emily Huntington in kitchen gardening, and came out with high honours in her class in both science and art, from that pioneer Institute. Mrs. Widtsoe is a recognised authority all over the United States in her line, was one of the founders of the Farm Women's Congress, and an official for two terms. Her writings on these subjects are sought by leading periodicals, and only her home duties and her other heavy burdens prevent her from being a constant writer for the press. Her pamphlet on "Conveniences on the Farm," published by the government, is sought for everywhere, but is now out of print. Mrs. Widtsoe prepared the outlines for this course in the Relief Society, which were published in the January Magazine. The attendance at the convention was excellent, nearly every seat being occupied, while the interest was deep and constant. The first three lessons of our course were taken up, while some general instructions were given on teaching and on the course itself. Two lessons were all that could be given, but a general request for another similar convention in March was warmly expressed. We are happy to announce that a great general convention in this department will be held under the auspices of the General Board at the April Conference, dates to be announced later. We hope to see delegates from all our stakes, and we will have expert instructors sent from the Agricultural College to give the lessons, and to lead the discussions. We know this will be good news to all our friends and members, and we suggest that you look about for suitable delegates and plan accordingly. The work of the Lord, and of that branch thereof, known as the Relief Society, moves forward at a rapid pace. Let us keep step with the onward march.

MISCELLANEOUS NOTES.
During peach season, collect the peach stones, dry and crack them, using the nuts for candy and flavouring of cakes, etc., instead of bitter almonds. Paraffin oil, which can be purchased at any drug store for about twenty-five cents per quart, is excellent for water-proofing kitchen floors. It is applied cold, with a soft rag, dries instantly, and so is easily removed. It has been used very successfully on old kitchen floors, which had originally been painted, and from which most of the paint had been removed by wear. The oil works better on new floors. A quart of oil is sufficient for a medium sized kitchen.
Notes from the Field.
By the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman.
Secretaries.
The secretaries of the Relief Society have been very busy during the last six weeks, collecting data and compiling reports. There is no doubt but that the reports this year will be more complete and correct than ever before. This yearly labour, which is so arduous, will be greatly simplified in the future, as provision has been made for a better classification and a simpler method of reporting information. Meanwhile, we desire to congratulate all of the 845 ward secretaries, and the 72 stake secretaries on the painstaking efforts they have put forth in this special labour, and to thank them one and all for the sweet patience they have manifested throughout. We wish also to assure them that though the work has been long and tiresome, it is really educational and helpful to them in the end. Any task that requires concentration, study, and unusual effort, is invigorating and worth while. The General Secretary takes this means of thanking the stake secretaries for the interest and sympathy they have expressed in her behalf, because, as they state, they appreciate what it must mean to compile the final report. Words of appreciation and good cheer go a long way toward lightening work.
Southern States.
Mrs. Grace E. Callis, President of the Relief Society in the Southern States Mission, reports 14 branches of the organisation in the south located and presided over as follows: Cincinnati, Ohio, lady missionaries; Dayton, Ohio, Martha Minke, President; Darbun, Miss., Julia Ball, President; Quiteman, Miss., Lydia Waltman; Atlanta, Ga., lady missionaries; Buchanan, Ga., Lizzie Brannon, President; Jacksonville, Fla., Florence Harvin, President; Memphis, Tenn., Katherine Alexander, President; Chattanooga, Tenn., Fannie Snodgrass, President; Mt. Airy, North Carolina, Sarah M. Chappell; Gilreath, North Carolina, Ary K. Ball; Columbia, South Carolina, Bertha Easier, President; Greenville, South Carolina, Susan Crosby, President; Gaffney, South Carolina, Lizzie Westmoorland, President. Nine of these societies have been organised since last August, and the members universally express themselves as being greatly benefited by the work and study they have taken up. In several of the churches, the Relief Societies have placed individual sacrament sets, and the Greenville Society is raising money to seat the new church, now nearing completion. The conference house in Jacksonville has been partly furnished by the Relief Society, and the Columbia, South Carolina, organisation, which consists of only 12 members, recently purchased an invalid chair for an afflicted male member of the branch.
Scandinavian Relief Society.
It may not be known generally that in Brigham City, there is a Scandinavian branch of the Relief Society, which was organised in the year of 1880, by permission of Lorenzo Snow. The purpose of the organisation was to provide a means whereby Scandinavian members of the Relief Society, who could not speak English, might come together and conduct meetings in their native tongue. Aside from the regular Relief Society donations, this Society established early in its existence an Emigration Loan Fund, which has been taken advantage of by 64 immigrants. There are at present in this Society 32 members.
Glasgow, Scotland.
In a message from over the sea, we learn something of the activities of the women in the war-stricken countries of Europe. Mrs. Isabella M. Blake, president of the Glasgow Relief Society, writes that it is indeed "a time when men must work, while women weep." She says conditions existing in Great Britain have furnished a real opportunity for the Relief Society to do work that is characteristic of the spirit of the organisation. During the last year, the societies joined with the various churches in providing clothing and comforts for the soldiers and sailors, and in comforting those who are bereft. All the spare time of the women has been spent in this good work. Even the little children assisted by making small articles, such as mittens and wristlets. During the silent work, many prayers have been breathed for those dear ones at the front, and hopes have gone forth that the terrible conflict of nations would soon cease. The names and addresses of the workers were attached to the various articles and messages of sympathy and good cheer were sent, added. In many instances, touching replies have come back from the grateful soldiers at the front.
Farmers' and Housekeepers' Convention at Pocatello.
The General Board of the Relief Society recently received a letter from Professor Melvin C. Merrill of the Idaho Technical Institute, of Pocatello, Idaho, informing them that this Institute would hold a Farmers' Convention during the week from January 31st to February 4th. The letter contained a cordial invitation to the Relief Societies of the Idaho stakes to be in attendance. A letter was sent out immediately to those stakes in the vicinity of Pocatello, informing them of this kindly courtesy, and recommending that as far as possible, our members attend the Institute.
Nurse School.
The students of the Relief Society School of Obstetrics, Nursing and Public Health, visited the Salt Lake City Health Department in a body last week. They were very cordially received by Dr. Paul and his assistants, and were shown every consideration. The students were especially interested in the emergency work of the Department, and carried away with them vivid impressions of this very interesting and important phase of the work. Many useful and instructive bulletins were given to the class, on subjects relating to Public Health and Sanitation.
Juarez, Mexico.
Mrs. Lillie Romney, of Juarez, Mexico, in a letter to the General Board, expresses appreciation for the Relief Society Magazine sent to the Society, and for the splendid lessons outlined therein. She states that things in Mexico are in a very unsettled condition, that the old money is practically valueless, being worth only 33 cents on the dollar. The members of the Society, however, find ways and means of extending charity to those in need. Gifts of flour, potatoes, butter, cheese, second-hand quilts, second-hand wearing apparel, including clothing for babies, are continually being made to the native Mexican women, who are sorely in need. The few members of the Relief Society in the Colony have of late spared from their own supply of bedding 32 quilts and several pairs of blankets to the suffering soldiers.
Mesa, Arizona.
Following is an extract of a letter from one of our members in Mesa, Arizona: "I take this opportunity to let you know how much I appreciate the Relief Society Magazine, especially the January number. It alone is worth the price for the whole volume. I am especially pleased with the article on 'Mental Hygiene for the Woman Past Fifty,' 'The Bride's Mother,' and 'Ma's New Year Resolution.'"
Teachers' Books.
A great many orders for Relief Society teachers' books have recently come into the office. We are wondering if it is thoroughly understood that it is necessary to have only one teachers' book for each teachers' district. We have learned that in some instances wards called for more books than they have districts, and that as a result, other wards have had to re-order. In October, we asked that the stake presidents report the exact number of teachers' districts in their various stakes, which they very promptly did and it was upon this basis that we ordered the teachers' books. An additional number were ordered to provide for the normal growth of the Society, and we are pleased to be able to supply the growing needs, but we desire to have it understood that only one book is necessary for each district.
Current Topics.
By James H. Anderson.
Congress has done little thus far in the present session other than to prepare campaign literature for the coming presidential election. "Watchful waiting" as a policy toward Mexico seems to have about run its course, and necessity is making for some definite form of action. The European war progresses steadily toward the great battlefield in Asia Minor and the Balkans, where doubtless the crucial point will be reached. Abundance of snow this winter has caused some damage by floods and washouts as the snow melts, but the good that is promised by plenty of water for irrigation exceeds greatly the loss sustained. Bargain sales during the new year holidays of 1916 were placed under a ban in Germany, by imperial decree. Let it not be said to the women folks that the war has caused no noticeable effect in Berlin. Wheat is likely to soar in price to a higher figure in 1916 than has been known in the United States in half a century, the European war demands being the chief factor in producing that condition of the market. "Mormon" colonists in Mexico have the choice of leaving or staying there, but it is clear that the spirit of the advice from President Joseph F. Smith is that they would be better off in this country for some time to come. The Teutons and Turks are said to be contemplating a campaign to seize Egypt and the Suez canal. It would appear that for such a scheme it is about as long a way from Constantinople to Cairo as to Tipperary. Henry Ford's peace party which proposed to settle the European quarrel seems to have developed more discord than concord. The Good Book says something about removing the mote from one's own eye before going after the beam in another's. Rabies is said to be threatening dogs and flocks in Utah because of its prevalence among coyotes in Nevada, whence many cross the line into this state. Whether it be for rabies or anything else, the elimination of the coyote is a desirable end. Former President Woodrow Wilson has turned from his policy of no fighting to one of getting ready to fight anybody while his former secretary of state Wm. J. Bryan is waging a contest to keep on the old lines. This is a set-to in which a very large portion of the American people will be genuine neutrals.
A CHICKEN THIEF in Salt Lake City was captured recently, after being shot twice by Mrs. Lulu Bradley, and wounded so he could not escape. Mrs. Bradley detected the thief robbing her henroost. She can feel that after this exploit her chicken house will be reasonably safe from marauders, who do not love such receptions.
Filipino control of the Philippine Islands in two years from now, is proposed by Congress. Since the Filipinos are far behind the Mexicans in civilisation, it would not seem to be a great distance to the loss of Filipino independence when within their own control, and the installation of some other nations sovereignty, if that brief period of limitation is adhered to.
Conscription has been adopted in Great Britain, so far as it concerns unmarried men who are fit food for powder and ball. It has taken eighteen months of war and millions of lives and treasure to convince the British people of the terrible menace which the Teutonic system of militarism inculcates toward democratic peoples, but the issue now seems squarely joined for a fight to the finish.
Prohibition of the liquor traffic has gone into effect in states adjoining Utah, so far as law enactment is concerned, and varied are the devices and schemes adopted to evade it and numerous are the opportunities for the respectable element of all classes in Utah to get together, and with the information of existing conditions at hand, provide for the practical workings of a temperance measure that will effectively rid this state of the curse of strong drink and its attendant evils, whether in the open saloon or the covered dive.
Query Box.
Hazel Love Dunford.
I should like to know why I can never make a successful sponge cake. My eggs are fresh and I follow the directions carefully. —A Reader.
Unless I knew your recipe, I could not give all the information. If I knew your recipe I could better say just what your trouble is. If you are using too much sugar the crust will be hard and sugary and your cake coarse grained. If you are not careful in combining mixtures and if you beat more than necessary, good results will not be obtained. A good recipe for sponge cake is:
Whites of 6 eggs.
1 C. sugar.
Yolks of 6 eggs.
1 C. flour.
½ lemon, juice and rind, or ¼ T. cream of tartar.
Beat yolks until creamy and add sugar and continue to beat add lemon juice; whisk whites until stiff. Combine mixtures by folding in whites and carefully fold in the flour. Bake one hour in a slow oven.
Can you tell me how to wash coloured embroidery so there will be no danger of the colour running? —Miss A. B., Richfield, Utah.
To wash pieces of coloured embroidery so that there will be less danger of colours running, put a tablespoon of powdered alum in the water and use only the purest white soap to make light lather, but do not apply it directly to the silk. If the lather is of good make, it will come out bright and clear, with no fading or injury whatever, but when the colour runs or blurs in the ground material, the alum will usually make the washing safe. A tablespoon of salt is also good for setting most bright colours and in any case tends to brighten and clear the colour with no harm to the fabric.
Dear Editor: My child has lost her appetite, with apparently no cause. She seems well, but just does not want to eat. Can you suggest a remedy? Mrs. A. V. J., Manti, Utah.
This is often the result of a long period of over-feeding or the use of milk too rich in fat. If in all other respects the child seems well and simply does not want her food, give the food at regular hours. Never in between periods. On no account coax a child to eat, much less force her. No greater mistake can be made. Weaken the food given and lengthen the intervals.
What points should guide one in selecting toys and playthings for an infant? Mother.
The instinct in a baby to put everything in its mouth is so strong that one should be very careful not to give things that cannot be safely treated in this way. Hence, things that can be washed easily and things that are not sharp and that have no loose parts that might be swallowed should be chosen. Please give through the Relief Society Magazine, a recipe for carrot pudding. Mrs. G. R. D., Salt Lake.
Carrot Pudding. 1 C. suet creamed well add 2½ C. stale bread crumbs. 1 C. grated carrot. Beat yolks of 4 eggs, add gradually 1½ C. brown sugar. Combine mixtures. Add grated rind of 1 lemon and 1 tb. vinegar. Mix 1 C. raisins, cut fine; ¾ C. carrots dredged with ? C. flour, ½ T. salt, 1 T. cinnamon, ½ T. nutmeg, ½ T. cloves, whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff. Steam 3 hours in buttered mould.
When the Relief Society arrange excursions, they will always invite the bishops, stake presidents, Genealogical Society representatives and priesthood generally to assist and accompany them. It would be much better for the priesthood to arrange the excursion and invite the sisters to accompany them but we can only suggest and hope for this better way. Meanwhile the sisters can certainly plan for their own work, remembering the motto of the General Genealogical Committee of the Relief Society "Provoke the brethren to good works, but don't provoke the brethren while doing so."
The Quest. Maud Baggarly.
God in His love gave His only Son, To teach us if ideals are won. That e'en tho' hearts break Must our dearest and best Be nailed to the cross E'er the end of the quest
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Motto — Charity Never Faileth.
THE GENERAL BOARD
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Juliette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards Music Director Miss Edna Coray Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Juliette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. III. MARCH, 1916. No. 3
A TESTIMONY OF THE TRUTH OF THE GOSPEL.
The books written by the friends and followers of the Saviour are called "The New Testament." In law, a man testifies to a certain fact, and he is spoken of in legal parlance as a "testator." When the Church was first organised, men and women arose in their prayer meetings, and "testified" to the truth of the things taught by the Book of Mormon, and by the Prophet Joseph Smith. This solemn "testifying" finally became crystallised in our religious phraseology into a "testimony" of the truth.
What is a Testimony?
Testimonies sometimes came by dreams, visions, by the simple preaching of the word, by healings of the sick, and in divers ways. But usually we conceive the testimony of the truth as being that "still small voice" which can never deceive, and which pierces the very marrow, making us to know that this work is true better than we know any visible thing in this world.
The "Mormon" Conception of A Testimony.
The world knows nothing of this. They sometimes speak of "a change of heart" or of "getting religion," or of "being saved." But the burning testimony, the spiritual conviction, which Peter confessed and which belongs of right to every baptised soul in this Church is an unknown mystery to those outside this Church. How is that "testimony" obtained? In one way only, and that is through prayer.
A Testimony Lost.
After one has obtained this pure testimony, can it be lost? O yes, yes. No matter how long it may have been in your possession, no matter how many miracles may have been performed through its agency, no matter how powerful you were under its influence nor how happy, no matter who you are and who were your parents. It is a living thing and subject to the laws of life, growth, development, and progress as well of change, decay, death and dissolution. How can it be lost? In precisely the opposite manner in which it was obtained.
Who has this Testimony?
Who should possess this testimony? Will you not answer by saying that every person who has reached the years of reason should and must eventually acquire that living, burning testimony of the truth of this gospel. It is not enough to think it is so, to hope it is true, to merely believe that it is of God. We must know, not for another but for ourselves. It must be a very part of our being, greater than honour or fame, more vital than life, dearer than kindred and home. If we have not this testimony now, we should be striving constantly here and hereafter, till we do get it. Else are we subject to the changing winds of doctrine—blown by theories, blinded by our carnal desires and ambitions, on the trembling verge of forgetfulness, and that change which begins with indifference and neglect, and ends with apostasy and despair.
The women of the Relief Society are this month celebrating the organisation of this great and wondrous Society, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. They are reading the minutes of the organisation. They are peering into the past for every ray of historic light. They are presenting programmes of music and speeches. The soft rustle of well-gowned women will mingle with the subdued conversation of our modern and up-to-date gatherings. Dainties will be served by delicately clad young girls, daughters of worthy women and grand-daughters of heroines. But if any one of the lovely and gracious women who come together on our Annual Day think that the lessons we study, the means we acquire, the reports that can be made, the refinement and culture that may be in evidence, will compensate any one of them for the lack of a testimony of the truth—how deceived they will be. No matter what other works we may do in this Society, let not the pure and sacred testimonies of the sisters be neglected. President Wells is constantly troubled lest our many other strenuous labours and duties shall rob us of this priceless jewel, this pearl without price, which is more precious than life itself—the testimony that this is the Church and Kingdom of God that Jesus is the Son of the very Eternal Father, and that the Prophet Joseph Smith was the instrument through whom the gospel was again revealed to the earth. After bringing forth the Book of Mormon, establishing the Church with all its power and priesthoods, gifts and blessings, he sealed his testimony with his blood in Carthage jail. With this, we are safe, without it we are lost. Seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto you.
OUR DELEGATES IN WASHINGTON.
At the Triennial session of the National Council of Women, held in Washington, D. C., on the 12th of January, that body admitted to its membership the Federation of Women's Clubs, the Daughters of the American Revolution, two powerful College Alumnae, besides a dozen other national bodies of women, thus increasing the membership of the Council to two million women. Our Relief Society, which is a charter member of this Council was represented by Counselor Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, and Mrs. Mary M. Howells. The Y. L. M. I. A., was represented by Pres. Martha H. Tingey and Mrs. Rose W. Bennet. Mrs. Williams was honoured by being asked to introduce the incoming officers, and placed on the nominating committee and on the credential committee. In making a report of our work, she followed a lady who spoke of the great age of her society—organised in 1880. Mrs. Williams referred in glowing terms to the fact that this Society was brought into existence through revelation by the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1842, in Nauvoo. And that every principle of intelligence and power now in operation in women's society throughout the world was introduced and promulgated under his divine inspiration as the foundation of this greatest and oldest of organisations. She was listened to in breathless silence, and was congratulated many times afterwards. She told them of our neighbourhood nursing, and School of Obstetrics, of our extension courses of study, our system of gathering and distributing charity which is without question the most efficient in the world. We are very proud of our Society and proud of such able representatives as were present in Washington. The new President of the National Council of Women is Mrs. Phillip Moore of St. Louis; the three Vice-Presidents are, Mrs. John Hays Hammond, Mrs. Joseph Mumford and Mrs. Katherine Harris. Mrs. Roger Bacon, Recording Secretary; Mrs. Harry L. Keefe, Corresponding Secretary; Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, Treasurer; the Auditors are Mrs. Emma E. Bower, and Mrs. Carrie A. Bahrenberg.
Guide Lessons.
LESSON I.
Theology and Testimony. First Week, April, 1916.
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE.
LEAH AND RACHEL.
(Read Genesis, Chapters 28-37.)
Leah and Rachel were sisters, Leah being the elder. They were daughters of Laban who was the brother of Rebecca, Jacob's mother. They were therefore cousins to Jacob. The sympathy of Bible readers, as a rule, goes out to Rachel, the "beautiful and well favoured," instead of to Leah, whose "eyes were tender." We see nothing of these women till the arrival of Jacob, who came to Haran partly to flee from the natural wrath of his brother Esau on the score of the transferred blessing, and partly to obtain for himself a wife from the "seed of Abraham." When Jacob reached the vicinity of Haran three flocks of sheep were waiting at the well to be watered. As Jacob was pressing his enquiries of the shepherds respecting his uncle Laban, who should come up but Rachel with her flock to be watered? "Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice and wept." Removing with his own strong hand the great stone over the mouth of the well, he gave drink to his cousin's sheep, while she ran to her father to tell him of Jacob's arrival. At the expiration of a month's stay with Laban, during which he probably worked for his uncle, Jacob proposed to serve seven years for the hand of Rachel. This was agreed upon. And the time seemed to the lover "but a few days, for the love he had to her," says the picturesque and suggestive narrative. When however "the days were fulfilled" and Jacob was to receive his bride after the prevailing custom, the crafty Laban brought into Jacob's room, not the young woman he had worked for all these years, but the elder sister Leah. Jacob, though, did not discover the deception till it was too late, and the father-in-law made the hypocritical explanation that "it is not so done in our place to give the younger before the firstborn. Fulfill the week of this one, and we will give the other also for the service which thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years." Jacob did this, and in the end he won—or rather earned—Rachel. And he loved her "more than Leah."
It would seem that both women were sensitive on this point of their having been bargained off by the mercenary Laban, for years afterward they asked bitterly, "Are we not counted strangers? for he hath sold us."
It is interesting, in these days when it is unfashionable to have large families, to follow the race of these two women for the favour of their spouse through child-bearing. Leah bore Jacob four children in rapid succession, before Rachel had even one. Then she "left bearing." Rachel "envied her sister." She said to Jacob, "Give me children, or else I die!" Jacob's answer was as petulant as his favourite wife's, "Am I in the stead of God?" So Rachel gave him her maid Bilhah. Bilhah bore two sons to her mistress one after the other. Leah, not to be outdone by her sister, gave Jacob her handmaid Zilpah, who bore two sons. Leah bore two more sons in succession, and Rachel two. This interesting rivalry is stamped in the very names of the fruit of it. Reuben was given this name by Leah "because now my husband will love me;" Naphtali for the reason that Rachel had "mighty wrestlings" with her sister; Issachar means "hire," in evident allusion to the bargain over the mandrakes; and Zebulun signifies "dwell," referring to Leah's hope on the birth of her sixth son that "now my husband will dwell with me."
But even though Rachel had the favour of her husband and the Lord, it is clear from the narrative in the Bible that Leah also had more or less of the favour of the Lord. And not without good and sufficient reasons. Leah was blessed of the Lord from the beginning, in compensation, it would seem, for Jacob's "hatred" of her. "The Lord saw that Leah was hated, and he opened her womb, but Rachel was barren." Then again "from Leah sprang Judah, in whose line the promise to Abraham was to be fulfilled." It would be too much to say with some that "Leah was the one whom God intended for Jacob;" for Joseph, the "fruitful bough by a well," came from Rachel. During her early years of anxiety for children Rachel appears not to have been so mindful of the Lord as of her husband; whereas Leah, on the contrary, perforce gave less attention to her husband, although he, too, appears to have been much in her mind. But afterward Rachel somewhat modified her attitude in the matter, for the Lord "hearkened unto her," which would imply prayer on her part, and gave her a son, Joseph. Moreover, when Jacob was stealing away with his now numerous family and herds and flocks from his wily father-in-law, Rachel stole some idols of her father's which he valued and probably consulted as oracles instead of the Lord. This would appear to signify that her faith still clung to some extent to the old gods instead of to the living God of her husband Jacob.
QUESTIONS.
1. Who were Leah and Rachel?
2. Describe the character of Laban.
3. Tell of the first meeting between Jacob and Rachel.
4. Relate the deception Laban played upon Jacob. Was it justifiable from Laban's point of view? What do you think was his real motive in the matter?
5. Describe the character of Rachel.
6. Describe the character of Leah.
7. Which do you consider the most favoured? Why?
LESSON II.
Work and Business. Second Week in April.
LESSON III.
Genealogy and Art. Third Week in April.
GENEALOGY.
We took the liberty last month of transposing the March and April lesson in order to meet the needs of a number of stakes that desired this done. This month we again suggest that a beginner's class in genealogy taken from our last year's Guide Lessons and from the Genealogical Lesson Book shall be kept up in all the branches of the Society. Those who have these lessons well learned and who are in the advanced grade will be glad of the practical help given this year in our lesson work for the establishment of a firm foundation on which to carry forward their individual and Relief Society work. But there are and always will be beginners who need the first lessons. It has been suggested by the Board that every member of the Society shall spend at least one day in a temple, or arrange for someone to do this for her. This brings up at once the great question of excursions to a temple. Many ask us how this can be done. We give the following suggestions for the chairman of the Genealogical Committee, acting always under the approval of the Relief Society Presidency:
1. Consult the stake Presidency and obtain their full approval.
2. Invite the representative of the Genealogical Society to co-operate with the Relief Society.
3. Ascertain from the railroad agent what arrangements can be made for party rates.
4. Find out through the ward Genealogical Committee about how many persons will go. Note: A successful plan is to invite so many from each ward to go, making them feel that it is a privilege rather than a duty.
5. Write to the president of the temple in your district and ask how many persons your stake may present at the chosen day or week. Note: Always visit your own temple rather than wait for conference time and try to come to the Salt Lake temple. That temple has been so crowded of late that hundreds are turned away each week, and conference time is always a particularly crowded week.
6. Ascertain where your people can get lodgings for a day or so, if you travel long distances, by writing to the stake president or the temple president. Some rent rooms and carry their own provisions.
7. The Genealogical Committee should next discover how many names can be supplied from their own wards and stakes. Oftentimes some poor persons have long lists of names, but cannot afford to go to the temple, while it also happens that some who can afford to go have no names. The committee in this case, can act as an exchange bureau. Note: Unless the chairman of the committee is familiar with the mode of preparing baptismal and other temple sheets, it is better to simply insist on each person bringing a clearly written statement of record of the work he wishes to do and trust to the competent temple recorders to prepare the names and information after reaching the temple. It must always be bourne in mind that the chairman of any or all committees in the Relief Society work under the advice and supervision of the presidency of her Society. There must be order in the Church. A chairman is always in order in devising ways and means for the advancement and development of the work placed under her charge; but this must be done after consultation, and with the direct approval, of the presidency of the Society.
8. Our last suggestions are for those who live too far away from the temples to take an excursion, but who should not be deprived of the privilege and blessing derived from this glorious work. (a) Work in harmony with your stake presidency, and the representative of the Genealogical Society. (b) Send your missionaries to every member of the Society, to collect means and names. (c) After arranging all data and having means enough to cover the cost of substitute work, forward the whole to the president of the temple in your district.
9. Report all official work thus done on your ward records. (a) Always remember your donations and make them proportionate to your circumstances.
Now, sisters, go on with this glorious and necessary work, and let no woman say "there is no temple work for me to do." Here is a way for all to work and be blessed in the doing of it.
QUESTIONS.
1. What arrangements can you suggest to enable your ward to be represented this year at the temple?
2. Who is the representative of the Genealogical Society in your ward and stake?
3. Which is the better plan to call persons to go on an excursion, or to invite them?
4. Write a model letter to the temple president, asking permission to visit the temple in your stake in one month from date.
5. What can you say about preparing sheets for your temple work?
6. What should be the attitude of the chairman of the Genealogical Committee to the president of the Relief Society?
7. If your stake is too far away to go on a temple excursion what can you do as satisfactory substitute work?
8. What members of the Society would you excuse from actual or substituted temple work during the year 1916?
ART AND ARCHITECTURE.
THE INTERDEPENDENCE OF LANDSCAPE AND ARCHITECTURE.
However unsightly a building may appear, or however beautiful the architecture of a home or church or business block may be, its effect may be greatly modified by the landscape. The English ivy, the Boston ivy, a climbing rose, wisteria or honeysuckle vine, or the fruiting grape, may be so successfully placed, that it assists the architecture in creating an atmosphere of sweetness and grace. On the other hand, a badly kept lawn, ugly paths and walks, and sickly, untrimmed trees, poorly placed, can make a poem of architecture look indeed ridiculous.
When designing a house or church building, the architect always gives consideration to the landscape—the surrounding fields, trees, and buildings. It would be poor judgement, indeed, to plan beautiful architecture, without planning for the surroundings as well. A lawn here, a walk there, a rose garden yonder, a tall tree planted to balance the other end of the roof, a mass of flowers, a garden-seat—any one of these may be used to make perfection or to mar the beauty of church or home. The architecture and garden, together, may be all that one might desire, yet there are moments when the landscape unites with them to complete a picture worthy to be preserved forever. Let us not then pass unnoticed the rose-tinted clouds at dawn, the wind-swept cloud, a sunset sky, a double rainbow, that gives this added touch of entrancing loveliness. And while we study beautiful buildings, let us think of beautiful gardens, and a beautiful landscape, to complete the picture.
Let us pay special attention to the surroundings, in connection with the home. Turn to page 144, Devotees and Their Shrines, and notice an illustration in which the lines all lead to the porch roof, and then come down the corner post to our lady in white. The masses of flowers in the foreground, seem to creep close to the path, which leads up to the step, and the fences seem to follow toward the same goal. The nearby stones seem comfortably settled in lines leading to this same spot. Therefore, there is rest, harmony and rhythm, in this picture. Without Mrs. Allen, the picture would not be so successful.
Turn to page 145, to the house where Julina Lambson Smith was born, and note the splotch of green in the upper left-hand corner. It repeats the mass of tree and vine. It gives a touch of strength and vigour to the whole picture, and by filling up a large, empty space, in the sky, makes the design good. Draw a circle, including dear Aunt Melissa, the vine, and the chimney, and the bush at the corner of the house. A second and larger circle will include Uncle Albert at the door, the poplar tree, the dark spot of tree in the sky, the distant trees and shrubs beyond the kitchen, as well as the shrubs below, the holly-hocks, and the border in the foreground. Circles such as these are very pleasing in architecture and landscape gardens, as well as in pictures and statuary.
We have studied this lesson of artistic gardening by Leila Merrill Allen, page 144, Devotees and Their Shrines, with the idea of choice of flowers and flower beds. Now add to this, the thought of the architecture and landscape surroundings of the home.
QUESTIONS.
a. Why do you plan a garden with walks, borders, lawn, trees, shrubs, and flower beds? b. Invent a colour scheme for a garden for spring flowers. c. Invent a colour scheme for fall flowers. d. What vines may be trained over sheds to give beauty? e. What flowers are most suitable for a brilliant border; what for a sweet-scented border? f. Make a plan for a peony garden. When should the peonies be planted? g. Design a rose garden behind the house. h. Plan walks and flower beds with place for dwelling indicated. i. Plan paths, creek, and house in a mountain home (p. 152).
Read: Pages 149-150, "The Dear Old Garden," written by Aunt Em, of her own garden. a. What part of Mrs. Wells' life did the garden fill? b. If she had not known the joy of a garden, that beautiful poem could never have been written. What are its most beautiful lines and thoughts? c. Read "The Cottage," by the architect Dallas—page 151. d. From its perusal, you must glean the facts that this architect designs the architecture of a cottage only in connection with the landscape—never as a house alone. e. What does he mean by fitness and power of association? f. Name the essentials of a mountain camp. Why is not the study of the arrangement of the cabin, alone, sufficient for a successful mountain home?
LESSON IV.
Home Economics. Fourth Week in April.
THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME.
THE BUSINESS SIDE OF HOUSEKEEPING.
Gem: Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways and be wise: she provideth her meat in the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest. Prov. 6:6, 7-8.
Outline:
1. The Question Involved.
2. Woman's Chief Difficulty.
3. An Example.
4. The Family Income. a. Who provides it. b. Who spends it. c. Woman's share in the business of the Home.
5. The Budget.
6. Two Objections Answered.
7. The Experimental Budget. a. How It can be Made Accurate.
8. Information to be Gained from Records.
9. Benefits to the Family from the Budget System of Living.
A question we frequently hear discussed is: "Should the finances of the home be managed in a business-like way?" This is the problem of the day and its final solution will come, not from the professional writer, but through efforts of the housekeeper. The hardest work many women have to do is to take care of their families and keep them happy and comfortable with the amount of money which comes to them for this purpose. Life is a constant struggle to make ends meet. A woman spends for what seems necessary as occasion occurs, but when spring and fall come and clothing for the family must be purchased, or when some expensive piece of equipment must be bought for the home, she never knows whether there will be enough money to pay meat and grocery bills or not. She is always worried about finances and never sure just what she should afford.
One such woman tells how she escaped from this bondage. For the first few years of her housekeeping Mrs. X worried along with ends never meeting, always suffering from the terrible feeling that she was spending too much but not knowing just how or where. They bought a home, feeling it was cheaper to buy than to rent and found that the house was a high-priced luxury, that it was too large and too difficult to care for with their income. But she says, "We found this out after we bought." She employed help; found she could not afford it after she tried it for a time. She bought what she felt was needed for the table and found herself always behind in her bills. She did not know till the end of the month that she was spending too much. After two or three years of this she decided there must be some better way to manage. She tried planning ahead. First, she set down on a piece of paper the big things she knew must be paid—the payments on the house, taxes, insurance, etc. Then she divided what was left among other expenses as best she could. It did not all come out right at first, but after a time she worked out a system which did come out satisfactory and leave her a little over. She says this learning to plan ahead for her spending, and thus being able to live within their income, did more for their happiness than if a relative had left them a fortune. She learned what we must all acknowledge to be true—that the home, while it must be many other things, should also be a business organisation. Husband and wife are partners, and as fast as the children grow old enough to understand, they should be taken into the firm as junior partners. All should understand how much money, or its equivalent, there is for the running of the business of the home and all should be equally interested in seeing that this money, or its equivalent, is wisely used—used so as to bring the greatest good to each and every one of the family.
In most families the man provides the income and the wife does most of the spending. For she spends for the whole family, not just for herself. Thus it comes about that the spending for the home and family is woman's share in the business side of homemaking. Most women are willing to acknowledge that the above fact is true, but all do not agree in what is equally true—that in order to spend wisely and to the best advantage some systematic method of planning ahead must be evolved. The business term used for a written statement of income for the year and the plan of spending that income for the various expenses to be incurred during the year is called a Budget. A budget for the home then is a table of expenses or a written statement of the income and of the divisions of this income into separate amounts, each of which is to be used for some one class of expenditures. That is, after finding out the income and writing that down, the housekeeper decides how much is needed for food, how much for clothing, and how much for each of the several items into which she divides her home expenses. So when we speak of planning some systematic method of handling the household expenses, we really mean that some kind of a budget or table of expenses should be planned, written out, and strictly lived up to.
The first objection the busy woman will make to this suggestion is that she has not time for it. Women who have tried this plan all say it saves far more time than it takes. Another objection is that such a plan can be carried out only in a family on a salary. The experience of many women whose husbands are business men or farmers show that this budget plan of spending can be carried out successfully on an irregular income. The budget for the first year it is tried must be experimental, and may not come out as planned; but if one watches it carefully and sees where it was wrong she can plan more accurately for the next year. An exact account of everything spent and everything which comes in must be kept. It is this careful keeping track of all money or its equivalent coming in which is the essential part of the work when the income is irregular. The accounts and budget for the first year give something more definite on which to base the second year's plans. Every year this plan is continued helps one to plan more accurately for the coming year. If there comes a year when one must, for some reason, live more economically she can survey her budget and see where the saving can best be made. Or as the family income increases so as to give her more to spend, she can systematically distribute and increase.
After using the budget system for a few years the account book will be found to be a storehouse of information to assist in planning for the future. If one wishes to give a party and wishes to know whether it can be afforded or not, she turns easily to the page of a previous party and finds there every item of expense connected therewith, and at the bottom of the page a summary showing each detail of expense and the cost per person of the number entertained. From this can be easily and closely estimated the cost of entertaining a larger or smaller number, or the additional cost of introducing more expensive features in menu or entertainment. Of even more value will be found the record of exact quantities used for a given number, with the marginal note as to any excess or deficiency.
Can the family afford to take a camping trip? From previous years' records will be found the cost of former trips and the amount saved on ordinary running expenses, giving the net cost of this recreation, which is often found to be extremely low.
Can a trip to California be afforded? The writer from previous records estimated a recent trip to California at $151 and provided that amount in her budget. The total cost of the trip was $151.50. A friend, without previous records, planned a similar trip which was to be made on $100. The trip was made. Two hundred dollars was necessary. The family finances were seriously crippled for the year.
Examples could be multiplied indefinitely showing the reliance which can be placed on the records of the past. The records are not necessarily your own. Women of today exchange recipes; women in the future may exchange estimates.
The budget system of managing brings many benefits to the home where it is used. First, it brings a husband and wife closer together. The woman who thus plans and saves even a small amount immediately becomes a partner with her husband in building a home and a fortune. While a woman who unquestioningly spends what is given her is never a member of the firm. In many homes the question of money is a constant source of irritation. This is not the case where the matter is placed on a business foundation. For the basis of budget-making must be co-operation. The woman must understand her husband's income and financial plans. As partners they must handle this income. The hours they spend together planning how he is to meet mortgage, taxes, interest, etc., and how she is to meet the many and varied expenses which come under her management are very happy hours if they bring mutual understanding of one another's problem and mutual appreciation of one another's efforts.
Second, the woman who plans ahead buys to better advantage. If she knows that the little daughter must have cloak, hat, dress, three aprons, underwear, and stockings, in the fall, and that there is just so much money for this child's whole fall expenditures, she plans carefully just about what each thing may cost. She is not tempted to buy some pretty hat she sees which is so expensive that it would leave no money for the underwear or make the cloak too cheap to be durable. She learns too, that the cheapest article is sometimes the most expensive; that is, it may be so cheap it does not wear. It is better to buy a good garment which wears two seasons than a cheap one which fails to go through one. The woman who has her plans all written out can wisely take advantage of sales. She is not tempted to buy useless things just because they are cheap and on sale.
Third, if one buys to better advantage she will inevitably save more. Systematic planning means systematic saving. The savings account is a very important part of the business of homemaking. Any family, except under the direst poverty or the greatest misfortune, can save if they will. It is the habit of saving and not the amount saved which is the important thing to establish. The greatest of fortunes have started with the smallest of savings. The testimony of almost everyone who has saved, as well as of those who have not, is that it is easier to start saving in the beginning on a small or moderate income, than it is to start upon a larger one after habits of spending have been acquired. The person with a thousand dollar income says, "If I had your $2,000 income I would save," when the fact is that the two thousand dollar income referred to is the result of saving and habits of saving formed on an income of less than $1,000. The great majority of people who plan to save in the future never do it. They allow their expenses to increase as rapidly as incomes increase. A twelve hundred dollar salary with $200 saved puts a family much further on the road to ultimate success than a two thousand dollar income with $100 saved.
Fourth, families who run their finances in this business-like way are more contented. If father, mother, and children all understand what the family have to live on and know it is divided justly and carefully among the various expenses each will feel satisfied that the best possible results are being obtained. There will be far less longing and wishing for what they cannot have than where everything is indefinite. The high school girl who knows that all her clothes for the year must be covered by fifty dollars will not go crazy over wanting a forty-dollar cloak, as she might do if she knew that father provided money only for her needs and she had no definite idea of what her share of the family money was. When each child knows that his share is set aside there will be no jealousy among the children, no feeling that one is having more than another, such as exists in some families.
Fifth, out of all this grows a peace of mind which is priceless. One who is living within her income, knows that in the coming year she will again live within it and save something. This gives more happiness than riches. Having once used a budget and kept systematic accounts, no housekeeper will ever think them too much trouble. The time and effort spent on them is repaid to her many times over in the happiness they give to her and her family.
QUESTIONS.
1. What is the question with which this lesson deals?
2. What is the chief difficulty a woman has to meet in buying for her family? When does she find this hardest?
3. Why did Mrs. X spend too much in the first years of her housekeeping? How did she overcome this trouble? Why did this make them so happy? What was the big fact she learned that is of value to every family?
4. Who provides the income of the family? Who spends it? What is woman's share in the business of homemaking?
5. What is a Home Budget?
6. What are two objections many women make? What reply is made to each?
7. What kind of a budget must one begin with? What will help her to make it more exact?
8. What information can one gain from her records? Can you think of other things one might find out from them?
9. What is the first benefit the budget system brings to the home?
10. What is the second benefit?
11. What is the third benefit?
12. What is the fourth benefit?
13. What is the fifth benefit?
14. Can you think of other benefits not given in the lesson?
15. Should the finances of the home be managed on the budget plan?
Will Mrs. Susan Leighton send her full address to this office? Her magazine cannot be forwarded.
AN EXPRESSION OF APPROVAL
We are happy to chronicle the advent of the excellent argument used by Mr. Robert C. Webb in book form. We suggest to the sisters that this book be purchased for your Relief Society libraries as well as for your home library. We give here an expression of approval, as voiced by the First Presidency:
The Case Against Mormonism is a book of 157 pages, written by Robert C. Webb, and published by L. L. Walton, New York City. In this little work, many of the misrepresentations under which the Church and our people have suffered are analysed in a masterly way by the able author who, as specified by himself on the title page, is a non-"Mormon." We commend this book to our missionaries in the field, to the earnest enquirers and investigators whom they may meet, and to the Latter-day Saints generally.
Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, First Presidency, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Salt Lake City, Utah, January 29, 1916.
The book sells at 75 cents per copy retail, and may be obtained from the publisher, L. L. Walton, 31 East 27th Street, New York City, N. Y. and also from the Deseret News Book Store, Salt Lake City.
BURIAL CLOTHES
Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah
Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 10% discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves.
Please Use Our Subscription Blanks
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
Mothers, educate your daughters—and sons to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at
The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.
"Utah's Most Popular Music House"
Here are some of the things we are going to give away FREE
Fill out and mail coupon TODAY.
Sewing Machine Refrigerator Morris Chair Vacuum Cleaner Hall Chime Clock Kitchen Cabinet
You don't have to purchase one penny's worth, to get premiums.
Daynes-Beebe Music Co. 45 Main st. Salt Lake, Utah.
Please send me full information as to how I can obtain one or more of these beautiful premiums FREE.
Name........... Address........
"Older than the State of Utah"
Z. C. M. I.
The Most Interesting, Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections of the West
ARE REACHED VIA
Including Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts
School Shoes For Boys
Are made for service they will keep the boys' feet warm and dry.
Z. C. M. I.
ALLOVERS
Pacific Coast Excursions Daily to November 30th
are the ideal play garment for boys and girls. Cheap, serviceable.
For Descriptive Literature, address D. E. Barley. General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah
English and American ARCHITECTURE By GEO. M. ALLEN is in Mrs. Horne's Art Book,
DEVOTEES AND THEIR SHRINES.
Send to this office or to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned.
PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID
If the "DAY" has been set
Let me sell you the Ring
Diamond Rings $20 and up One Quality Only—the Best
McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
Plan Your 1916 Vacation
See America's Playground California
See the Thirteen Hundred Miles of Scenery via the
SOUTHERN PACIFIC
Half the pleasure of a trip is Planning it
For carefully illustrated itineraries Write or call on
C. L. McFAUL, District Passenger Agent Ticket Office Second Floor Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
SPECIAL ARTICLES APRIL, 1916.
THE MOTHER OF MOTHERS IN ISRAEL ELIZA R. SNOW With Illustrations
A SONNET Alfred Lambourne
THE CONFERENCE FOLKS Elsie C. Carroll
WONDROUS WOMAN'S BOOK Ida Husted Harper
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy 10c Vol. III.
NOW READY!
A new 800 page volume "JESUS THE CHRIST" By DR. JAMES E. TALMAGE
From the Press of The Deseret News
This is the work of which notice has been given in the Official Announcement published by the First Presidency of the Church. It presents the Life and Mission of the Messiah from the view-point of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Bound in half leather, cloth sides, $3.30 post paid
Deseret News Book Store The Leading Book Concern
Satisfying a Demand for Pure Sugar
In Utah-Idaho Sugar will be found all the high-class elements of perfect sugar. This finished product stands the test of superiority because each step in its manufacture is carefully safeguarded by perfect sanitation.
Healthy white men of experience, in the clean, sunlit Utah-Idaho Sugar Factories are determined to make a sugar of quality by always maintaining for it the uniform whiteness and purity known to but few sugars.
See that your grocer gives you Utah-Idaho Sugar. With its use you will enjoy success in jelly-making, preserving and cooking.
UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, PRESIDENT THOS. R. CUTLER, VICE-PRES. and GEN'L MGR.
When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction
The Thomas Studio Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. Established 1877
Phone Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY
100 Calling Cards Engraved For $1.50, Postage Paid
Everyone should have a nice calling card, and we want you to call on us for same
Pembroke Company The Home of Fine Stationery and Engraving 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah
Kindly mention this magazine when ordering
The Relief Society Magazine
Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
CONTENTS. APRIL, 1916.
My Epitaph Eliza R. Snow 181 The Mother of Mothers in Israel 183 "The Conference Folks" Elsie Chamberlain Carroll 191 A Sonnet Alfred Lambourne 196 A Prince of Ur Homespun 197 Sary Ann's Family E. C. C. 206 Spring Maude Baggarly 209 A Wondrous Woman's Book Ida Husted Harper 210 Home Science Department Juliette A. Hyde 213 "Happy as a King" Ida Stewart Peay 216 Query Box Hazel Love Dunford 217 Current Topics James H. Anderson 219 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 222 Editorial: The Childless Ones 225 Guide Lessons 227
ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY.
Patronise those who advertise with us.
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City. MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. PEMBROKE CO., STATIONERY, 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J, Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City, THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City. TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St., Salt Lake City. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City Utah. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City.
Grandmothers—Mothers Daughters—Granddaughters
will all find interesting reading in
"AFTER TWENTY YEARS" By Dr. Geo. W. Middleton
Apostle Reed Smoot says: "I wish this book was in every American Home."
PRICE $1.25 postpaid
Deseret Sunday School Union Book Store 44 E. South Temple Salt Lake City
We Invite Your Inspection
Establishing business relations with a bank is a serious matter and should be the result of having carefully considered all the qualifications of the bank seeking your business.
We invite the closest inspection of our financial standing, equipment, methods and policies, because we know that we do give satisfaction on all these points.
We pay 4 per cent Interest
"The Bank with a Personality"
Merchant's Bank Capital $250,000 Member of Salt Lake Clearing House
John Pingree, Pres.; O. P. Soule V. P.; Moroni Heiner, V. P.; A. H. Peabody, Cashier; Radcliffe Q. Cannon, D. R. Pingree, Asst. Cashiers
Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City
SALT LAKE'S LADY FLORIST
Mrs. Emma J. Sanders
278 South Main Street
Schramm-Johnson No. 5
Phone Wasatch 2815 Salt Lake City, Utah
Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company
The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this.
Relief Society Headquarters or
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. RELIEF SOCIETY DEPARTMENT
HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Established 1860 Incorporated 1908
IT is the purpose of this Bank at all times to render helpful service and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant.
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK
Your Account is Cordially Invited
JOSEPH F. SMITH, PRES.
S. M. TAYLOR & Co.
Undertakers and Embalmers
SUCCESSORS TO: Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West
53 Years in One Location
251-257 E. First South Street Salt Lake City, Utah
Efficient Service, Modern Methods, Complete Equipment
My Epitaph.
Eliza R. Snow.
'Tis not the tribute of a sigh From sorrow's bleeding bosom drawn; Nor tears that flow from pity's eye, To weep for me when I am gone;
No costly balm, no rich perfume, No vain sepulchral rite I claim; No mournful knell, no marble tomb, Nor sculptured stone to tell my name.
It is a holier tithe I crave Than time-proof, monumental piers, Than roses planted on my grave, Or willows dipped in dewy tears.
The garlands of hypocrisy May be equipped with many a gem; I prize the heart's sincerity Before a princely diadem.
In friendship's memory let me live, I know no earthly wish beside; I ask no more; yet, oh, forgive This impulse of instinctive pride.
The silent pulse of memory, That beats to the unuttered tone Of tenderness, is more to me Than the insignia of a stone:
For friendship holds a secret cord, That with the fibres of my heart, Entwines so deep, so close, 'tis hard For death's dissecting hand to part.
I feel the low responses roll, Like distant echoes of the night, And whisper, softly through my soul, "I would not be forgotten quite."
NEW PORTRAIT OF ELIZA R. SNOW
In the Salt Lake Temple. Painted by Lewis A. Ramsey.
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. III. APRIL, 1916. No. 4.
The Mother of Mothers in Israel.
Eliza R. Snow.
The study of histories and biographies judiciously perused gives one a liberal education, for not only are all the activities of life herein manifested, but the characters of men and women with the forces and elements which have contributed to successes and failures, are set before the reader with vivid pen-strokes. In the study of the greatest women of modern times, nay, the greatest women of all times, not excepting those Hebrew heroines whose names shine out on the pages of the Bible, we pass naturally from Lucy Mack Smith to her daughter-in-law, Mary Fielding Smith, and, then we come face to face with Eliza R. Snow. She had no children of her own, but she was indeed by nature and grace, the mother of all mothers in Israel. She revered motherhood next to fatherhood and her whole life was a dedication to the service of her sex in its most exalted phases of motherhood.
Eliza R. Snow was born on the 21st of January, 1804, in Becket, Berkshire County, Massachusetts, into a scholarly and refined household. She had every advantage of education and cultural surroundings. She early showed her poetic gifts and was invited, when only a girl of 22, to write a requiem for John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, whose simultaneous deaths, on July 24, 1826, afforded a worthy theme for the inspiration and lofty grandeur of her gifted, poetic pen. Her father had fought through the whole Revolution, and his stories of the hardships endured and the purpose thereof, were a never failing source of patriotic reverence to his studious daughter. Her parents removed to Mantua, Ohio, and there received the gospel. Eliza was baptised into the Church on the 5th of April, 1835, and she soon removed to Kirtland. She entered the family of the Prophet Joseph Smith as a governess for his children; and opened a select school for young ladies in his home. She wrote constantly, and all of her poems were saturated with devotion to her country and to her newly espoused religion. When the Saints settled in Nauvoo the young poetess accompanied them in their travels. What she endured, together with her parents and her noble brother, Lorenzo Snow who was later made President of the Church—could never be told. Pen could not write nor imagination conceive the difficulties which this delicately nurtured lady experienced in common with the others of her sex who belonged to the hated "Mormon" people.
On reaching Nauvoo she still continued her occupation of school teaching, and on the 29th of June, 1842, she was sealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. She loved the Prophet Joseph with a deep and wide affection which only such natures may understand. All that others thought about him in honour and praise was reflected in double measure in her own consuming affection for this Prophet of God. She once answered a curious young girl, who had asked her an impertinent question concerning the measure of affection possible for the Prophet to feel under such circumstances: "I could not love my husband if I did not know that his heart was as broad as eternity."
Such sincere and exalted devotion cannot be understood outside of those who have embraced the gospel. So well did she love the Prophet that, although she accepted the generous offer of protection and a home from his best friend and his successor, Brigham Young, after her widowhood, that protection was in name only, and she did not even take the surname of President Young, but was always called by her public name, Eliza R. Snow.
When the first Relief Society was organised on March 17, 1842, Eliza R. Snow was chosen as the secretary, on that historic occasion. A little incident which shows the high esteem in which the Prophet held her follows: When the Prophet came into the Relief Society meeting, she asked him concerning the time, and taking out his own watch he laid it upon the table beside her and said, "Here is a timepiece and you may keep it, from me." That watch was presented by Sister Snow to her beloved friend and nephew, President Joseph F. Smith. (See illustration.)
Sister Eliza R. Snow faithfully kept the minutes of the Relief Society meetings held for the next two years in Nauvoo, and the original records are now deposited in the Historian's office where they are treasured as a rare relic of those days. When the Nauvoo temple was opened just after the martyrdom, Eliza R. Snow was chosen to officiate as one of the High Priestesses in that sacred court. After the Saints were driven out she shared in the dreadful exposures and hardships that followed the expulsion from Nauvoo. She learned to drive an ox team herself, and while resting for a few months in a miserable log house, laid up like children's cob houses, with cracks in it from one to four inches wide and only a tent covering over the top, Sister Snow was taken sick with chills and fever. This was in Winter Quarters, in August, 1846-7, and here, for some months, her life was despaired of. She did not entirely recover for many years from the dreadful exposures of that awful winter. And yet she sang! oh, how she sang! of love, of life, of faith, hope and charity. The sweetness and the benediction of peace fell like clouds of incense upon every line which she wrote. Her songs were sung around the camp-fire, and by weary men, along unbroken trails; they were crooned over the cradles by tender mothers, and hymned in the crowded meetinghouses of the Saints, while even children voiced her psalms of praise, as they trudged their way to school. Before she left Nauvoo, she wrote, "O, My Father," one of the most beloved hymns ever written for this people. And the hymn book discloses for us the wealth of her imagery, the beauty of her metres, and the exalted piety of her muse. She is one of the greatest, if not the greatest, hymn writers that this Church has produced. It would be impossible in the confines of this little sketch, to do anything like justice to her poetic powers or to analyse her as poet and writer. We suggest to the sisters of the Relief Society that they purchase her poems and read them occasionally, not only in their public assemblies, but on the Sabbath days, and in the evening hours of restfulness and reflection.
On arriving in Salt Lake City, in Sept., 1847, she was married to President Brigham Young, in 1849, for time only. She lived first in what was known as the Old Log Row, and there lay upon a bed of suffering for a number of years. She had consumption and nearly coughed and spit her lungs and life away, but through it all she was patient and sweet, and gently charitable, never offering one word of complaint nor criticism.
When the Lion House was completed, in 1856, she was given her quarters there. In May, 1855, when the Endowment House was opened, President Young asked Sister Eliza R. Snow to officiate as a Priestess in the Endowment House. She expressed fears that her health would not permit her to do justice to so important a mission, but he assured her that her health should improve, and that she should have joy in her labours to which the Lord had called her. About this time Sister Snow came across a book of Dr. Dio. Lewis's, recommending daily cold baths and plenty of fresh air. She immediately adopted this regime and those who sometimes peeped into her bed-room of a winter morning would find a wooden tub full of water with a thin coating of ice on it before her bed, all ready to be used for a morning ablution. Sister Snow never wholly recovered from the irritating little cough which was the only result from her long siege of consumption.
She was an exquisite seamstress. Her embroideries were works of art, and there is still extant a bed-spread embroidered by her, which is even now a thing of beauty. She made many temple robes and other garments for the clothing of the dead. She was never idle. If she were not writing or studying or conversing, you may be sure her hands were busy with some delicate needlework.
She was a marvel of patience. At one time a certain sister turned upon her and administered a bitter tongue lashing. Sister Snow did not reply, and when asked by a by-stander how she could endure such a thing quietly, Sister Snow replied that there was only one injured and that was the person who gave way to such violence of temper.
Even if she was generally patient, it was not because she had not the wit nor the quick intelligence to make reply. On one occasion, in the Lion House where Sister Snow always sat on the right hand side of President Brigham Young and where they frequently entered into instructing, and inspiring discourse, there had been considerable discussion in the family circle concerning the bringing up of children, to which Sister Snow had contributed: "I notice," said one of the tart spoken women present, "that it is always old maids and childless women who know most about bringing up children." Clearing her throat in her usual deliberate way, Sister Snow replied, "I would rather go into the Kingdom of Heaven childless than to bring up one son who would deny the faith," which fate, as to the son, overtook the tart spoken woman.
When President Young wished to have the Relief Society organised completely in all its branches, he gave Sister Eliza R. Snow the mission of assisting the bishops in this great work, and told her to take Sister Zina D. H. Young as her companion. This was in 1866, and from that day to her death, Sister Snow stood at the head of all organisation work for women in the Church. President John Taylor organised the General Boards, in 1888, and placed Sister Snow at the head of the Relief Society and the women in the Church. It was under her that all the wondrous departments in sericulture, suffrage, nurse classes, and woman's newspaper and woman's hospital, co-operative stores, Women's Relief Society halls, the saving of grain, and indeed every enterprise and activity known to women even today, germinated, and took root under her beneficent and marvellous organising powers.
Sister Snow visited Palestine, in 1872-3, with her brother, Lorenzo Snow and his party, and wrote a complete account of this in a series of letters which were afterwards published. She also wrote the biography of her brother, President Snow, and many other books, and volumes of poetry.
Sister Eliza R. Snow was in most respects the greatest woman this Church has produced. To her gifts as poet, writer, public speaker, high priestess in the temples, and ministering angel among women, she added the supreme gift of initiation. She knew how to handle women. When she entered a room or an assembly, no matter what condition things may have been in before her entrance, she at once dominated the gathering, and order followed immediately, for the whole essence of her personality was dignity and poise. Strife, petty contention, envy, malice, selfish ambition and worldliness, fled from her presence. She was the high priestess of the religion of Jesus Christ and as such she ministered amongst the people. She was the greatest organiser among the women this Church has ever seen. Others might suggest schemes and plans, but with prophetic poise and essence of values she seized upon the practical features, and instantly put into successful operation every proper suggestion and plan for the salvation of women and for the development of the home. She was ultra-progressive, and yet, with it all, she united a rigid adherence to the vital principles of the relation of the sexes as taught by the gospel. She organised Relief Societies in every town, village and ward. She travelled thousands of miles, and sometimes under the most trying pioneer circumstances, but no complaint ever passed her lips—nothing but rejoicing and words of peace and sweet sobriety. She encouraged women, and often suggested that other women should be put in charge of various departments, leaving them free to develop their own initiative and to carry on the work. There was nothing petty, spiteful or mean about Eliza R. Snow. She measured people accurately, and she had the power to inspire those who came near her, with the desire to do their very best. She had an eloquence born of the lambent flame of inspiration and when she spoke, her words were so simple, so direct and so impassioned that her hearers caught them breathlessly and treasured them forever in their hearts. She led out in all measures of reform. When President Brigham Young desired the sisters to create their own fashions, and wished them to adopt some local costume, Sister Snow, together with a few equally courageous ones, developed the hideous Deseret costume which was a cross between Mrs. Bloomer's dress and the clothing of the Oriental women. She braided hats and wore them. She crocheted collars and wore them, and always she believed that the beauty of the raiment of the woman should be the workmanship of her own hands.
Supreme among all her characteristics was her reverence for the priesthood. She took no honours to herself. She asked for no personal glory. She recognised the fact that not only should the priesthood be honoured above all things in heaven and on the earth, but also she knew that those who were the vicegerents of God upon this earth had offered to women, without suggestion and without request, the highest honours and rights which women have ever enjoyed upon this earth. She would permit no woman to take credit for the organisation of the Relief Society which had come as a direct revelation to the Prophet Joseph himself, nor would she allow any woman, much less herself, any honour for the reorganisation of that Society in the valleys of the mountains, nor for the inception of the Young Ladies' Retrenchment, later the Improvement, Association, nor for the Primary Association. Scan her writings, examine her reports, study her recorded speeches, and you will find in them all, that absence of self-glorification, that quick willingness to give to God the glory, and to accord to his servants what earthly credit there may be for the various opportunities given to women and children in this Church. She possessed great initiative, and yet so quietly and modestly did she work that few guessed the springs of their own activity, because she adroitly set them in motion and watched with unselfish joy the successful results. She despised flattery and adulation, nor would she permit herself to be showered with honours. She succeeded completely in losing herself in Christ Jesus. It is this majestic humility which added so much to the sum of her greatness.
In and through it all, she was a mother to all mothers. No night was too dark, no distance too great, for her to go out and administer to the sick child or to the discouraged mother. She has waited upon thousands and has washed and anointed multitudes of prospective mothers for their future confinements. Always her voice was lifted in praise and honour for full and complete motherhood. She gloried in the woman who bore children repeatedly and continuously. She would often point out in assemblies the mothers of large families as the bright and beautiful exemplars for the rest of the community. And yet, she had no children of her own. It may be that when eternity unfolds the doors, we shall know why she and other childless wives have been denied this great and priceless blessing. Ye childless mothers, it is only when ye turn your hearts and empty arms to minister to other women blessed and burdened with little children and cares, that ye can bear your burdens of loneliness and sad regret.
Eliza R. Snow died on the 5th of December, 1887, in the historic old Lion House. She was attended, in her later sickness, by her beloved friends, Zina D. Young, Lucy B. Young, and Minerva W. Snow. President Lorenzo Snow asked the latter to remain with his sister until the last, and this she did. Sister Snow was tall and slender, with dark eyes and dark-brown hair. She was deliberate in speech and manner, and very dignified. Everyone thought of some Hebrew prophetess when she was near. Herself almost without fault, she was never critical of faults in others, requiring only justice for herself. She poured the vial of mercy upon all who came within the radius of her presence. She was and is a pattern for all Latter-day Saint women to emulate. May her rest be glorious.
ZION PROSPERS, ALL IS WELL
By Eliza R. Snow.
O awake my slumbering minstrel, Let my harp forget its spell Say, O say, in sweetest accents, Zion prospers, all is well.
Strike a chord unknown to sadness, Strike, and let its numbers tell, In celestial tones of gladness, Zion prospers, all is well.
Zion's welfare is my portion, And I feel my bosom swell With a warm, divine emotion. When she prospers, all is well.
"The Conference Folks."
Elsie Chamberlain Carroll.
"O, I almost forgot to tell you, mother; Conference will be held here after all. They have an epidemic of measles in Glenville. Father just got word and wanted me to be sure to tell you. Two of the apostles are coming and some sisters to represent the Relief Society and Primary." Young Richard Easton's eyes had not left the headlines of the newspaper while he delivered this information, and now he settled himself comfortably in his father's congress chair to read the war news. But something in his mother's long, weary sigh, and the way she dropped into the rocker by the window, made him look up.
"I feel like I'd rather fly than have 'conference folks' just now," she explained apologetically. "The house is so dirty, and part of the bedding ought to be washed, and I miss Nellie so when it comes to cooking for company. She always liked to fix the fancy dishes and—well I was just feeling so relieved that it wasn't going to be here this time."
Mrs. Easton had just nursed her husband and four sons through a siege of spring grippe, and was hardly recovered from a touch of the same malady herself. Dick studied his mother silently. His two and a half years in the mission field, he had left but a month ago, had given him a new understanding. His mind recalled the familiar crowd of "conference folks" his mother had entertained during the fifteen years his father had been Bishop of Hilton. There were always the apostles, and other Church authorities from the city, in whom he and his younger brothers stood in embarrassed awe. Then there were usually two or three bishops from some of the other wards, with their wives, and usually a son or daughter or two. His father's old missionary companions from Glendon always came, and his mother's cousins from Freeville. These were their regular guests. Then there were always others who had no special headquarters. He recalled many a time when their company list had exceeded twenty—and there were seven of themselves. Where his mother had managed to stow them all, only a bishop's wife could guess. It had always been a mystery to him, although he did retain vivid recollections of himself and three brothers on such occasions, being packed like so many sardines on the old dining-room sofa with a row of chairs to hold them from rolling onto the floor. He had his suspicions that his father slept at such times, in his morris chair in the parlor, and his mother in the rocker between the baby's cradle and the old sofa. And the feeding of the multitude! Conference time had always been a synonym for a feasting time in his early years. It had stood for chicken and custard pie, and chocolate cake, and fruit salad and creamy puddings. Great scott! How had mother done it? Just she and Nellie—and now Nellie was away at college. No wonder she felt like she'd rather fly. He'd had some experience himself—cooking in the mission field.
"Well, I mustn't sit here, even if I don't know where to begin. They'll all be here by noon tomorrow, and maybe some of them will come tonight. Brother and Sister Duncan usually come early, and the Davis girls like to come for the dance usually held the night before conference starts."
"Mother, why is it you always have such a mob? There's no sense in it. There are enough families in Hilton that conference need not work a hardship on any one. You never get to a meeting, do you? Why do they all come here?"
"Yes, I get to a meeting or two nearly every time, and I suppose the reason they come here is because father is Bishop and it's a sort of custom. Goodness knows we can't always make them comfortable. But they are welcome, of course. I really didn't mean what I just said. I wonder if you'll have time to help a little this afternoon. We'll have to put some extra beds and cots up stairs and I'll have to get you to catch some chickens and bring up a sack of flour from the granary." Mrs. Easton left the rocking chair and went into the bedroom where Dick could hear her opening and closing drawers, taking stock of the supply of bed and table linen. His face had been serious with his recollections of the moment before, but it now became grave. Mother was not well. No wonder she felt unequal to a task two or three women might well shirk. She ought not to be allowed to do it. He followed her into her bedroom.
"Mother, why don't you let the conference folks help with the extra work they make. As I remember it, you and Nellie do all the dishes and everything else, don't you?"
"Yes, mostly," and another sigh escaped mother. "You see, they come for the meetings and—"
"Well, they're not in meeting all the time. They shouldn't sit around and let you wait on them when they are here. It isn't right."
His mother laughed. "I used to think that, too, Richard. But it's hard to know how to go ahead in another's home when you are company, even if you want to."
The young man stood thinking while his mother took a pile of sheets and pillow slips and began to climb the stairs. He noticed that she stopped twice to get her breath before she got to the top. Mother wasn't as young as she used to be, and she wasn't well now, either. That thought persisted in Dick's mind. She ought not to have all this extra work and responsibility. Of course, he would help what he could—but—. A sudden thought took possession of him. Why he'd do it all mission style. He'd make mother go and spend the three days of conference with Grandmother and go to all the meetings and have the rest she needed. He realised that he'd have to get her out of the way, or his plan would never work, because the foundation of the mission style of handling such a situation, was the elimination of all unnecessary work (and mother might insist that some of it was necessary), and every one doing his share. He rushed up the steps two at a time and found his mother sitting on one of the beds her hand at her side.
"I get all petered out, climbing stairs since my cold," she explained.
"Look here, mother, I've got a plan for this 'conference folks' business, and you've simply got to let me try it out. You've bossed me for twenty-three years, now I want you to let me be the boss once," and he gave her an affectionate pat on the shoulders. He sat beside her and went into detail with his plan. At first Mrs. Easton remonstrated, as he knew she would, but finally his determination and her own weariness won his case and she promised to let him have his way, if father did not object.
"It isn't like there was no other place for them to stay," he reminded her. "There are plenty of people to take them in, if they don't like my manner of hospitality."
Dick hustled about fixing the beds at his mother's direction, before he went to the office to talk his scheme over with his father. As the young man had anticipated, Bishop Easton fell in heartily with the plan. "I've worried a good deal over the hardship conference time always works on mother," he told his son. "Of course, we like to make everybody welcome and we are always glad to have the authorities and our friends with us, but it is almost impossible to get help at such times and mother really never gets anything out of it but a lot of extra drudging."
"Well, she's going to this time, if my plan works and if it is successful we can try it every time, and if it doesn't work well, I imagine mother won't have quite so many to do for again anyhow." Dick laughed, as he hurried to his field of action.
That afternoon a little before dark Mrs. Easton packed her best dress, a night gown, a kimono, and an apron into Dick's suit-case, while Billie, her youngest, was getting ready to go with her to the other side of town to Grandma Hepworth's.
"I do hope everything goes all right," she began, as she hesitated a moment in the doorway, looking doubtfully toward the kitchen.
"Of course, things'll go all right," her big son assured her. "And you must remember that you are not to worry or think about us down here at all, and I want to see you at every meeting with grandma."
Mrs. Easton still lingered. "Do you really think, Richard, that you'll be able to get to part of the meetings? It would be a shame for you to miss them. Everybody will be so anxious to see you and talk with you."
"Sure I'll get to the meetings. Don't you worry. Now, good night. I'll see you at ten o'clock in the morning," and Dick kissed his mother on the cheek and gave her a gentle little shove toward the porch.
As soon as he was sure she was gone, he took a pencil and paper from his pocket and sat down at the kitchen table. "Now, let's see about our menu. With what bread mother had on hand and the big batch we baked this afternoon, there ought to be bread enough. If we run out there's plenty of crackers in the store. Mother says she always cooks six or eight chickens—part roasted and part chicken pie—but we'll change that to eight or ten pounds of good boiled beef, which will be just as 'fillin''—and a whole lot more economical, as to time and money, too. We'll cut out the pies and cakes and fancy stuff Nell always fusses over for days. There's a raft of good canned fruit in the cellar that won't tempt us to overeat like the fancy stuff would, and so go to sleep in meeting. This should be a time to feed the spirit instead of overfeeding the body, anyhow. I'll cook two big pots of Boston baked beans, and hull a kettle of father's good flint corn, and bake a couple of whopping rice puddings. I think that, with plenty of good milk and butter and cheese will keep body and soul together until the folks get home again, anyhow."
The next day Richard Easton slipped from his seat, as the choir was singing the closing song for the forenoon meeting. He hurried home where he had left his younger brother Phil in charge. He found Phil with his habitual book, but he had not forgotten to start the fire at the time Dick had told him, so that was all that was necessary. The baked beans sent out an appetising odour when the oven door was opened. The young chef placed a large saucepan half full of water on the stove. "Go down and bring up a pan of milk for me, Phil. It is quite chilly today, so I'll make a pot of cocoa." The beverage was soon bubbling on the stove, while the cook and his young assistant bustled about the kitchen. "Come now, we'll get things on to the table. No, we don't want a tablecloth. Get that roll of paper napkins and asbestos pads I brought from the store. Scatter them around on the table and leave a pile at each end. O, yes, and hang up that roll of paper towelling by the sink. There's no need of mother having a lot of extra washing. No one will object to wiping on a paper towel a few times. Now put the plates on in stacks, and the glasses too, and put the knives and forks in convenient piles. That's fine. Now run down cellar again, and bring up some butter and a couple of kinds of fruit while I cut the bread."
A few moments later the buzz of the 'conference folks' coming into the front door with the Bishop, reached the dining room. Dick with his mother's big apron on and his sleeves rolled to his elbows, went in to meet them. He spent a few moments in happy greetings with old friends whom he had not seen since his return from his mission, then he slid open the folding doors which led to the long dining room. "Dinner is all ready, people. Mother was not well, so we sent her off to Grandmother's during conference, but I hope you won't mind. I elected myself 'chief cook, and bottle washer' in her place. Of course, I can't do it up like mother, but I think there's enough to fill up on. Just help yourselves in the buffet style we practise out in the mission field. When you are through, you will find a place for your dirty dishes out in the kitchen where Phil and Ned will supply you with clean ones."
Bishop Easton stood at the head of the table and "returned thanks," and in a few moments the crowd were busily and happily following Dick's instructions.
On the last afternoon of conference, Dick permitted his mother to come home to see how his scheme had worked out. She was immediately surrounded by her visiting friends. "Sister Easton, we've missed you, of course," said the Bishop's wife from Glenville, with a dish and a dish towel in her hands, "but, I've never enjoyed a conference so much in my life. You've certainly solved the 'conference folks' problem for us all. I have grown to dread the times we have conference in Glenville. But it is so easy when things are simplified and every one lends a hand to the work, instead of sitting around feeling stiff and uncomfortable, not knowing how to help, yet knowing we ought to."
"It's not only easier, this way," remarked Bishop Marrian, of the Hooper ward, as he joined the group, "but we all have a jolly good time when we are turned loose like this, and made to feel so perfectly at home."
From the kitchen door, Dick beamed into his mother's relieved and satisfied face.
PASSING THE MUSTARD.
Even Christian Science readers will probably relish this joke from Life:
"Christian Science father (taking his boy across his knee): 'Now, Willie dear, remember that this doesn't hurt me any more than it doesn't hurt you.'"
A SONNET
Ah, soon spring-blossoms, after winter's snow, Make fair the branches of the orchard trees. And after darkened skies, chill winds that blow, The summer riches come all youth to please.
But nevermore comes back the spring of life, Nor time returns the summer in love's years; What of the prime comes back unto the wife, White haired and dreaming that a voice she hears?
Yes, that one voice that now is heard no more, To bring life's blossoms, save it be in dreams, Or make the summer wear that garb it wore, When all the earth was golden in love's beams?
Ah, in the soul all beauty hath a part: The hair grows white, yet never old the heart!
ALFRED LAMBOURNE.
A Prince of Ur.
Homespun.
The lofty chamber of Azzi-jaama was ablaze with lights if the master workman could not go about, he could burn great cauldrons of oil in the illumination of his own costly audience chamber, even at the mid-day hour. It was a theory of his, that crime and sin loved darkness; light was the enemy of baseness and murder. So he was extravagant in his demands of more light. This Sabbath day he was very restless. His gleaming eyes and ebony face worked with silent emotion. He knew that his daughters and his one cherub boy were about to die. He had been deceived by his crafty wife concerning their imminent danger, and fancied, from the exceeding quiet and silence that brooded over his dwelling during the earlier part of the day that the terrible catastrophe was averted for the time—and he was somewhat comforted. A long but muffled whistle, sounded so close to his ear that he would have been startled, only that his was a nature that was prepared for sudden changes in the universal phenomenon which we call life. Signing to one of his attendants, the thick curtains over the grill-work in the lower end of the apartment was lifted, a hidden doorway was revealed, and at another signal, the eunuch placed a key in the door, and the low portal swung inward, revealing a dark and low passage, leading downward in the bowels of the earth. From this aperture, there presently emerged the tall form of the Damascean merchant. He was followed quickly by the first shepherd who had accosted him at the city's gates but an hour before.
Azzi-jaama gazed sternly at the merchant, who was an apparent stranger to him, and said sharply: "What bird has flown, and whose gold is ready that you seek my presence so rudely and without invitation, through my private passageway?"
The merchant again changed the posture of his upstretched arm, and with his fingers all outspread, he said quietly "The bird is caught, and now lies panting upon Elkanah's altar."
"Slaves, retire! I will call if I require your presence." The black servants quickly withdrew, salaamiing profoundly as they left his presence. The carver turned to the merchant. "Speak without fear. What is thy clear meaning?"
"Thy daughters, Azzi-jaama, now are in the sacred walls of the Ziggurat, while thy little child plays with the fires of Elkanah."
"God of Adam and of Noah! Can such things be? Is my life, my prayers, my devotion to my master, my sacrifices of all that I have held dear lost upon the God of Noah? Can my master Terah sit by while I am thus despoiled? What have I not sacrificed for him?"
The old man's cries were pitiful in their agony—terrible in the revelation of the cankered spot in the strong courage which had sustained him through his chequered life.
The shepherd, distant cousin of Terah, and himself a lifelong friend and associate of the Javanese image-maker, stepped sadly forward and said with profound emotion: "May it not be that thou hast served Terah better than thou hast served God?"
The cripple screamed out with the force of the blow. This was the tortured thought which had banished sleep from his pillow since Abram had last visited him and had frankly hinted just such a solution to his life-failure.
"Out upon thee, for a sword-speaker. Thy thrust pierces my vitals. 'Tis that which makes this hour hell unqualified. My daughters have remembered their sainted mother's teachings better than I have remembered my covenants beside the altar of my grandfather Japheth. O merciful God of Adam and of Noah!"
The two listeners shrank from this naked revelation of a strong soul's unveiling. But they could not stop their ears. The piercing voice cried on—
"Take my life but spare my lovely daughters. They, O Lord, have been true to Thee. I alone am the culprit. Visit me, O Lord, with thy hot displeasure! Punish me with death upon the altar, or in any way that will shrivel my flesh and scarify my body. But spare, O spare my children! These are so innocent, so helpless!"
It was more than men could endure. The merchant said boldly "Men must bear whatever life may bring. Spur thy courage, Idol-maker. Death is not our worst sorrow."
"Ah, thou hast used my title—Idol-maker—once so cherished, so desired. It is that which hath caused my downfall. It was this cunning hand, this fertile brain that I allowed to be mine undoing. I was proud of my skill of my ability to fashion the curious and grotesque idols which should symbolise to these vain worshippers of wood and stone, the very gods which they were so determined to see and touch and cover with jewels. And when my master Terah saw my skill, he listened to my pleadings. He thought it no particular harm to make the idols—someone must do it for these vile Assyrians. And why not we? His will, and my cunning laid the foundation of all his wealth and of my present misfortunes. O that I had slain my foolish wild ambitions. 'Tis ever thus we think the gift, the personal fame, will bring renown to God if we but lavish time and life upon its cultivation. But we turn around to worship at the idol-throne which we have set up in our own minds, and forget to worship God who is a spirit and must be worshipped, in the spirit—jealously. I have worshipped my gift instead of my God. And how much better am I than the heathen king Nimrod, who is now offering up my lovely children on the altar I have myself designed and fashioned. O God, thy judgements are just, but they have slain me!"
The old man paused, his whole frame shaken with the powerful emotions he had called up. With his face bowed low upon his arms, he shook as if with sudden palsied age.
At last, the merchant, thinking to divert his attention, said as quietly as he could "That is not all the story we have come to tell. Not alone thy daughters, but the son of Terah is also to be slain upon the altar of Elkanah this night at rising of the moon unless he will hold the knife of sacrifice upon thy children."
"What? Speak again!" The old man was vibrant with attention.
"Speak, I say—drag not thy words. They carry more than my poor life-interest. Speak, I say."
"The young prince Abram is to be offered on the altar this night, unless he offers up thy daughters."
"Abram? Prince of the house of Terah? Friend of Pharaoh, reader of the heavens, builder of the Pyramids, philosopher, and priest after the order of the Son of God?"
"I have said it," repeated the merchant.
The old man looked for confirmation to the shepherd. He too bowed his head in acquiescence. The Idol-maker was now fully roused. His own loss was forgotten in this new and awful discovery. Though he was a tender and devoted father, he was an all-serving man when the life or liberty of his master was threatened. And Abram was the best and truest friend that the House of Terah had ever known.
"Come we quickly to the business in hand. What are thy plans?" said Azzi-jaama.
Briefly they outlined the plan which Lot had devised, and which Terah himself had approved of.
"The plot is good but what of father Terah?"
"He has been approached. His heart has been torn with the news of your own loss, and with the discovery of idol-worship in his own household."
The old man's face was struck with a spasm of recollection but he motioned for the merchant to proceed.
"The whole equipment of our tents and household will encamp this night outside the gates of the city. We have already secured the most of the horses for sale in the markets; we have provisioned for a year and word has been sent to the very uttermost portions of our tribes to prepare for instant immigration from the land of Ur. We know not whither our master will go but this we do know: Terah has consented to lay down all this pretense of loyalty to a cruel and an apostate senile king, whose only law is corruption, carnage and whose only religion is idolatry."
"My prayers—if I may still hope to be heard—" here the old man's voice again shrilled into personal pain.
The merchant interrupted him.
"Idol-maker—nay, I will not stain thy name with that title. The friend of Abram, and of God, I call you by your proper name—Azzi-jaama, let not thy thoughts dwell upon thy past. The past is an open grave to many of the best of men. But they or you may close it up and wreathe its memory with fragrant flowers of good deeds, if but the gracious monument of repentance be erected over that spot. Forget the past; remember only the promising future. The man is never wicked who acknowledges his sin, or his mistake, and who prays for strength to overcome that sin. It is only when we justify ourselves in sin that we are wicked and unregenerate. Your very sorrow proves that you are still capable of repentance—nay, that you are still the friend of God and of Abram."
"You are not without intelligence, merchant," said the old man with grateful humility, "even one so young can feel for the sufferer."
The merchant signalled his pleasure at these words, and the old man continued "One thing must be done before we leave this accursed place. There must be someone strong and true, with powerful arm and untainted spirit, who will go into my master's workshop and there destroy everything which my cunning brain hath imagined of idols and images. There must not be one idol, nor one precious cylinder left, to canker the mind nor to debauch the imaginations of the heathen about us."
"Your wishes have already been met."
"What meanest thou?"
"The prince Abram hath entered the workrooms last night and surprised Mardan and a hundred followers of the black art in the very act of idol-worship in the caves below. He hath utterly destroyed every image and idol. He hath not left one single toe or hand. There is naught but mortar, broken stones and twisted bronze and gold about the place. All else is crumbling ruins."
"Ah—that image—and that one was my pride—my beautiful—are all gone—but stay! My mind reverts to my sin! My pride is not yet brought to heel before my spirit. What weak creatures we men be! So Abram hath wrought this very needed destruction. How he hates the worship of these heathen gods. I pray that his own soul may never come in contact with temptation."
"He would withstand it, friend." It was the voice of the shepherd. He too was a devout friend of Abram, and he could not resist thus voicing that loyalty.
"I doubt it not."
"One question more," said Azzi-jaama. "The Princess Sarai?"
"We know little of her. She has been cloistered in her own apartment all day. But she has been commanded to appear at the sacrifice at midnight, on pain of being forced herself to sit upon the pavement of the goddess Mylitta. She hath helped to plan this flight—and hath fashioned well nigh all its details. For Lot is not a thinker; he is just a soldier. Abram is shut up in his own chambers, under the direct guard of the king. So Lot hath let the princess guide our plans. And well she seems to know. For even Terah trusts her with direction. He is like a broken reed. We know not what the princess has in mind about her own release, but we may trust her; for she hath surely planned this flight with skill and prudence."
Their conference was suddenly interrupted with another long and sibilant whistle. And the low portal in the end wall was again opened, and this time a score of sheiks, themselves leaders of great divisions of shepherds like themselves, crowded into the hall. The council became general. What was decided could best be gleaned from the closing remark of Azzi-jaama when they were about to separate.
"This passage, known only to my master's household, hath been enlarged by me, till now it goes even to the outer walls of the city. You may seek this refuge, if the soldiers press upon you too hardly. I shall try to secure some at least of my own household, a few at a time, and you may find them gathered in the place of rendezvous when you come without. I may not go, but I charge you to remember those whom I shall place in your keeping. Now, let no man value his life when his master and his God demands the sacrifice. For God and Abram must be your rallying cry. Haste, for there is not one moment to lose. The moon will rise exactly at the midnight hour, and that is but a few short hours away."
The men had scarcely left the chamber, when the curtains at the end of the corridor leading into the inner chambers of the house, were thrown violently up and the magnificent form of the Cushite woman stood before her husband. Her eyes blazed with the fires of death and her huge bosom heaved with violent emotions.
"Thou ingrate! Thou traitor! Thou coward and trickster! Whom dost thou serve? Thine own self! Thou canst not even be true to thine own interests!"
"Peace, woman," said the Image-maker, harshly, "thou hast exceeded thy limit. Shut thy lips over thy ravening passions. I will not hear thee."
"Not listen to me? Fool—carrion—thou death-in-life, what canst thou do to prevent me? How canst thou hinder my lips from pouring out the hatred and disgust with which thy besotted body fills me every time I see thee? Not listen?"
The infuriated woman struck her hands together angrily. As she did so, a dozen slaves came tumbling and trembling into her presence.
"Slaves, seize this living carcass of a man, take him to the lower dungeon under this hall, where all of you have cowered under my just anger. Quick I say—seize him—"
The Idol-maker strove to rise to his feet. But his body was sore upon him. His breath came in gasps he could only fling his arms—those arms which had carved and shaped and fashioned the cunning symbols of the peoples' mad idolatry. A few gasps, and the Idol-maker was dead. The brute woman looked wildly at her work and then with a grunt of fierce disgust she fled from the death chamber.

The Damascean merchant hurried away to speak with the political prisoner Abram. He was determined not to alarm Abram with the recital of his danger until the plans were all completed.
The Sabbath day, with its quiet silences which had been made almost unbearable to Prince Abram by the tense attitude of uncertainty with which all things in his father's palace were shrouded, had faded into the golden and roseate sunset clouds which lay like jewels from Indus against the brow of the western sky.
Abram was still busy with the hurried preparations for departure which had crowded the sacred day with most unusual and much regretted labours. But death and life for all his clan and family lay in the balance. His mind dwelt occasionally on the memory of the Princess Sarai, but so pressing were the demands of his present occupation that he scarcely had a moment to devote for this blissful occupation.
As the sun dropped slowly out of sight behind the western rim of the world, Abram looked upward at his beloved and sacred shrine, now dismantled of all its glories, and as his servants bore away the last bale of his stuffs he saw approaching him up the steps of his terraced porches, the form of the Damascean merchant.
"Strange," muttered the prince in his beard, "till yesterday I had never seen this gracious and engagingly honest Damascean—and yet, my heart is already drawn out to him with an inexplicable warmth. His face, his eyes, his very voice-tones convince me that he is the friend promised me in my dream."
"May the Prince Abram live forever," said Eliezer, in the language of the courts.
"Nay, friend, say rather, may Abram deserve to live forever," and the prince extended his hand, over which Eliezer bowed to the ground in lowly salute.
"Look abroad," said Abram, as he placed his hand upon the rough abaya of the serving man. "What scenes may not the rising sun of the morrow greet in the proud and luxurious city of Ur."
"Ay, indeed," replied the merchant with troubled awe.
"Alas, my friend," said Abram with a sigh, "this Sabbath day is almost all that is left to Assyria of the beneficent laws of our common father Noah. How soon men forget, how soon they forget."
"Ay, my master—if there were no tablets, no laws, no Sabbath services nor sacrifices, men would as quickly revert to primal savagery as would the huge double lily pads in the artificial lake yonder drop back into the single lipped flower of the jungle, if human care and cultivation were withdrawn. It is constant words and things and ceremonies which keep men's minds turned toward God and His ways."
The terrace where they stood commanded a good view of the gigantic slopes and walls of the great yellow-red-violet-golden and silvered Ziggurat which itself was reared in the midst of the priestly college and surrounding courts of the city's walls in the southern end of Ur. The setting sunbeams glanced across the glittering walls of this gorgeous Ziggurat and almost blinded the eyes of the watchers. The coloured walls of the lower halls and terraces were not less brilliant and startling than were the simpler but richer gleams of the gold and silver upper terraces. And the whole structure looked like some gigantic earth-crown, set in its embrasure of surrounding greens and all lay upon the long winding river banks like a jewelled tiara as the Euphrates trailed away northward, its silver band holding the Ziggurat as it were as an earth titanic crown-jewel.
Naught but an occasional echo of the chanting and liturgy of the temple ceremony reached the distant watchers on the terrace of Abram's private Ziggurat. But they saw the procession mount higher and higher, the thin and fluttering white garments of the women contrasting with the dark or golden tresses of the priestesses; the robe of the tall priestess in the lead was radiantly enriched and gloried by the long and gleaming golden fringes which wound about the body from shoulder to ankle. The sunset caught an occasional glitter of a jewelled amulet on a bare ankle, or the long glittering golden fringes, or a blazing emerald in the frontlet of the head dress which was a part of their formal priestly robes.
"What mockery, what devilish mockery," cried Abram as he folded his arms and looked with anguished eyes upon the distant, moving, ascending figures. The occasional sound echoes of the musicians throbbed across the silent Sabbath spaces, but they were quickly subdued by the nearer splash of the river on the walls of their terrace, or the subdued cries of the boatmen who managed their craft as quickly as might be.
"These apostate descendants of our father Shem have so covered up in the centuries since father Noah came down from the Ark, the simple and glorious truths of the Gospel, that it is mockery indeed to worship a god as they do."
"Tell me, my prince, I would know, for I am but a student at thy feet? Behold thy servant, instruct him in the ways of the Lord."
The prince looked with the brooding eyes of joyful recognition into the upturned face of his newly-made friend and disciple.
"Seest thou the abominable idol which stands, not only in the place of honour in many of our market-places and in the Potphar's Hill whereon is the Ziggurat, but is even now a part of the very palace grounds of my father—it is—"
"The fish-god, Cannes?"
"It is so called by the Chaldeans. How bestial to thus degrade into the mummery of idol worship the plain tradition of Father Noah's coming into this far-eastern land as he came down out of the Ark. To make him a Fish-god! It was used as a symbol at the first, and so accepted by the priesthood. But now priests and people alike worship the idol as it stands.
"Noah taught the people that God was the father of the race," continued Abram. "That man had been made in His divine image. Man's attributes are inherited from God, and those attributes in Jehovah have become glorified and intensified for power and action. The human family on earth has its counterpart in the Divine Family in heaven. By the side of God stands His wife, like the woman by the man. They are accompanied by their Son, who is the heir to His Father's power and He is the representative of the Father and His interpreter. As man stands at the head of all created things in this world, so, too, God stands at the head of all creation. He has called all things into existence, and He can destroy them if He chooses."
"Can it be that the voluptuous Ishtar has been developed out of this revelation concerning the Divine Mother?"
"I know not, Damascean. But this I know: God could not exist save it were with His wife and our Mother. Ishtar is the very antithesis of all that Mother means; she has been evolved out of the astrology which has grown up from the true teachings of the science of astronomy so long understood by the descendants of Shem, and even here in Ur taught by myself, in my younger days at the college of this city. Our mighty father Noah taught the gospel truths alike to all his family. These truths have been changed and interpreted to suit each descendant or people. Alas, for father Noah!"
"Where came he from?"
"From the chosen land across the great waters that now divide the earth since the days of Peleg. He and his three sons were the only ones left of all the sons of Adam save except the descendants of Cain who had already drifted over here and had filled up the countries of Egypt, Indus, and all the Accadian and Turanian lands. These superstitious peoples, our great ancestor Noah found, and to them he taught the ancient order of truth and the gospel of Jehovah. He wrote a book on the origin of things, and taught his sons the beginnings of creation and of civilisation. He left his records with his son Shem. But what have the most of his descendants done with these great and precious truths? Buried them in the mass of idol worship and pagan, heathen rites which have merely engrafted into the vile superstitions of these ungodly Turanians. The Rabmags are everywhere usurpers of the priesthood of God. Men have a desire to worship and when they know nothing and cannot find the whole truth, they wrap themselves about with its shreds and tatters. It is the teachers, the priests whom God will hold to swift and terrible reckoning; for He knows what hypocrites they are. And Nimrod the great and terrible—he knows; he knows—that is his crime and it will bring his punishment."
"Dost know, my lord, that Nimrod hath doomed thee for the executioner of the altar, or death is to be thy portion?"
"What say you, friend? Art sure?"
"So sure that every one save thyself knows of this outrage. Hark!"
Even as they spoke a confused babble of voices rose from the courtyard.
"See, Damascean, there is trouble below—" A woman's cry rang out of the Sabbath stillness.
"It is the princess Sarai. Quick, change thy abaya with me—give me thy staff—stay thou in my place."
"But Master, thy life will pay the forfeit of thus defying Nimrod."
Abram was gone.
(TO BE CONTINUED.)
Sary Ann's Family.
E. C. C.
It was one day in September that Sary Ann got a letter saying that her uncle Henry Pixton was dying and wanted her. She left on the next train for Palmyra and in about a week we heard that old Pixton was dead and had left Sary Ann a fortune. You may be sure the news made quite a stir in Fern Heights, and we were all busy guessing what Sary Ann would do with her money.
Well, we didn't see nor hear anything of her for about a month, then one morning as I was busy a scouring my knives and forks I happened to glance out of the kitchen window and I see Sary Ann a-coming through the back gate. In a minute we were in each other's arms. You see Sary Ann and I have been friends all our lives.
After our first greeting I looked Sary Ann critically over. She gave a funny little laugh as she took the scouring cloth from my hand and sat down to my job at the kitchen table.
"Yes, it's the same old black alpaca I wore when I went away," she laughed, and I noticed a new kind of something daring in her voice.
"But your money," I said. "Your uncle left you all his money, didn't he?"
"Is that any reason why I should make a fool of myself? Every one I've met since I got home yesterday has stared at me just as you did. Did you all think I'd come back in a Harum-scarum skirt or some other tom-fool outfit?"
"But, Sary Ann, what are you going to do with your money?" I was that curious I couldn't wait any longer.
"Sally Barton says you'll donate it to the Church, and Susan Gillet is sure you'll go to Europe as soon as the war's over, and Liz Daniels says you'll build a swell house and lord it over Fern Heights the rest of your days. I tell them they're all wrong, though I don't have any guess coming myself. What are you going to do with it, Sary Ann? I'm dying to know. Have you decided yet?"
Sary Ann scrubbed so furiously on one of my thinnest spoons that I was afraid she'd wear a hole in it.
"Yes, I've decided," she said, at last, looking real defiant-like. "But I ain't told a living soul for fear of being laughed at. So I'm giving you fair warning, Marthy Mathews, not to laugh." She paused a minute and threw back her head.
"I'm going to use Uncle Pixton's money to get me a family."
I sat down and stared, hardly understanding what she meant.
"For heavens sake, Marthy, don't look like that. That's worse than laughing." She stopped scouring and looked me square in the face and began talking fast like a lawyer arguing his plea.
"And why shouldn't I have a family? You have one. Every woman in Fern Heights has one, and I'm just as good as any of you. I'm just as good a cook. I love children just as much and know just as much about taking care of them, and a sight more than most of you did when you got your first ones. I'd make just as good a mother as any woman in this town."
She stopped as if giving me a chance to refute what she had said, but I knew it was all true, and besides I was still dumbfounded. Pretty soon she went on.
"Why should I be deprived of a woman's right to a family just because when the rest of you were being courted I was a big, awkward, bashful girl and no one picked me out for a wife."
You see, Sary Ann wasn't popular with the boys when we were girls. I reckon the only beau she ever had was Lem Peters and he was bigger and clumsier than she, and left Fern Heights when he was still a boy, and went to Mexico.
Sary Ann went on, still defiant-like.
"I'm not blaming the men. It ain't them I want. It's a family. I want little children to feed and dress and cuddle just like any other woman. I want children of my own. You can't know how it is to envy every mother you see."
"But, Sary Ann," I finally managed to say, "you surely don't know a thing about mother-love, or you'd know that all the money in the world couldn't buy one little scrap of a baby."
Sary Ann laughed that queer little laugh again. "Bless your heart, Marthy, I know I couldn't buy one from a real mother like you; but for all that, ain't the world full of poor, little homeless waifs who need a mother and a home just as much as I need a family?"
I saw that she was very much in earnest, so I asked her how she was going to manage it.
"Well, I'm going to build a big, plain, comfortable home on my south forty, then I'm going to advertise for my family."
"Why, Sary Ann Dickson, you must be crazy," I told her. "Don't you know that will only bring all the riff-raff in the country to your door?"
"Oh, I'll reserve the right to choose my posterity," Sary Ann answered, as calm as you please. "And if I don't make a better choice than some folks do, I'll be ashamed of myself."
"I'm going to have a real family," she went on. "Not an up-to-date, fashionable family where one or two little chicks have to wander lonesome around a big house, being cheated out of the brothers and sisters they ought to have. There are going to be big sisters and little sisters and middle-sized sisters and big brothers and little brothers and brothers that go between and babies—O Marthy, you don't suppose I could find twin babies?" Sary Ann's face fairly glowed. "I'm afraid I'd wear one out, I want to cuddle it so much."
"But the worry, and the work, and the responsibility," I reminded her.
"And the satisfaction, and the joy," Sary Ann ended for me, with a smile that transfigured her plain face.
Well, the next week the big, white home began to go up on Sary Ann's south forty. As soon as it was finished she did what she said she was going to do. She hung out a sign: "Wanted: A Family. For particulars call inside."
"I know," she confided to me, "there'll be lots of applicants I can't take, for I'm advertising in the newspapers as well. It will be hard, turning them off, but I'll see that something is done for them."
Well, the day the sign was put out Sary Ann's would-be family began to arrive, and after that there was a stream of them. They came from grey-haired men and blear-eyed tramps, to new-born babes. Sary Ann, unruffled and good-natured, passed upon them all.
The Irish widow who came with her nine children, she established in the old cottage on her upper forty, and gave them work. The dozen or more cripples she sent to proper institutions where they received needed care and treatment at her expense. The score of the feeble men and women she took to the old people's home. After picking out her own "flesh and blood" from the mob of urchins who beset her, she sent the ones not elected, away, each one happier and better off than before the interview.
In about two months Sary Ann had her family completed. There were the Parker sisters, Ruth and Agnes, sixteen and eighteen years old; Polly Needham, about ten; Florence Giles, a little younger and cunning little Bessie Ferris, whom some one sent from a distant city. Then there was Tom Ainsworth, most grown, who was a kind of invalid. He was the son of Sary Ann's Uncle Pixton's housekeeper, who died suddenly. And there was Jess Meekem and Billy Stubbs and Vernie Dobson, ranging in ages from two to ten. She didn't find twin babies, but she took poor Mrs. Finnigan's two little ones, when she died, and goodness knows they were near enough of an age. Besides these, she adopted old lady Ballinger for a grandmother for her family. She said she thought every child needed the sweet influence of a grandmother.
Well, I never in my life saw a happier mother than Sary Ann. She got to be really beautiful. It was a good sight to see her bustling and singing about that fine big homey home, directing her happy family. They all idolised her, and I don't blame them.
About a year after Sary Ann adopted her children, Fern Heights was surprised one day to see Lem Peters strolling about the streets again. He had been all over the world, it seemed, and had come back to ask Sary Ann to marry him. They were married on Thanksgiving day, and it's a sight to bless your eyes to pass the big home and see them sitting out on the porch enjoying that adopted family.
SPRING.
By Maud Baggarly.
Hark ye not the voice of spring In the high, clear note of joy That insistently doth ring From the meadow where the lark, Drunk with life, doth ceaseless sing?
Every bough with life's a-thrill The pregnant sod in prescience stirs With rhythmic harmony, that fills With its cadences sublime, Valleys cupped among the hills.
Rosy clouds of blossoms bright Lilting song the whole day long: Over all supernal light And the evening with the hush Of the first created Night
Thus the spring! hark and hear Earth's old love song newly sung Sound unto thine ear Sweet as when the world was young!
A Wondrous Woman's Book.
Ida Husted Harper.—Washington. A notable addition has just been made to the Library of Congress in the presentation, by Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, of her magazine and newspaper articles on woman suffrage, and the various phases of the so-called woman question during the past twenty years. They are preserved in twelve large, handsomely bound scrap books, the contents of each indicated by gold lettering on the red backs. Every volume is carefully indexed and altogether they offer a mine of information on this much discussed question which will gladly be taken advantage of by those who are interested.
The books represent what may be termed the current events relating to woman suffrage and the general progress of women during this long period, as week by week and year by year they take up the points of special prominence just at that moment. It was during this time that Mrs. Harper wrote the Biography of Susan B. Anthony, and the last volume of the History of Woman Suffrage, and the fund of information which it was necessary to acquire for this work contributed to the accuracy of these articles, so they are likely to be largely drawn upon by future writers on the subjects they cover.
By no means the least important part of this collection are the volumes containing the accounts of the great international congresses of women held in Europe, beginning with the International Council of Women in London, in 1899. This was followed by others in Berlin, Copenhagen, Paris, Geneva, The Hague, Amsterdam, Budapest and on down to the large meeting at Rome, in 1914. Graphic descriptions are given, from the view point of a delegate and speaker, of the distinguished people in attendance, the courtesies extended by the municipalities, the receptions by queens, empresses, the nobility and others of note, garden parties, visits to institutions, etc. Accompanying these are invitations, menus, pictures and souvenirs of many kinds.
One page of maiden hair ferns and delicate blossoms is inscribed: "Gathered in the little conservatory at the foot of the stairs leading to Tennyson's study." Under a cluster of pressed roses is written: "Placed in my hands by Queen Margherita of Italy;" and under another: "A rose from the bouquet of Eleanore Duse."
In no other library in any country can a collection of these congress letters be found, and they are all the record that exists of these cosmopolitan meetings, except the official business reports, while the social festivities are their life and charm.
A very interesting feature is the number of autograph letters from eminent people in the United States and Europe, some of them possessing a value even beyond their signatures. In leaving these and other mementos in the books, Mrs. Harper has shown a commendable faith in the honesty of the readers.
Two volumes of especial interest are made up entirely of the series of articles that ran continuously for five years, 1899-1903, in the New York Sunday Sun. This was a period when the words "woman suffrage" seldom appeared in the newspapers and they attracted much attention because of their wide range, fearlessness and satire. Men were much rasher in their printed utterances than nowadays, and they were flayed without mercy, while the women "antis," who were just beginning to organise, were joyfully held up to scorn. These several hundred articles give an accurate pen picture of public sentiment on the woman question ten or fifteen years ago, and they record also practically every important step of progress. It was largely through the influence of Miss Anthony that the Sun began the publication of these articles and she followed them closely and with the keenest interest. This was also true of Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and several of her letters are given in which she urges that they be put in some kind of permanent form and makes suggestions for future writing. Some characteristic of Miss Anthony is inserted, telling how she hurries home from church to read the articles, and a copy of a protest she sent Mr. Dana because one of them was cut! She carefully preserved them in scrap books of her own. Mrs. Harper herself has added a graphic account of how they happened to be written, and has made copious annotations for the assistance of readers.
The opening of the national headquarters in New York, which marked an epoch in the movement, is depicted also the entrance of society leaders into the arena and the new regime of parades, street corner meetings, "hikes," and all the publicity features which are distinctive of the present day contest for the ballot. The books might be characterised as the unrolling of a panorama of the march of woman suffrage.
The story is told of many suffrage campaigns, including that of California in 1896, the first which attracted the attention of the country at large. Hearings before Congressional Committees are given the granting of partial suffrage in various States and the action of Legislatures recorded. The suffrage question is discussed from every point of view, beginning when it was chiefly academic, and every possible objection is analysed and answered. As the years go by, its development is followed into practical politics, and the later volumes describe the victories in the Western states, and the effects of women's enfranchisement on the laws, their election to office, etc. Considerable space is allotted in the books of 1914 and 1915 to the discussion of a national amendment and the debates and votes in Congress.
Through all the early volumes, the personality of Miss Anthony runs like a thread of gold, as many of them were written while Mrs. Harper was in her home and they were working on the History of Woman Suffrage, and Miss Anthony's biography. For about ten years before her death, their association was very close, each assisting the other. Miss Anthony always said that Mrs. Harper's pen came to her help just as Mrs. Stanton's was laid aside. A number of Miss Anthony's articles also are contained in these books, and some which they wrote together.
Mrs. Harper lived to see both Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony pass from earth and to preserve in these volumes the tributes of the press to their memory and her own appreciation of their character expressed in various magazine articles.
It has evidently been a good deal of a sacrifice for Mrs. Harper to part with these books, which have been her companions for many years, but she gives her motive in a brief note of presentation in which she says:
"These scrap books contain a considerable part of my magazine and newspaper articles for the past twenty years. They performed their mission at the time they were published, and, like all such ephemeral work, were not preserved by others in connected form. Because of their associations and their convenience for reference they possess a special value for me, but I think that at this time, when there is so much study of the woman suffrage question, they should render more general service. For this reason I present them to the Library of Congress, although with the feeling of parting from my children. * * * Aside from the assistance which they may offer to students, present and future, their illustrations of the gradual evolution of public sentiment, and the strenuous objections of the opponents, will probably interest and amuse.
"I am deeply appreciative of the opportunity offered by this great Library to preserve these records."
The "records" consist of over 1,800 pages and form a collection of data which never can be duplicated. In placing them upon its shelves the Library of Congress is able to offer, for purposes of research, material which cannot be found anywhere else in the world.
Home Science Department.
Juliette A. Hyde.
During the April conference, this department will hold a session on Saturday afternoon, April 8, at 2 o'clock, in the Bishop's Building. The General Committee will have charge of the convention work, and they will be assisted by experts from the Agricultural College. Discussions will be in order, and all problems and questions which the stake workers may desire to present can be brought forward at this time. We, therefore, invite the cordial co-operation of all visiting stake officers, and specially invite such chairmen of Home Science committees as may be here with us at that time, and all other interested workers. We wish to emphasise the fact that all of this Home Science study is a part of our Relief Society Guide Work. The committees who may be appointed by the stake and ward authorities to have charge of this work occupy exactly the same position as do the committees for genealogical departments in the stakes and wards. We would disapprove of any separate organisation movement which would weaken our own forces and introduce uncertain and mischievous elements into the harmonious conduct of our Relief Society. We certainly desire that these committees shall have the hearty support of ward and stake presidents, but they will operate under the direction of the officers, in the same manner as do the other committees. There is a great field for this work, and we see many wonderful opportunities for enlarging this department and the scope of our various activities; but we wish to begin modestly, and gradually grow on natural principles without crippling any other departments or introducing anything in the nature of a boom which is detrimental to all concerned. Therefore, we urge prudence and wisdom in the conduct of this and all other phases of our work.
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES AND FACTS.
Mrs. Rorer. To Make Flavourings. Grate the outside of oranges and lemons, using granulated sugar, tb. to the half of either grated rind. Drying and putting away in bottles, makes cheap and most delicious flavourings.
Convent Pie.—2 ounces of spaghetti boiled. 1 chopped red pepper. tb. 2 slices of bread and butter diced. 1 chopped green pepper. tb. ¾ lb. grated cheese. 2 eggs well whipped. 1 tb. salt. Flavour with onion, pour over the whole affair in the bowl 1 cup of milk, and bake in the oven.
Mock Charlotte Pudding. 3 tb. cornstarch. ½ cup cold water, in which cornstarch is moistened. Add quickly 1½ cup boiling water, ½ cup sugar, flavour with vanilla or nutmeg, whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff. Place on stove until cooked thin and transparent, add the stiffly beaten eggs and sugar. Fold into mould, let stand until cold. Serve with fruit juice or cream.
French Floating Island. 1 pt. milk. 3 tb. granulated sugar. 3 eggs. 1 ts. flavouring. 3 tb. pulverised sugar. ? salt spoon salt. Separate the eggs, whip the whites stiff with 3 tb. pulverised sugar, (ask for the X or XX grade). Have whites light, but not stiff. Add granulated sugar and beat until glossy and stiff. Heat the milk, place on top the meringue. Cook until it sets. A floating island is never thick. Add the yolks beaten to the milk, put on the stove and cook until it sticks to the knife. Adding a few chopped almonds to this island, makes a delicious flavour. When cold, place your meringue on top and serve.
Fresh almonds will cure indigestion. A most convenient and helpful hint to those preparing a large amount of potatoes for Church suppers or social parties, is to mash them in a bread mixer. They are as light and creamy as if whipped by hand, and only require a few minutes work.
It is becoming a well recognised fact that poultry keeping is an essential adjunct to all farming. In districts where alfalfa is grown, special attention is being given to this industry. The value of the fowls as insect destroyers is appreciated. They are also great destroyers of other bug pests that infect the fields.
PASTRY LESSON.
3 cups pastry flour. 1 ts. sugar. 1 ts. salt. 1 cup shortening.
Cut shortening into flour, add cold water to moisten, but do not make wet. Mix with spoon, take from bowl, roll out four times, and fold. Put away in napkin to ripen. Do not put pastry directly on ice, as it absorbs moisture and ruins the pastry. Dough left standing over night is much lighter than if used immediately after making.
Roman Pie Crust (Individual).
1 cup flour. 1 tb. butter. 1 tb. sugar. 1 egg.
Rub butter in flour, and moisten the mixture with egg, using additional tablespoon of water. Take out on the bread-board and knead very lightly. Roll out thin and line the dish at once, giving plenty of room for crust. Take the additional pieces of pastry left, wet the edges of pie-plate and crust. Place strips around the edge, and place to cool in ice chest.
Filling for Roman Pie.
5 eggs beat until light. 1 cup granulated sugar. 1 cup chopped nut meats. 1 ts. vanilla. 2 tb. cocoa.
A SOUND AND STRONG OLD AGE.
The winter is a hard time for the elders, and the diseases which attack them—pneumonia and bronchitis, Bright's disease and heart disease—are not as easily controlled as are typhoid fever and tuberculosis and the other communicable diseases which attack us in earlier life. In most cases, however, these affections may be checked by living a healthful life, for they are all diseases due to low vitality or to excessive strain of some sort, to unhygienic habits rather than to years alone. Most of the diseases of later life and senility are primarily due to aging of the blood vessels, as a result of excesses of some sort, overeating, alcoholic stimulants, or overwork. Avoidance of excesses would add five years to the life of the average adult. Good food in proper amount, frequent draughts of pure, cool water will keep the digestion and the kidneys in such condition as to avoid many of the troubles of later life. Temperance in eating and drinking, a modicum of physical exercise, rest in the open air, avoidance when possible of nervous strain—in short, that moderation in all things which the Latin poet prescribes—these give the best insurance of a long and happy life.
"Happy as a King." (Grandma Riggs, the cheerful philosopher.)
Ida Stewart Peay.
Most every morn the tots would shout, "How are you, grandma, dear?" When well they knew she'd answer them With customary cheer, A peeping o'er her spectacles Her voice would gaily ring, "Why, bless you, child, I'm well today, And happy as a king!"
Her hair, frost-white, her brow deep-lined Her step, too, weak and slow. The years had brought experience Of sorest trials, I know; But when the maidens scampered through, Enquiring on the wing, "How's grandmamma, today?" she'd cry, "I'm happy as a king!"
The sorrows of the past had left Deep scars on grandma's face Though every softened line revealed Her faith in God's good grace But when a lady old would come And mourn (poor broken thing) "Ah, misery me!" grandma'd maintain, "I'm happy as a king!"
And with her ninety years and one She managed still to bless Some life each day, if e'en a child's, Brightening at her caress. And when she went beyond this sphere Where deeds reward sure brings, I trow the share allotted her Was great as any king's.
Query Box.
Hazel Love Dunford.
[This department is in receipt of some anonymous letters. We cannot print such letters, nor can we answer the writers privately for we have no name nor address. The usual rule of refusing to accept or publish unsigned letters must obtain in this department.]
Mrs. C, Richfield—Latter-day Saint women who have been through the temple know the rules of this Church regarding the wearing of low-necked and short sleeved dresses. When they break those rules, they must suffer the certain consequences of disobedience. But you and I will not be blamed for other people's faults and sins. Let us watch our own lives carefully that we may not become stumbling blocks.
Can you tell me where we get the letters P. S., as used at the bottom of a letter?—c. r. d.
These letters are an abbreviation of the Latin phrase post scriptum, written afterwards in English. The words postscript has become a noun, the words written at the bottom of a letter, with the prefix P. S., being spoken of as the postscript.
A young writer wants to know our ideas on teasing and playing with children before they are put to bed.
In my opinion it is a selfish form of amusement and should never be allowed. It is practised many times by cruel, thoughtless persons, early in the evening. A child becomes nervous and excited, and it is almost impossible for a good, peaceful night's rest to follow. Many a mother has lost hours of sleep because some senseless adult tossed and bounced her baby before he took his bottle and went to bed. The hour before bed-time should be quiet and happy. A good plan is to tell the babies a simple story, let them hear some soft music, or look at some good pictures, and generally this will put the child in a condition for sleep.
I know that milk is a very valuable food, but my children do not care for it. Can you suggest any way that I might use to induce them to like it?—t. f.
It is indeed unfortunate if your children, as you say, do not like the taste of milk, but this is very often the case. Milk is one of the best foods for young children, because it contains all the food elements required to meet the body demands. Try offering a little reward for a cup of milk. Often a dislike is merely a whim, and can be overcome in some such way. You might add a little spice as nutmeg, cinnamon, etc., or make with a little weak cream use milk for the liquid. You may find that your children will enjoy buttermilk where they will not taste sweet milk.
My young daughter insists on wearing low-neck dresses and short sleeves to school. All that I can say or do seems to have no effect. "Other girls do, why should I not be allowed to do so?" is what she always ends up with.—a. b. c.
There is an alarming number of our Latter-day Saint girls appearing at school and elsewhere in ridiculously low-cut dresses. It seems to me that parents and school authorities are the only ones to handle this problem. It is largely a question of "doing as the other fellow does." If a leader in a crowd could be made to see that it were not the right thing and she were converted, there would soon be a change.
Cracked eggs may be boiled, if they are to be served that way, provided the inner skins are not broken. Add a tablespoon of salt to the water, or sprinkle salt on the egg over the crack. They will cook without a particle of white escaping.
A little salt added to the bowl of cream will help if you have been unable to get it to stiffen in beating.
An old flour sifter that has lost its value as a sieve makes an excellent egg boiler, as the eggs may all be placed in the water at once and also removed at once when done.
Children will be delighted with a variation of the old coloured Easter eggs. When the eggs have been boiled and cooled, draw flowers' names, bunnies, etc., by using slit pen dipped in melted wax for ink, drop in dye, and the result—white figures with coloured back-ground.
Mrs. Marvine Brown from Manassa, Colorado, writes to know if we can tell her what to do for her gums and teeth. She says, "My gums are falling away from my teeth and at times are a fiery red and very sore."
From your description I am almost sure you are suffering from pyorrhea. I know of no better thing to use than ipecac. Get a small quantity and rub it over your gums and they will soon harden up again unless your case is too far gone. In that case we advise you to consult a first class dentist. Keep the teeth very clean. Salt and water is a very poor cure for this disease. It has a tendency to contract the gums. You need more acid in your system and less salt and soda. Try lemons once a day.
Current Topics.
James H. Anderson.
The Jewish relief fund received liberal subscriptions in Utah, where anti-Semitic prejudice has less hold on the people than almost anywhere else.
In Mexico, since the present troubles began there, 112 Americans have been killed, the murderers being punished in only two or three instances.
General Villa, the Mexican revolutionist, bandit and rebel, continues on the warpath, with no certainty when his killing and plundering activities will cease.
The "Lusitania" case between the United States and Germany developed into a long haggle about passenger ships being armed for defensive purposes, and final settlement appears to be in the far, dim distance.
Josephus Daniels, United States secretary of the navy, has forbidden naval officers to talk on war preparedness. Whether the gag is applied because these officers know too little or too much is not stated.
The Uintah basin in Utah is to have direct railway communication with Salt Lake City in the near future—so railway officials say. The line will be a vital factor in developing that part of the State.
Lindley M. Garrison, United States secretary of war, had agreed with President Wilson upon a program for the increase of the army; then the President went on a speaking tour and returned with a change of program, whereupon Mr. Garrison, not being able to assent to the alterations, promptly resigned.
Persistent nagging and faultfinding on the part of a wife has been decreed by the Utah Supreme Court to be a sufficient cause for divorce. The rule, however, fits that kind of a husband, too.
The Italian army has made slight progress against the Austrians the past month, in the European war zone, but the situation as between those two belligerents presages little change for some time to come.
Ex-Governor Sulzer, of New York, advocates the placing of a tax of $1,000 per gallon on whisky. Instead of absurd "playing to the galleries," why not be sensible and eliminate whisky beverages entirely? It's the only method worth while.
Aerial raids from Teutonic sources give much worry to the entente allies. Only in France do German airships seem to encounter much danger of being brought down by the fire of guns on terra firma.
Mildred Marek, six years old, was killed by being struck over the heart by a baseball, while some boys were playing in a yard at Nampa, Idaho—one more victim to ball playing by boys in the vicinity where little children are wont to gather.
Dr. John A. Widtsoe has been selected as president of the University of Utah, and Dr. E. G. Peterson as president of the Agricultural College of Utah. Both are very capable men for the positions to which they have been elected.
Lynchings in the United States, in 1915, included four persons whom later developments proved were innocent of the crimes charged. More than ever each year this calls for the stern curbing hand of the law against such mobocracy.
Preparedness for war on the part of the United States continues to be a debatable policy, in degree rather than in essentials. Many leaders of thought throughout the country seem to feel that readiness for war means the development of an uncontrollable desire to engage in armed conflict.
The "Mormon" Church appropriation for its church schools for 1916 amounts to $303,000; this comes from the tithing of the Saints, which also furnishes funds for the support of the poor, and thus the money goes back through beneficial channels to the people.
O. N. Hilton, the lawyer who became notorious in the case of Murderer Hillstrom, says that "Mormonism" "is the vilest thing in national life today—the admitted menace to everything worth preserving." Like other persons grossly unclean in word and deed, Hilton evidently feels that everyone who does not bow to his aims should be destroyed.
President Joseph F. Smith and Presiding Bishop C. W. Nibley departed in the latter part of February for Hawaii, to direct the laying of the cornerstone of a Temple of the Lord in those islands—a gratifying development in the progress of the gospel among the people there.
Minimum wage laws in Massachusetts, especially for women, are shown by the statistics of 1914 and 1915 to have increased the ranks of the unemployed, from the fact that many workers were not sufficiently efficient to earn the minimum wage required by business conditions and consequently were dismissed, only the more efficient, trained workers being given employment.
Winter floods in the United States, outside of the Rocky Mountain region, caused considerable loss of life and property. The most serious calamity was in the Otay and San Luis Rey valleys, California, where 65 lives were lost, 3,000 people rendered homeless, and over $2,000,000 in property destroyed.
The European war's most notable development since the first of this year has been the Russian victories over the Turks and south of the Black Sea, and in the Asiatic arena, to the east extending toward a juncture with the British and French forces that will cut off Syria from Turkish dominion. The "sick man of Europe" seems about to receive a fatal thrust from the Asiatic side.
Louis D. Brandeis, a Boston attorney, was nominated by President Wilson to fill the vacancy in the United States Supreme Court. Immediately thereafter, a strong protest went up, and the Senate judiciary committee held an investigation. The objection to Lawyer Brandeis was in effect that he was an extreme radical whose appointment would be a menace to the public weal and that he had been guilty of unprofessional conduct in his law practice. That he is a Jew also adds to his unpopularity with narrow-minded people.
The Canadian parliament house at Ottawa has been destroyed by fire, and several war munition factories, both in Canada and in the United States, have been burned recently under circumstances which cause a belief that destruction is the work of agents of the European Teutonic allies. Taken in connection with the fact that the Federal grand jury at San Francisco found 32 indictments in February against German consular officials for alleged violations of neutrality laws, the presumed Teutonic offensiveness on this side of the Atlantic seems to be quite extensive.
Notes from the Field.
By the General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman.
Annual Conference. The Annual Conference of the Relief Society will be held April 4th and 5th, 1916. On Tuesday, April 4th, two general sessions will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, meetings commencing at 10:00 a. m. and 2:00 p. m. All Relief Society officers and members are invited to be in attendance. On Wednesday two meetings will be held for officers, in the Auditorium on the Fourth Floor of the Bishop's Building. Matters of vital importance to officers will be discussed at these two sessions. All officers are urged to be present.
Special Meetings. On Saturday, April 8th, two special meetings will be held in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, the morning session commencing at 10:00 a. m. will be in charge of the committee on Obstetrics and Nursing and Public Health. Topics will be given on the Care of the Mother and Child and Emergencies. The work in Public Health for the summer months will be outlined and discussed. The afternoon session, commencing at 2 o'clock will be devoted to Home Economics. This meeting will be in charge of the Home Economics Committee, and the following subjects will be discussed: Household Wastes and How to Prevent Them, Co-operative Housekeeping. These topics are outlined to be given in the regular lessons in May and June, in the various ward organisations.
Relief Society Books. The books for secretaries and treasurers have at last been mailed out to the stake presidents for distribution to the wards. The price of the secretaries' book is $1.75, and that of the treasurer is $1.25. Bills for the books will be mailed to the stake presidents. These books will not be carried by the book stores. Extra copies may be obtained, by sending orders to the General Secretary, Room No. 29, Bishop's Building.
Farm and Home Conventions. The Farm and Home Convention held in Logan, from January 24th to February 5th, was a success in every particular. The attendance in the Home Economics Department was especially large. Great interest in this department is no doubt due mainly to the fact that the Relief Society has taken an active interest in this work. Most of the stakes adjacent to Logan were represented, and many of those at a distance sent delegates. The lessons, as outlined in the Relief Society Home Economics Course, were presented and discussed for the special benefit of our workers. Many other subjects of interest to home-makers were considered, the demonstrations and other special features being particularly attractive. The General Board was represented at the convention by Mrs. Juliette A. Hyde, chairman of the Home Economics Committee, and Miss Sarah Eddington, also a member of the same committee. Every ward in the Benson stake was represented at the Home Convention at Logan, the Stake Committee was also in attendance. Mrs. Ella Bassett, the capable secretary of Deseret stake, travelled all the way from Delta to Logan, to take advantage of the Roundup. Mrs. James Paxman of Nephi was also in attendance as a representative of the Juab stake.
In a letter from Prof. Melvin C. Merrill, of the Idaho Technical Institute, we learn that the Home Convention in Pocatello, Idaho, was successful beyond all expectation. The attendance was good throughout, and was greatly augmented by the presence of representatives of the Relief Society organisation, who were shown every courtesy in the way of special instruction in their particular line of work, as well as in a general way.
Genealogy. Genealogical report given at the Liberty Stake Relief Society Conference by Annie Lynch, Stake Supervisor of Genealogy and Temple Work for the Relief Society: "In making the report on Genealogy and Temple work for the past year, we congratulate the sisters of Liberty stake on the excellent record made. The roll of attendance at our stake Temple days shows that 1,033 days have been spent in Temple work. This is donation work, the lists being furnished by the wards, in turn, of those who cannot do their own work, or who are not financially able to hire it. This represents an attendance of 400 individuals, including a number of the younger sisters. We are delighted to have these younger women join with us. Our Temple work has been a united labour of love, and all have been blessed. We are gratified with the results. This year we have two objects. First, to continue our donation work; second, to encourage and assist, if necessary, those who have not already taken up their own lines. Charity begins at home, and our first duty is to our own kindred. The lessons have been fairly successful. The class leaders deserve great credit for their untiring efforts. The cards filled out each month show an increased attendance and interest. Committees have been appointed in most of the wards to take up the living Records."
Magazines. The supply of January, February, and March Magazines is exhausted. As there are many new subscribers who are particularly anxious to obtain copies of these numbers, we shall be pleased to purchase a limited number of these copies from subscribers who care to dispose of them.
Mrs. Alfred Guehm of Logan writes the Magazine: "I have just received the February number of the Relief Society Magazine, and I think that alone is worth $1.00."
Northern States Mission. In a report from Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth, President of the Relief Society of the Northern States, we learn that there are now twenty Relief Society organisations in this Mission, all doing excellent work. Mrs. Ellsworth has recently been on a tour through the Mission, and is very much gratified with conditions in general. During the year of 1915, there were sixteen societies, eleven of them only one year old. The total enrollment was 276, with an average attendance of 175. Several of the societies have made a practice of holding work meetings on the afternoon of meeting day at the home of the President, and a theology meeting at the home of an investigator, making two meetings in the same day.
In the Winnipeg Society there are twenty-two enrolled members, with an average attendance of twenty-four women. This large attendance was due to the fact that many friends of the members have attended the meetings to assist in preparing clothing for the Canadian soldiers. This work continued as long as the Government could supply material, since that time the Society has turned its attention to the making of children's clothing, which has been given to the needy or has been sold at nominal prices to those who are able to pay for it.
In Milwaukee, there are now two Relief Society organisations, a German society and an English society, with about twenty-five members in each. In the past, these members have all met together, but because of the fact that many of them cannot speak and understand English, it was thought best to make two organisations. It is very fortunate that one of the missionary girls in Milwaukee speaks the German language. She has been appointed to act as class teacher in this Society. Her companion is acting in the same capacity in the English branch.
In this Mission, the Relief Society has established 106 genealogical records, and 104 family records. They have sent in 511 names to the St. George Temple for baptism, and 36 for ordinance work; 1,127 Church magazines have been distributed, and 2,706 tracts; $713.68 has been distributed for charity, $318.36 for general purposes, and they have a balance on hand of $266.61. This Mission has sent in 161 subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine, and have recently placed $168 with the Presiding Bishop's Office for a wheat fund.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Motto—Charity Never Faileth.
THE GENERAL BOARD
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Juliette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards Music Director Miss Edna Coray Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Juliette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. III. APRIL, 1916. No. 4.
THE CHILDLESS ONES.
There are burdened parents amongst us, and mothers spent and broken with the ceaseless toils and cares of motherhood—but what of the childless wives, and the sonless husbands, in this Church? What of the longing arms of women who suffer to cuddle a babe upon the aching breast, and to kiss the roseleaf-petaled, nestling mouth of the newly-born? What of the lonely, sonless husband who watches other men trudging past his door with laughing sons perched on their shoulders, or who sees fathers hurrying home in the Christmas dark, laden down with children's toys and trees to deck for laughter-loving babes when morning breaks on Christmas day? What of these, when preachers rise and bless the parents or stigmatise the childless, and make of them a hiss and by-word in the congregations? The childless couple's eyes are always feasted with another's joys, their blessings are negative in tone and kind. What of these?
The Unsatisfied Longings.
There are two kinds of childless couples: the willing, guilty ones, and the helpless, hopeless, innocent victims of physical or spiritual handicap.
The Gospel Consolation.
The innocent sufferers have, in this gospel only, a full and glorious consolation. For some wise purpose, for some deep, unexplained, spiritual trial of faith, this childless cross has been permitted to rest upon some shoulders. There will be no worthy childless married people in eternity. Parenthood and Godhood are inseparable. And when this life, with all its trials and losses, has gone by, even these hungering souls will understand the cause, and rejoice in the over-ruling Providence which permitted this great trial. Many who have had children here will be childless over there, and those who have been innocently deprived will in the eternities have the blessed privilege of bearing and of rearing spirit children. Endless increase is the promise made to us in holy marriage covenants. O happy thought, O holy hope!
Children Through Adoption.
Some childless ones there be who choose to lessen loneliness by taking orphan babes to cherish and to rear. All honour unto such. Nobler far are they than those who bear their children complainingly and slow. 'Tis a deliberate choice of cares and trials, then, a willing assumption of parents' burdens borne for purely spiritual reasons. Such parents should be loved and respected in this community, and be given equal place beside the fathers and the mothers in modern Israel.
Be Wise in Criticism.
Let our tongues be wise and our comments slow. When parenthood is named and its failures are disclosed, discriminate with careful speech between the innocent and the guilty; for there may be as many unwilling, sinful parents who hear thy words as there are unwilling, guilty, childless married people. Let each one judge himself. For here is truth and justice. God blesses those who bear children to his name just as he sends them—and equally he blesses those who would be parents, if nature had not locked the doors. All honour, then, to righteous men and women, both childless and the fruitful. God multiply blessings unto all.
MAGAZINES! MAGAZINES!
So popular has this Magazine become that we are unable to keep up with the demand. We began printing, this year, the same number as we sold last year. Before January was out we had exhausted them in February another thousand was printed, and those were sold before March comes. We are sold out of March numbers now. We want to buy back January, February, and March numbers. Please help us, by sending a limited number to this office.
Guide Lessons.
LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week, April, 1916.
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. MIRIAM AND DEBORAH.
(Read the following references first:—For Miriam I Chronicles, 6:3; Exodus, 2:4-9; Exodus, 15:20, 21; Numbers, chapter 12.—For Deborah Judges, chapters 4 and 5.)
It is often thought by us modern Occidentals that the women of Bible times were timid, subjected creatures, without any influence outside the home. This may have been true of other nations in the ancient Orient, but it was not so among the Jews. A nation that can boast of a Miriam and a Deborah must have had an extremely high conception of the dignity of woman. No one can read the record of these two women's doings, brief as that record is, without feeling the high place which woman held in the Hebrew nation.
Miriam was the sister of Moses. This is a significant fact. The sister of Moses! Ranke, one of our most thoughtful historians, declares that Moses was "the most exalted figure in all primitive history," for the reason, largely, that he revealed to the world and incorporated in his people an idea "for all times and all nations." Is it probable that, as Moses' sister, Miriam did not share in the splendour of his genius and that, as his intimate companion for many years, she did not acquire power and influence through his mighty achievements? "I sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam," says the Prophet Micah, speaking for the Lord to Israel and referring to the redemption of the Hebrews from the bondage of Egypt. Here Miriam's name is associated with that of Aaron and of Moses as the divine instruments of that most memorable event in Old Testament history. And the pen that wrote the second book in the Bible calls her emphatically "the prophetess."
On three separate occasions is Miriam represented as taking part in some significant action: Once, when she loiters around by the Nile waiting anxiously to see what is to become of the infant Moses in his cradle of bulrushes by the water's brink, and then, when the princess suddenly finds the child crying and takes pity on it, she hurries to the scene, quick-wittedly, to ask whether she shall not fetch a nurse, and brings her own mother. And again, when she leads "all the women" of the Hebrew camp in the dance to the sound of the timbrel, to celebrate the victory of the Red Sea, as the carcasses of the Egyptians float upon the crests of the waves. "Sing ye to the Lord," she shouts, "for He hath triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider hath He thrown into the sea!" And, once again, when "Miriam and Aaron"—note the order of the names—"spake against Moses." They reproved him for his marriage to an Ethiopian woman. "The Lord," we are told, "came down in the pillar of the cloud, and stood in the door of the tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam." Jehovah was angry with them, and when the cloud was lifted from the tabernacle, "behold, Miriam became leprous, white as snow!" On Aaron's admitting that he and Miriam had "done foolishly" and "sinned," Moses cried to the Lord in her behalf, and she was made whole again. But she was required to stay without the camp of Israel for seven days, during which the people waited at Hazeroth. Miriam must therefore have been a remarkable woman. She was a prophetess doubtless in the sense that she, with Moses and Aaron, was divinely appointed to lead the Children of Israel out of their bondage in the land of Egypt to the Land of Promise. As a co-worker with her notable brothers, she must have partaken, with them, of the spirit of prophecy and revelation, and had her part in the direction of affairs, most probably among the women. A great honour, she is, to the nation that produced her.
In Deborah we have another remarkable woman. The wife of Lapidoth (Jewish tradition has it that she was the wife of Barak, who thus becomes the same with Lapidoth), she has been called a "torch-like woman" and a "furnisher of light"—something that is true of her in more than one sense. The sacred historian calls her a prophetess and says that she "judged Israel." There can be no reasonable doubt that Jehovah called her to the leadership of Israel at this time and that He inspired her in the great work of delivering her people from the power of their enemies—which proves that the Spirit of God rests alike upon Jew and Gentile, male and female, bond and free, and that He is no "respecter of persons."
It seems that at this time the Hebrew people had one of their dwindlings into unbelief, in the language of the Book of Mormon. The record says that "the Children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord" and that He delivered them "into the hand of Jabin, king of Canaan," whose seat was Hazor. Of this king the Israelites were afraid, for "he had nine hundred chariots of iron." For "twenty years he mightily oppressed the children of Israel," chiefly by means of the terrible Sisera, captain of his hosts. When this oppression reached the unbearable point, the Israelites "cried unto the Lord," as was their wont in deep distress, however forgetful they might have been in their prosperity. And so Jehovah raised up a deliverer to them in the person of Deborah, a woman.
Deborah, we are told, "dwelt under a palm tree." That was because she was a woman, for a woman could not teach in private but only in the open air, where all could assemble. "And the children of Israel came up to her for judgement," the record says. One day Deborah "sent and called Barak." She said, "Hath not the Lord God of Israel commanded, saying, Go and draw toward Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun"—two of the twelve tribes? Barak obediently came to Deborah, but for some reason—probably because he trusted more in the arm of man, or, strictly speaking, in the arm of woman, than in the arm of Jehovah—refused to go up against the enemy unless she went with him. She consented, warning him, however, that the glory of the victory, would belong to a woman. The result was as she had predicted. Of all the hosts of Sisera "not a man was left," and Sisera himself, fleeing on foot, fell into the hands of the artful Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, and was killed by her in the most ignominious fashion. Thus was Israel delivered from the hand of their oppressors by the inspired mind of a woman. Deborah is therefore a most extraordinary figure in Jewish history. She takes the part both of the man of peace and the man of war. In peace she attracts to her the people who seek counsel and the adjustment of difficulties, and in war such leaders as Barak. Whether or not Barak is regarded as her husband, the situation is equally remarkable. A commanding personality, performing the functions of judge, warrior, and prophet!
QUESTIONS.
Compare these two women, (1) in the situation they found themselves in, (2) in their opportunities, so far as we know them, and (3) in their character and works.
What would these two women be doing today should they have lived in this age of the world? Is there a place for them in our society? Give your reason for so thinking.
LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in May.
LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in May.
GENEALOGY.
LINKING THE PAST TO THE PRESENT.
There are two methods of studying history as there are two methods of studying genealogy. One method is to begin with the first known fact or individual and work on down to the present. The other is to begin with the living individual, or fact, and work on back from that starting point. The second method is the one we have followed this winter in preparing our genealogical lessons. Beginning with every individual member of the Relief Society, we have asked that a sheet be prepared for that individual. Next, we have asked each member to prepare a similar sheet for her husband. Then prepare sheets for each of her children, then grand-children. Now we will assume that every student member in the Society has her loose sheets prepared and wishes now to know how she can put her information into the living family record, which has been specially prepared by the Genealogical Society for this very purpose. There are a number of instructions given on the first page of the record itself, and if they are carefully read you will get some idea as to the method in which you are to proceed to fill up this record but there are a number of problems or questions which arise in this matter, and we will name some of them here, and give you our own suggestions concerning them.
In paragraph 3, of the instructions in the record, we read "It is recommended that the family groups commence with the eldest of the line, who were members of the Church in life, and that the others follow in order of seniority." Now, as a matter of fact, there is a point to be settled. Whose record is this to be, the record of the husband and his family including his wife and his children or is it to be a record of the woman and her family, including her husband? As personal illustrations sometimes clarify a lesson, we will say that a husband, Jacob F. Gates, for instance, has a large family in this Church and so has his wife, Susa Young Gates, whose father was Brigham Young. The record book would not take a tenth part of the Young family and, indeed, it would not hold all of the Gates. On the next leaf will come Jacob F. and wife with father joined the Church with his brother Thomas and his sister Mary. Their large families could not possibly be put into the son's book. These are personal problems. How shall we solve them?
Jacob F. Gates decided to write down his father and his mother on the first leaf of his book. On the next leaf comes his wife's father and mother with their children, including Mrs. Gates. Next, on the next leaf will come Jacob F. and wife with their children. This is a natural sequence as the husband was the oldest child of his father. On the next leaf appears Jacob's brother, Franklin, who was next in age with his family; and so on, taking his brothers and sisters and their families. Then follow Brigham Young and his wife Lucy Bigelow's three daughters with their families. Following these will come the oldest married Young child with her children, and so on, down the list of the Young children. The individual sheets are prepared for each one whose name appears in these family groups. It will take a long time to get all of the information concerning even this restricted family group. Yet that is the task set for the Gates family to do. On the pages where Jacob F. Gates' father's name appears, and on the page where Susa Young Gates' father's name appears is a note referring to other records where will be found the complete record of Jacob Gates' family, and the complete record of Brigham Young's family.
Another question that is being asked is, what shall be done where a man has more wives than one, and where the wife has more husbands than one? The two husbands' names would precede the name of the wife in the order in which they were married to her, while the wives' names would follow the husband's name in the order in which they were married to him.
It is also asked what shall be done where the husbands' and wives' families are sufficiently small to be included back to the grandparents in one book? The answer is simple. Include them both, but if there is any doubt about their all going into the one book, have separate records for the husbands' families and the wives' families, as in the Gates record and the Young families' record.
ART.
SPRING LANDSCAPE STUDY.
I have always felt that I could endure the long, cold winter, because at the end, spring would come. Spring—the beginning of things, the return of life, the return of the birds, their nesting time, the budding time. April comes with her baptism of the new year, and with a week's soaking rain washes away the dead ashes of the past.
THE SOAKING WET DAY IN SPRING.
Now begins a festive season for the poet and artist. Note the dark, water-soaked soil, the puddles of water, the miry roads, the wet sheds and fences. Look at the first bursting of the sun's rays through the heavy clouds. If you will study this landscape, you will find, when you next visit a gallery, a work of art that, without this study, you would not have noticed.
April's moods. The heavy rains over, a playful feeling of youth and new young life pervades all the landscape. The winds are no longer boisterous and blustering as in March, and are totally unlike the winter and fall three-day winds. Now they chase each other, first warm, then cold, then blowing warm again. Like an impulsive, merry child April turns suddenly from smiles to tears—short-lived, for while you tuck your new spring hat under your sleeve, fearing a drenching from that water-filled cloud, lo, the heavens open, and bursts of sunshine, showers of living gold, call life to seed and bud. I hope, dear sister, you are not so dried up, so sordid, so tied to small things, so wedded to the commonplace, that you cannot make an effort to break your shell, and look out into the real, beautiful world, because you are missing more than you think. Hunt for that beautiful patch of willow green that should be somewhere in your valley. May is passing in the season's procession, with her blossoms and flowers. The mountains, far beyond, once covered with snow, appear lace-capped. As the air becomes drier and warmer, clouds hang in great white billows in the sky. What a happy time for a walk into the fields, along the nearby hills.
QUESTIONS.
a. Where did you find the pussy-willows? b. What blossoms have appeared? c. What wild flowers are pushing their way out? d. How much grey colour is seen in the landscape? What change will come presently? e. Describe a rainy evening, uptown, with reflections of light upon the wet pavements. f. Describe the wettest day that you have seen this spring, with a team and wagon passing over the road. g. Describe a scene with spring blossoms and winter snow on the mountains.
ARCHITECTURE.
Devotees and Their Shrines, pp. 124-131.
CLASSIC PERIOD, THE CLASSIC REVIVALS, THE VICTORIAN GOTHIC.
You have all had missionaries abroad, and can no doubt collect scenes and pictures from various English towns and cities. A little effort might bring together a collection of these architectural works, which would be very helpful in developing the spirit of the buildings of the Classic Period, the Classic Revivals, and the Victorian Gothic—all beautiful styles of architecture. Study each illustration, and be able to tell each type given. Name its architect, and name it as a building. Review what has been gone over, by asking each member to name the various types of architecture, with the name of its architect, shown in cuts from pages 121-131. If possible, have a native of England describe the following:
a. Describe St. Paul's exterior—London. b. Describe St. Paul's interior. c. Describe Radcliffe Library—Oxford. d. Describe the Mansion House—London. e. Describe Fitzwilliam Museum—Cambridge. f. Describe other notable buildings in England.
LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in May.
THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME.
THE HOME BUDGET.
If the finances of the home are to be managed in a business-like way, one needs some systematic method of planning her expenditures. The object of this lesson is to give such a system. The plan given here is intended to be suggestive, not an absolute model for every family. But with it, as an example and basis, any woman can make changes to suit her own special needs. This plan is one which has been worked out through many years of experience, and has been found practical. It requires about three or four minutes each day to keep it up, with from fifteen to thirty minutes once a month to balance up. The first necessity is a blank book, size about 7½ inches by 9¾ inches. As it is almost impossible to find one ruled to suit the individual family, it is better to get one which simply has the lines ruled in it, and do your own ruling into columns.
The division of expenses into separate headings and allowing what shall be spent for each, we call the budget. (See Fig. 1.) The divisions given here are simple and practical. It is well to put this in your account book on two pages facing one another. Rule a double column for each heading. The first column under each is for the allowance, the second is for what is actually spent for this item, each crosswise line is for a month. With this system, one can watch each month to see that she is not overspending; or, if she does do so one month, can watch to make up for it in the following months. At the end of June, the middle of the year, space is left for balancing up and finding out if there is left a fair share for the last half of the year. At the bottom of the page we balance again. After the totals are made, place in the line called "Surplus" the amount saved under the allowance; in the one called "Deficit," the amount spent more than the allowance.
The sample budget given here is for a family of five—father, mother, and three small children. The total income of the family is $1,500 a year. Three hundred of this is taken out for investments, savings, insurance, etc. The account of how these savings are spent may be kept by the man of the family, but the plans and payments coming under this head affect the spending under the family budget and must be taken into consideration when planning it. On the first of January a statement should be made on two pages facing each other in the investment account book. The left page shows every obligation to be met, whether to be paid this year or in the future. When this is totaled, the whole sum shows the total liabilities or indebtedness. Below, on the same page, the months are written down in order. Under each month is put down what has to be paid that month—interest, taxes, water taxes, insurance, or whatever it may be. The right page shows investments separated into groups—land and buildings, livestock and machinery, stocks and bonds, etc. Insurance policies are listed showing loan value, cash value, and insurance or death value. When this page is totaled we have the total assets—just what one is worth if debts were all paid. Thus in the small space of two pages is shown the family's exact financial standing at the end of the year, and all obligations to be met the coming year. The statement of payments to be met each month must be taken into consideration in planning the family expenditure for that month and for those before it, when the saving for the payment is being made.
With this before her the woman sits down to make her budget. (See Fig. 1.) The various expenses are arranged under seven divisions Shelter, Operation, Food, Clothing, Equipment, Advancement, and Incidentals. Besides columns for each of these, a column for total amount allowed, and total actually spent, is arranged, and finally a column for savings planned for.
The first heading is for Shelter. By this is meant the house and the expense of its upkeep—taxes, repairs, improvements, etc. Or if the house is rented, the rent goes into this column. We suppose this family to be renting at $20 a month. So the expense for the whole year can be accurately set down, and there is no need to watch this column to see that it does not overspend. But when the house is owned, this column requires more careful attention.
The next heading is Operation. Under this head are kept light, heat, and service. By service is meant help of any kind paid for, such as maid, laundry. In the family we are studying, you observe that amounts spent for operation differ from month to month and that at the half year a surplus exists which is needed later, for in July the annual supply of coal is laid in. A small surplus of $1.40 is found at the end of the year.
The next heading, Food, is one which requires careful watching. First, one must be sure the family are getting sufficient nourishing food, and second, that the bills are not mounting over the sum allowed. There is a small deficit here at the end of the year, but so very small that it is only by careful planning that budget and actual expenditures can so closely agree.
Clothing is another item which requires careful planning and careful spending. It would be well to divide this column into separate columns for each member of the family. Clothing will not be purchased at so much each month, but will come largely by the seasons. A good plan is to write down under each name what each one is going to need and make some estimate of what you will pay for each article. For example Mary: Hat ($3.50), Cloak ($6), Dress ($3.75), 2 Aprons ($1), 3 Union Suits ($2.50), etc. Add it up; it here amounts to $16.75. Compare that with what is allowed for this child and if it is too much study it carefully to see where the necessary saving can be made. Since the sum spent for clothing must vary so from month to month, it is the half yearly or yearly amount which must be watched.
Equipment is the term used to cover the various things needed to equip the home—furniture, dishes, linen, etc. This family spent about as planned for 1915, on this item, and saved some here.
Advancement covers expenses of education, recreation, church, charity, trips, etc.
Incidentals covers dentist and drug bills, and various items which seem to belong nowhere else. An allowance here sufficient to cover small incidental sicknesses is all that is intended. Of course, when more serious and expensive illnesses occur, the expense must be met by saving somewhere else. Perhaps Equipment will suffer first. The new furniture, dishes, or whatever was planned will have to be dispensed with. And anything else the family can do without will have to be considered, and finally it may eat into the intended savings for the year. Thus extra, unexpected expense, in any division of the budget, will have to be met by spending less than planned somewhere else. But if one looks carefully ahead, the year when any large readjustment is necessary will be the exception.
On the top line of the "Allowed" column, under the heading "Totals" place the total sums allowed for the whole year's expenditure under the budget. In the sample budget, this is $1,200. At the bottom of the "Spent" column, place the sum of all amounts spent, as found at the end of the year. In this budget it was $1,200.75, showing that the budget was overspent just $.75.
In order to keep up this budget and to plan intelligently for the next year, one must keep account of all money received and spent. Chart No. 2 shows a method of doing this. A few days only are filled out, but the amounts at the foot of the page are given for the complete month. In the account book, immediately following the budget, two pages facing each other are used for a month's account. The first page has ruled at the left edge a space for the date, and written across the top the month and year on the right hand page are ruled the ten columns.
Under the heading "House" are found Shelter and Operation, which correspond to the same two columns in the budget. Food, for convenience, is divided into two columns—one for groceries, the other for meat, dairy and eggs. Incidentals, Advancement, Clothing, and Equipment provide divisions the same as those in the budget. Under the heading "Total," the total amount of money spent each day is kept. This is obtained by taking the sum of the amounts in the several columns for that day. As this budget is planned and carried out on a cash basis, this sum gives the amount of cash spent each day. At the end of the month each column is added up and the amount placed at the bottom on the line called "Totals." Thus, one sees what has been spent for shelter, food, and every other item during the month. The sums of these several totals should balance the sum in the daily cash totals. In the January account given, it amounts to $87.50.
The cash received is kept in the last column at the right of the page. Above the top line is always placed the cash on hand from the previous month. January first was $1.60. The $1,200 allowed for the year's expense gives $125 a month. This is received the first of the month and placed on the first line of the "Cash" column. In some families the cash would not all be received by the woman in the one sum at the first of the month, and it might be derived from different sources, as for example, some from her husband and some from the sale of eggs, milk, or other articles. Under these circumstances it would be well to leave about two inches of space between the column "Total," and the column "Cash Received," to be used for writing in the items which would go into the cash column from time to time. We would suggest that even when eggs or any other products are exchanged for groceries or other articles that the cash value of the produce be entered in the cash column and the article bought put in the account the same as if paid for in cash. At the end of the month the difference between "Cash Received" and "Cash Spent" gives the cash on hand. In the sample budget the difference between the $126.60 of cash available for this month, and $87.50 spent, gives $39.10, which is the amount of cash on hand to be placed at the top of the "Cash" column for February.
The totals at the foot of the column on this page give the sums to be placed in the respective columns in the budget. You will note that the sums found here are just what are found in the "Spent" columns of the budget for January. Thus, the monthly account is the necessary basis for the budget current expenditures.
This may look complicated at first glance, but a little study shows that it is very simple. However, this particular system, as was stated in the beginning, is given as an example of a budget and account system which has been developed through years of household accounting. Any individual housekeeper may wish to add more headings or get along with fewer, or change some of them. This is all immaterial. Find the system and the headings which fit your needs and use that. But efficient, business-like housekeeping requires a system of careful financial management. And such a system needs some method of planning and accounting as its foundations.
QUESTIONS.
1. What is needed for managing the home in a business-like way?
2. What kind of a plan is given here? If not a model, why is it given?
3. What equipment is necessary for beginning this plan?
4. How arrange the book for the budget? What is placed in the first column of the double columns under each heading? What is placed in the second column under each?
5. What is planned for at the middle of the year? At the end of the year?
6. For how many and on what income is the sample budget (Fig. 1) given?
7. Tell of the business statement which must form the foundation of the household budget. Why is this needed first?
8. How many divisions in the sample budget?
9. What is meant by Shelter? What belongs under it? Would you put anything more under this?
10. Repeat Question 9 for Operation.
11. What belongs under Food? What changes would farm women make? How would you estimate the farm and garden produce?
12. Should we economise greatly on food?
13. How plan for Clothing? What is necessary clothing? Is clothing a wise place to economise?
14. What is meant by Equipment? Can one easily plan ahead for these things? Is this a wise place to economise?
15. What is meant by Advancement? Should one spend liberally or economically here?
16. What is placed under Incidentals?
17. Discuss the "Total" Column.
18. Why must one keep account of all money spent?
19. Discuss arrangement of house account as given in Fig. 2. Why should farm women leave a space between "Total" column and "Cash" column? What will she write in this space? May a whole page be better for this?
20. Should the cash value of farm produce be placed in "Cash" column and the food placed in the Food column?
21. Where are the totals at the bottom page to be placed in the budget?
22. Is this a complicated system? Suggest changes you consider an improvement.
The following tables are given only as suggestions. Sisters should arrange and re-arrange these tables to suit their own conditions. Farmers' wives can use money equivalents in their estimates.
[ADVERTISEMENT SECTION:]
Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 10% discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves.
Please Use Our Subscription Blanks
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
Mothers, educate your daughters—and sons—to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at
The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.
"Utah's Most Popular Music House"
Here are some of the things we are going to give away FREE • Sewing Machine • Refrigerator • Morris Chair • Vacuum Cleaner • Hall Chime Clock • Kitchen Cabinet
You don't have to purchase one penny's worth, to get premiums.
Daynes-Beebe Music Co R.S.M. 45 Main St. Salt Lake, Utah.
Please send me full information as to how I may obtain one or more of these beautiful premiums FREE.
Name ________________ Address ______________
"Older than the State of Utah"
Z. C. M. I.
The Most Interesting, Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections of the West
ARE REACHED VIA
School Shoes For Boys
Are made for service they will keep the boys' feet warm and dry.
Z. C. M. I.
ALLOVERS
are the ideal play garment for boys and girls. Cheap, serviceable.
Including Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts
Pacific Coast Excursions Daily to November 30th
For Descriptive Literature, address D. E. Burley, General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah
English and American ARCHITECTURE By GEO. M. ALLEN is in Mrs. Horne's Art Book,
DEVOTEES AND THEIR SHRINES.
Send to this office or to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned.
PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID
If the "DAY" has been set
Let me sell you the Ring
Diamond Rings $20 and up One Quality Only—the Best
McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
Plan Your 1916 Vacation
See America's Playground California
See the Thirteen Hundred Miles of Scenery via the
SOUTHERN PACIFIC
Half the pleasure of a trip is Planning it
For carefully illustrated itineraries Write or call on
C. L. McFAUL, District Passenger Agent Ticket Office Second Floor Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City
THE Relief Society Magazine
MAY, 1916 No. 5
SPECIAL ARTICLES
MOTHERS OF OUR LEADERS IN ISRAEL With Illustrations.
BETTY MORGAN'S DILEMMA Ruth Moench Bell.
CONFERENCE DATES.
ITEMS FROM GENERAL SECRETARY'S REPORT Amy Brown Lyman.
PLAIN GOSSIP Mrs. Grundy.
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy 10c Vol. III
Satisfying a Demand for Pure Sugar
TWO BOOKS
for Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead
A simplified form, with complete instructions for properly recording this work.
L. D. S. Family and Individual Record
Arranged specially for recording in a most desirable and concise form, its important events in the lives of the members of the church.
These books are sold at $1.25 each
Deseret News Book Store 6 MAIN STREET
Utah-Idaho Sugar will be found all the high-class elements of perfect sugar. This finished product stands the test of superiority because each step in manufacture is carefully safeguarded by perfect sanitation.
Healthy white men of experience, in the clean, sunlit Utah-Idaho Sugar Factories are determined to make a sugar of quality by always maintaining for it the uniform whiteness and purity known to but few sugars.
See that your grocer gives you Utah-Idaho Sugar. With its use you will enjoy success in jelly-making, preserving and cooking.
Utah-Idaho Sugar ABSOLUTELY PURE
UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. JOSEPH F. SMITH, President THOS. R. CUTLER, Vice-Pres. and Gen'l Mgr.
When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction
The Thomas Studio Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. Established 1877
Phone Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY
100 Calling Cards Engraved For $1.50, Postage Paid
Everyone should have a nice calling card, and we want you to call on us for same
Pembroke Company The Home of Fine Stationery and Engraving 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah
Kindly mention this magazine when ordering
The Relief Society Magazine
Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
CONTENTS. MAY, 1916.
Not Even Fate Alfred Lambourne 241 Mothers of Our Leaders in Israel Susa Young Gates 243 Music Department 256 Plain Gossip Mrs. Grundy 258 Betty Morgan's Dilemma Ruth Moench Bell 260 Home Science Department Juliette A. Hyde 263 A Prince of Ur Homespun 265 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 270 Goodbye, California Congress, Goodbye 274 Crocheted Yoke Isabel Whitney Sears 275 The Flowers' Resurrection Hazel Washburn 277 Query Box Hazel Love Dunford 278 Current Topics James H. Anderson 280 Editorial: Paying the Price 283 Guide Lessons 287 A Voice Calling Maud Baggarly 300
ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY.
Patronise those who advertise with us.
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City. MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY—60 East South Temple. STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J, Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City. THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City. TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St., Salt Lake City. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City Utah. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City.
Grandmothers—Mothers Daughters—Granddaughters
Getting The Most Out of Money
will all find interesting reading in
"AFTER TWENTY YEARS" By Dr. Geo. W. Middleton
Apostle Reed Smoot says: "I wish this book was in every American Home."
PRICE $1.25 postpaid
Deseret Sunday School Union Book Store 44 E. South Temple Salt Lake City
To get the most out of money, you must keep it busy. Well selected investments bring good returns. Anybody can invest if they use common sense. But first of all they must get the money.
That's easy, too. Start today with one dollar in a savings account, then make regular deposits of as much as you can spare. When the 4% interest, which we pay, is added, you'll wonder at your rapid accumulation. Just make the start and see.
SALT LAKE'S LADY FLORIST
Mrs. Emma J. Sanders 278 South Main Street Schramm-Johnson No. 5 Phone Wasatch 2815 Salt Lake City, Utah
"The Bank with a Personality"
Merchant's Bank Capital $250,000 Member of Salt Lake Clearing House
John Pingree, Pres.; O. P. Soule, V. P.; Moroni Heiner, V. P.; A. H. Peabody, Cashier; Radcliffe Q. Cannon, D. R. Pingree, Asst. Cashiers
Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City
Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company
The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this.
Relief Society Headquarters or
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. RELIEF SOCIETY DEPARTMENT
HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
IT is the purpose of this Bank at all times to render helpful service and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant.
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK
Your Account is Cordially Invited
Established 1860 Incorporated 1908
THE UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK SALT LAKE CITY UTAH
S. M. TAYLOR & Co.
Undertakers and Embalmers
SUCCESSORS TO: Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West
53 Years in One Location
251-257 E. First South Street Salt Lake City, Utah
Efficient Service, Modern Methods, Complete Equipment
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres.
NOT EVEN FATE
Love, I have walked upon the crowded streets, Thus to my brain forgetfulness to lure, Yet thought of thee the foolish effort cheats, And makes this present to the past how poor!
Here I do come unto this sacred room, And shut the world out as I lock the door, Yet still thine eyes look on me from the gloom, As through the hours I ceaseless pace the floor.
O when I take the pen, as now, and write, Yet think of thee and finish not the line, Forget my words and know not of time's flight, And hopeless sigh for that which once was mine!
Yet then always, my Love, this truth is seen, Not even fate shall change the day that's been!
Alfred Lambourne.
PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND.
Born 13th May, 1844, Aalborg, Denmark.
THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. III. MAY, 1916. No. 5.
Mothers of Our Leaders in Israel.
Susa Young Gates.
We present as our frontispiece the picture of President Anthon H. Lund, the month of May having given to us this true nobleman, wise counsellor, scholar and historian. He is a widely read, and well informed man. President Lund was born May 15, 1844. This good and greatly beloved man presides over the Salt Lake Temple, representing President Joseph F. Smith in his daily ministrations in those sacred courts. And as he sits in the morning assemblies, one looks at his benign countenance, his speaking eyes, and wonders what woman and women assisted in shaping the soul of this great leader, wise philosopher and born philanthropist. And so we present the modest results of a persistent endeavour to discover the lives and characters of the women grouped about the formative period of President Lund's life. His tenderly mannered mother, his brave grandmother, his splendid mother-in-law, and his wise, attractive yet very retiring wife—all these women have done their part in his life's work.
His mother was a refined, sensitive, delicately reared woman. She was born in Aalborg, lying on the beautiful Lim fjord, Denmark, in 1822. Living her brief span of life out in twenty-five years, she died when her little only son was but three years old. The doctor in the house, the subdued voices, the pressure of gloom everywhere, accentuated by the dreary rain without, fell so heavily on the spirit of the child that long years and changing scenes have not eradicated the shock, and time has but softened the pathetic memory, not removed it.
The little boy was placed under the care of his grandmother, Mrs. Gertrude Anderson, who supplied the loving tenderness and the watchful wisdom, otherwise denied him by his mother's untimely death. She taught him to honour his soldier father who marched away with the flower of Denmark's army, in 1848. So attached did he become to his grandmother that he begged to remain with her after his father returned from the wars, and moved to a distant city. His grandmother was the soul of honour; her discipline might be severe at times, but her love shone through every act and word. She recognised the great gifts of her tiny grandson and sent him to a private school when only four years of age. When he was seven he entered the public school, and from the first was an honour pupil. His grandmother taught him to love the Bible. She was herself a God-fearing woman and she loved to listen to the clear, childish voice reading the solemn history of God's hand-dealings with His children of olden time.
When the gospel was brought to Denmark his uncle Jens and his grandmother were among the first to receive its teachings. She was baptised in 1853, her son Jens Anderson being one among the very first baptised companies in Denmark. Sister Anderson filled her home with the Church books and these were eagerly studied by her gifted and precocious grandson. Imagine how her heart must have swelled with pride to see her darling Anthon lifted upon the table when not fourteen years old, by President C. D. Fjeldsted to give his missionary report to the assembled conference. This lofty spirited woman forsook all her friends and associates and with her grandson Anthon took ship at Hamburg, in 1862, in the Benjamin Franklin, arriving in the Valley September 24, 1862. Sister Anderson removed to Cedar, where her son Jens was already located, and there died in 1866, respected by her friends and loved closely and truly by her family and kindred. She bore the severe trials incident to changed surroundings, a new language, pioneer conditions, and the inevitable misunderstandings of new friends and associates, with the same fortitude and patient submission which marked all her life. She was one of those quiet heroines, those modest noblewomen whom life tosses on the waves of adversity but finally lays tenderly on the golden sands of the eternal shores, crowned with the diadem of achievement, her breast composed in the peace that passeth all understanding.
PRESIDENT LUND WAS BAPTISED NEAR THE BRIDGE IN THIS AALBORG CANAL.
MRS. SARAH ANN NELSON-PETERSON.
The subject of this little sketch was known to most Saints in the stirring pioneer days of Utah's founding. She was the mother-in-law of President A. H. Lund, and she had a lasting influence on his life and character. The following sketch was prepared by him at the time of her death:
There are no great exploits or brilliant feats to relate, nor many such thrilling incidents as are generally considered necessary to make up the life of a heroine; still, she was a heroine in the true meaning of the word, for her life was an unbroken chain of good works and as long as genuine goodness, unflinching integrity, and unwavering faith and trust in the Lord are traits esteemed so highly by the Latter-day Saints, so long will such lives as that here described be admired and held in the greatest veneration. We think that our readers will be interested in the history of one of the true mothers of Israel.
MRS. SARAH A. PETERSON, Mother-in-law of President Lund.
Sarah Ann Peterson, wife of President Canute Peterson of the Sanpete Stake of Zion, was born in Kendall Township, Orleans County, New York, February 16, 1827. Her parents were Quakers. Her father, Cornelius Nelson, with his wife, Kari, and four children left Norway in 1825, to escape religious persecution. They were passengers in the little sloop Restaurationen which carried the first company of emigrants from that country direct to America. With the rest of the company which came across the ocean with them they settled near Lake Ontario. While she was still but a small child her father died.
Grandma Peterson's father was a man who had implicit faith in God and always expressed his gratitude to God for His kindness to him, as this little incident will show. When great-grandfather Nelson came to New York he had to struggle to get him a house built, which was made of lumber. One day, shortly after his house was finished, while he was at work, a fire destroyed the house and every piece of furniture contained in it. When he came home his family were all standing in the street. The first thing great-grandfather asked was, "Are all the children safe?" His wife answered, "Yes." Then he immediately knelt down in the road and thanked God for His kindness in preserving his wife and children.
Her grand-uncle Kleng Peerson, had visited Illinois and was charmed with the fertile lands he found there, and he persuaded most of the Norwegians living in Kendall Township to move to that state. Her mother went with them. They took up land in La Salle County, and the family soon became prosperous. The Nelson homestead became famed for its open-handed hospitality, and many a weary traveller rested under its friendly roof. This was in the days before the genus tramp had become so abundant. Mrs. Nelson was kindness itself, and always ready to help others. Often when the traveller had left his wet stockings at the hearth to dry she would wash and mend them while he slept, and the change effected in them would at times be so great that he would not know the pair he found in the morning. A training under such a mother could but leave its impression on the young girl, and loving kindness and solicitude for the welfare of others became the leading traits of her character, and they were quite marked even when she was a girl. She was a general favourite with the family, and her pleasing manners and warm-hearted sympathy endeared her to all who became acquainted with her. When she afterwards left her home to gather with the Saints the young "Mormon" girl was held in kindly remembrance by many people.
Thirty-four years later she visited the places so well known to her childhood. Going through a by-lane one day she overtook a poor blind woman whom she had often befriended in her young days. Calling her by name in the old familiar way, the blind woman over-joyed turned round and said—"Is it possible that Sarah Nelson has come back?" She did not know that Sister Peterson was in the neighbourhood.
When she was fourteen years of age some Latter-day Saint elders visited the Norwegian settlement and quite a number joined the Church. Mrs. Nelson was quite fond of some of those who belonged to the Church, but being a Quaker she could not see the necessity of baptism. She did not hinder her daughter, however, when she became convinced of the truth of the gospel, from being baptised. Sister Sarah joined the Church at the time when persecution was raging in the state against the Saints, and they were driven from Nauvoo. All manner of lies and false rumours concerning them were in circulation, but believing the gospel with her whole heart nothing could deter her from casting her lot with the people of God.
In 1849 most of the Saints in that neighbourhood left to gather with the body of the Church. Now came the great trial of her life. The counsel to the Saints was to gather. She knew that only in the meetings of the Saints could she receive spiritual food; nearly all those who remained who had been members of the Church were tainted with Strangism and apostasy; to remain would be spiritual starvation; but on the other hand the Saints had been driven out into a desert and nothing but the wildest rumours respecting their fate was passing from mouth to mouth. She had a good home, and she loved her folks with an affection—the strong affection few are capable of feeling. What should she do? She sought the Lord earnestly to guide her to choose the right. Her answer was in the words of Jesus: "He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me." This made her part clear to her but it was nevertheless an excruciating ordeal for her to bid her loved ones good-bye. Her mother asked the blessings of the Lord to follow her.
The company with which she went travelled with teams across the states of Illinois and Iowa to Council Bluffs where the companies were fitting out for the journey across the plains. It was a slow way of travelling, and it took weeks to go the same distance that now is passed over in the course of a day and night in the cars. Before reaching the Missouri River cholera broke out in the camp. Among those attacked was Sister Sarah A. Nelson, who became dangerously sick; the sisters did all possible for her, but she was rapidly growing worse. She had no relatives with the train. When Canute Peterson who was along in the company heard how sick she was, he was deeply affected. He had known her from her childhood, and after his mother died he had been treated in her mother's home as if he had been one of the family. He thought of the great sacrifices she had made for the Gospel's sake and then how her family would be shocked to hear of her death. He went down into a grove of trees by the river side and there wrestled with the Lord in earnest prayer. He received a marvellous answer to his prayer. The Spirit of God came upon him in a manner he had never before experienced. He felt that the gift of healing had been bestowed upon him, and without allowing his thoughts to be directed upon any other subject he went straight up to the wagon where Sister Peterson was lying, and as there were several sisters in the wagon he could not enter it, but put his hand under the wagon cover and laid it upon her head and in the name of the Lord rebuked the disease and commanded it to leave her. Her groaning ceased, the cramping pain left her immediately, and within an hour she was up and trying to help others who were sick. She said in telling her experience on this occasion, that as soon as she felt his hand upon her head she knew whose it was although she could not see him, and she felt a power thrill through her whole system removing her intense suffering at once. It was a great testimony to her that the signs follow those who believe.
During the short time of her sickness Brother Peterson learned how much she was to him. They were not engaged. Her pleasant manners had always charmed him; her integrity to her faith had won his admiration, and he looked upon her as almost a superior being; she had been deeply touched by the love she had witnessed between him and his invalid mother, and by his dutiful course in bending every energy towards earning means for her support, a responsibility that fell on him when he was hardly in his teens, after his father's death; and her esteem for him had been heightened when he had filled an honourable mission to a neighbouring state. Entertaining such feelings toward each other, and circumstanced as they were, it is but natural that these feelings should ripen into the stronger feelings of love. Many suitors had sought to gain the winsome girl, but none had been able to strike a responsive chord in her heart until Canute Peterson told her of his love. He had nothing to offer her but his honest heart, but she knew that that was beyond price to her. They were married July 3, 1849, at Council Bluffs by Apostle Orson Hyde, and they spent their honeymoon crossing the almost trackless plains which lay between Missouri and Salt Lake City. They arrived in Salt Lake City, October 25, 1849.
They moved into the Old Fort, and here was born their first son the year after. In 1851 they moved to Lehi and were among the first settlers who located at that place. The next year was spent in clearing the land and building a little house, and then Brother Peterson received a call to go to Norway on a mission. His labours had been hitherto directed to making a home for his wife and child. There was no money in circulation, and he had none either to take him to his field of labour or to leave for their support during his absence. The thought of leaving her in a place just being settled and without any relatives or any of the friends that had come with them across the plains was particularly trying to him; but his wife was ready to make another sacrifice for the sake of the gospel, which held first place in her heart, and encouraged him to go where his duty pointed, and she assisted him in making preparations for the journey.
She did feel lonesome when he had gone. Rumour had it that he would be gone seven years. He was not gone as long as that, but a little daughter born some months after his leaving home was able to read fluently in the first reader when he returned. Sister Peterson was blessed in having many friends, and they were a great comfort to her. During her husband's absence an Indian war broke out in Utah County, and the few settlers at Lehi moved together for protection. Sister Peterson and Sister Kearns, whose husband was labouring as a missionary on the Sandwich Islands, moved into a little house which they occupied together. They found much comfort in each other's society and a strong attachment sprang up between them and also between their children. When their husbands returned they became almost like David and Jonathan. It was interesting to hear Sister Peterson relate their experiences during this trying period. When exciting news had been received of the depredations of the Indians in the neighbourhood it caused them many sleepless nights. The footstep of a passer-by or the tramping of roaming cattle would fill them with anxiety; any unusual noise in the stillness of the night would startle them. If one of them should fall asleep the other would be sure to be on guard.
Sister Peterson also passed through the grasshopper war during the time her husband was away. While so many families had to live on roots and greens, not being able to procure flour, she and her children never lacked for bread. She felt the Lord provided for her and it filled her with deep gratitude to Him.
It was a happy meeting when her husband returned. She was proud and thankful that he had accomplished an honourable and successful mission to the land of her forefathers, and had brought a large company of Saints back with him. He had gone literally without purse or scrip and the Lord had marvellously opened the way for him. He found that she had been a splendid manager, for she had not only sustained herself and her children, but was in a much better condition financially than when he left.
After his return Brother Peterson worked hard to make his family comfortable, and the Lord prospered him. He also spent much time in the ministry, being called to act as counsellor to Bishop Evans of Lehi. In those early days there were no railroads and all travel and freighting were done with teams. As Brother Peterson was so well known to the Scandinavians, and living only a day's travel from Salt Lake City, his place became a convenient point for them to stop both going to and returning from the city, and hundreds received a welcome under his hospitable roof. Sister Peterson had the peculiar knack of making people feel entirely at home when they were her guests.
In 1867 her husband was called to be bishop of Ephraim. Again she had to bid good-bye to a host of dear friends and help her husband begin a new home. This she did cheerfully. Soon after her arrival at Ephraim the sisters chose her to preside over the Relief Society there. From this time began her public career as a leader among the sisters in charitable works, and this was continued till her death—nearly thirty years. Under her able management this society became very prosperous. Nearly all the women in Ephraim were enrolled as members. The poor were looked after and the sisters would take turns to watch over and nurse the sick. Besides this—the prime object of the society—the sisters built a hall of their own in which they held their meetings; these were almost as the love feasts of old, a sisterly affection binding all the members together. When the Manti Temple was building, the society made large donations towards its erection. When the First Presidency counselled the people to store up grain for a time of need this society stored up many hundred bushels of wheat. Considerable means were also furnished missionaries to take them on their way and to their families at home. All was raised through small contributions.
Shortly after she had become President of this society great exertions were made by the Saints to gather the poor from the old countries. Several thousand dollars were collected in Ephraim alone for this purpose. Sister Peterson and the sisters devised a scheme as novel as it was unique, to raise means for this worthy object. The members of the society agreed among themselves that they would donate all the eggs their hens should lay on Sundays for the purpose of emigrating the poor. This was carried out for many years and some of the other settlements followed the example of the good sisters of Ephraim. It looked as if the chickens entered into the spirit of the thing for they seemed to lay more eggs on Sunday than on any other day in the week! Hundreds of dollars were raised in this way and many a poor Saint owes his deliverance from Babylon to the eggs deposited on Sunday by the feathered layers.
When the Sanpete Stake was organised, in 1877, Bishop Canute Peterson was appointed to preside over it. Sister Peterson was made counsellor to Sister M. A. P. Hyde, the president of the Relief Societies in that stake. Her sphere of action had now become enlarged, but she found time to attend to her duties and she performed them faithfully. With her husband she often visited the different towns in the stake and she would meet with the members of the various societies. Her presence was always hailed with delight by the sisters, her counsel was highly valued, and her influence for good over them was very great.
Sister Peterson was a loving mother and an affectionate wife. She was the mother of nine children, of whom two daughters and four sons survive her, namely: Peter C. Canute, (dead), Sarah Ann, Parley P. Canute, W. Nels, (dead), Martha A., (dead), Herbertia W., and John. She and her husband had known each other since they were children. The love which united their hearts in early life grew stronger and stronger during forty-seven years' companionship in married life. It made them inseparable in life, it will make them one through all eternity. They were both firm believers in all the principles of the gospel, and she sustained her husband faithfully in yielding obedience to them. Her course in all the conditions of life, and especially in the family relation, was a most judicious and exemplary one. She showed her faith in her works.
In the winter of 1895-6 "Grandma" Peterson, as she was lovingly called, had a severe attack of sickness from which she never entirely recovered. She bore her suffering with saint-like fortitude and patience. Though afflicted with an incurable disease she tried to keep this fact from the knowledge of her loved ones, that she might spare them the pain the discovery of this would cause them, and even under these circumstances she had comforting and encouraging words for others. Her youngest son had been called to go to Norway on a mission; seeing his mother so sick he told her he would get his mission postponed until she was better. "No, my son," said this noble woman, "go and do your duty and obey the Lord's call. If we do not meet again here on earth we shall in heaven." She lived only a little more than a week after he left. On the 20th of May, 1896, her gentle spirit took its flight from its earthly tabernacle, and returned to Him who gave it.
Sister Peterson was an industrious and economical housewife. It was a mystery how she accomplished so much. She never seemed hurried and she was never too busy to render a service to others. Her husband loved to hear her read, and they often found time to enjoy the papers or some good book together. She was an excellent nurse. How welcome she was in the sick-room! None could make the pillow so soft, none could make the food so palatable, and none could make the sick forget their suffering as she could. How many nights she has spent at the sick bed of others! Her husband gently remonstrating would say, "They are wearing out my Sarah." She had a genial and happy disposition. She would discover a bright side to all the happenings of life. She had studied and learned well the lesson of acknowledging the hand of the Lord in all things. Sunshine or storm, joy or sorrow, prosperity or adversity, all inspired her with gratitude and submission to the good Father. She had a remarkable power to imbue others with the same cheerful hopefulness which she felt. Wherever she went she filled the house with sunshine. Her life was a beautiful one. She lived for the happiness of others and in doing this she found the key to true happiness herself.
Brother C. C. A. Christensen, who was well acquainted with her for nearly forty years, writes to Bikuben: "In my opinion Sister Peterson came as near to perfection as it is possible for mortals to do. She was noble-minded, self-sacrificing, and unselfish, free from vanity, diligent, and God-fearing, saving toward herself, but liberal to the needy; and her greatest pleasure was to do good to others and ameliorate their sufferings."
The Ephraim Enterprise says: "The funeral services were held in the Tabernacle Friday, May 22, 1896. People from all parts of the State who knew and loved the deceased were present to pay their last sad tribute of respect to the departed sister. Feeling addresses were made by Apostles Francis M. Lyman and John Henry Smith and many others who spoke of the noble character of the deceased, and eulogised her for the grand work she had done for humanity. The funeral procession was the largest ever seen in this city." The Tabernacle was tastefully decorated with white crepe and flowers. The coffin was also white and covered with flowers and other tokens of the love and respect she had won. At the foot of the coffin was an inscription encircled with beautiful flowers which in a few words sums up the pretty story of her life—
"Faith, hope, and charity were in her soul combined, And noble deeds like lovely flowers through all her life entwined. She now has left us, but has only gone to rest, And with the Saints in Paradise is happy and is blest."
SARAH ANN PETERSON LUND. The wife of President Lund.
Sarah Ann Peterson-Lund, is the eldest daughter of President Canute Peterson and his wife Sarah Nelson-Peterson. She was born in Lehi, January 4, 1853. Her father had left the expectant mother to go upon a mission to Scandinavia, in December, 1852. He was on the ocean, off the New Foundland coast the night of January 4, in a terrific storm, doing his strenuous part at the pumps to prevent the distressed ship from sinking. After hours of superhuman effort he was released for a little rest. Throwing himself on his bunk he fell asleep at once, and was transported on the magic carpet of dreamland to his cabin in the Wasatch mountains. He saw his wife in her bed of recent delivery, saw the tiny baby girl who lay beside her on the pillow, also he saw all the others in the room exactly as they were then engaged, and he lifted up his heart and rejoiced before the Lord. He wrote home the full account of this dream before ever he heard a word of news concerning the same.
Sarah Peterson was the merriest, keenest witted, best loved girl in the village of Lehi. She early showed that finely balanced character which won the respect as well as the admiration of her associates. She inherited the quick wit of her father, the wisdom and sweetness of her mother's spirit, and added to it a reticence all her own. She never sought friends nor friendship for she had no need; in her own home, her own family, and her own town she was sought by everybody else. Her infectious laugh, her brilliant sallies, and her instant repartee made her the sparkling center of her social universe. She was married to Anthon H. Lund on the 2nd of May, 1870, and with home and children there developed a devoted consecration of her whole powers of mind and body to husband and family. So completely has this lovely woman absorbed herself in her home, so tenderly devoted has she been to her children that she has gradually slipped out from public gaze, happy in her home seclusion, content to be the center of life to her family and intimate friends. Sister Lund accompanied her husband to Europe, in 1909, but suffered so much with the changing diets and ship malaise that the recollection is a nightmare rather than a joy. She rarely goes from home, an occasional visit to her family and old friends in Sanpete, breaking the sweet monotony of her busy sequestered life. When "Aunt Sanie" comes to town in Ephraim, the fatted calf is killed, and the clans gather from far and near. The heart of her husband has found so pure, so peaceful a haven in her tender ministrations that he too loves to be close to the home circle. And only their own best friends know how perfect is that ideal home life, how convincing its appeal, how satisfying are its joys. A perfect housekeeper, a trained cook, and a dignified gentle lady in every sense of the word, she yet gives the wheel of merry conversation around the table or by the fireside so keen a twist, so jolly a flip, that gales of laughing punctuate every discussion and add zest to every recital. Withal, she has supreme native intelligence. Like her mother, she is filled with the spirit of wisdom and integrity. It is a pity that her presence is not possible in the public councils of the women of this Church. For rarely has a more gifted and abler mind been given to woman. She seldom errs in judgement, and is the soul of loyalty and discretion. She moves with a gentle dignity and speaks with a quick sympathetic responsiveness, kindling in those about her the desire to say and to do the best that in them lies. Small wonder, then, that her husband and children regard her with a devoted love and profound admiration. Her sons are well known citizens of Utah, Professor Anthon C. Lund being the famous Provo musician and leader; another son being the popular physician, Dr. H. Z. Lund; another a lawyer, H. C. Lund, and another is the Church Historian, A. William Lund; her one daughter Eva, also a musician, is very much like her mother, and is a joy to the whole family.
MRS. SARAH A. PETERSON LUND, Wife of President A. H. Lund.
The children of Sarah A. Lund are Anthony C. Lund, born 25th February, 1871; Henry C. Lund, born 13th April, 1873; Sarah H., born 19th June, 1875; Dr. Herbert Z. Lund, born 17th January, 1877; Canute, born 19th September, 1879, died; Othniel, born 27th February, 1881; A. William, born 10th August, 1886; George Cannon, born 5th March, 1891; Eva, born 11th April, 1893.
Sister Lund is loved by all who know her, and has not an enemy in the world. Her influence over her husband has been of the best and finest type of womanly sympathy and womanly devotion. What her hands hath found to do, in her own sphere, she hath done with her might.
Have you gazed on naked grandeur, where there's nothing else to gaze on, Set pieces and drop curtain scenes galore, Big mountains, heaved to heaven, which the blinding sunsets blazon, Black canyons where the rapids rip and roar? Have you seen God in his splendours, heard the text that nature renders? You'll never hear it from the family pew. The simple things, the true things, the silent men who do things, Then listen to the West—it's calling you.
SELECTED. ROBERT W. SERVICE.
Music Department.
We who love and make music today do not ask who has made it possible for these sweet sounds to be combined in such a way as to charm our ears and to soothe our weary hearts. We are told in Genesis 4:21 that Tubal Cain, grandson of Cain, "was the father of all such as handled the harp and organ." So that it was very early in the history of the world that music was developed into an art.
The first music was, perhaps, made through signals, and a cry uttered across the wastes to attract attention, or through implements clashed loudly together to frighten someone or something away. The savages love noise, and a baby is a savage in that direction. Give the baby a tin pan and a stick and there is no limit to the time he will spend pounding out rattling sounds from his impromptu drum. Noise is not music, although all music is noise, in a certain sense. The sound of the waves upon the shore, the wind whispering in the leaves, the streams, rushing over their pebbly beds, all these constitute, for delicately attuned ears, a natural music. Perhaps we might say that those clear sounds which we like are music, and those which we do not like are noise, to us at least. A harsh sound is always noise to the refined ear, although the savage may enjoy it and call it music.
All arts began by being crafts, and it may have taken thousands of years for a craft to emerge into the first stage of artistic beauty. Art means the making of something beautiful in which we can express our feelings, or in which we can see a story, such as a picture, a poem, a building, a figure or harmonic sounds. Things which are useful and which belong in the class we call crafts, such as tables, chairs, couches, and other furniture, are distinguished from arts and are called crafts. Of course, furniture can be made ugly or beautiful, but a table cannot make you feel sad or glad when you look at it, no matter how well it has been put together; a picture, a poem, or a piece of music, can make you feel happy or mournful and because of this, either these are counted arts and they always are higher than the crafts.
This department will welcome musical reports, notes and questions pertaining to music, and especially music in the Relief Society. Stake choir leaders are requested to send in reports to The Musical Department, Relief Society Magazine.
MUSIC IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
We are delighted with the progress made in our General Board choir and in some of the stake choirs throughout the Church. In a letter recently received from a stranger in the East, she says: "I have yet to see a school in which was maintained a high standard of musical training that did not have equally high standards in other subjects." We may well apply this to our Relief Society work.
Granite Stake Relief Society Choir Report, for the year 1915.
The following report from the Granite stake choir leader will be interesting and suggestive to all our members:
Members ........................ 60 Average attendance about ........... 40 Wards represented ................ 11 Rehearsals held .................. 18 Socials held .................... 3 Conferences (4 Sessions) ........... 2 Officers' Meetings ................ 1 Conventions (2 Meetings) ........... 1 Genealogical Program .............. 1 Programs County Infirmary ......... 3 Sunday Evening R. S ............... 1 Mothers' Meeting ................. 1 Total .......................... 32
We furnished a full program on Genealogical Sunday in one ward. In another, a program for their Sunday evening R. S. meeting; a program of original music at our R. S. conference; two programs of John M. Chamberlain's music; a big Christmas program, and on November 21, R. S. Sunday evening, our choir divided and took part in several ward programs. We love our work and are full of enthusiasm.
Lucy May Green, Chorister. Ida Horne White, Organist. Alice Behling, Secretary.
Plain Gossip.
By Mrs. Grundy.
Carline came over to my back porch to pay back that cup of sugar she owed me, and she says, says she: "Ain't it something fierce the way doctors is raising prices on us?" And I says, says I: "Well, how are the poor doctors going to get rich if they don't take a rise out of us deluded women? Think of all the poor doctors," says I, "lots on 'em with only one buzz-wagon apiece, and think of all the debts we owe that we never pay the poor fellers. Think of the people that get fed up with pills and powders which they buy out of their own money in the drug store, and then they forget to pay the doctor man who tells them what pills and powders to get. I am just as sorry as I can be for the poor doctors." "Yes, so am I," she says, says she, sarcastic-like, "sorry for the poor doctors. But ain't it a funny thing that most of the honest doctors are poor. That's not saying, howsomever, that all poor doctors are honest." Then I says, "Well, not all the doctors are highway robbers like them you talk about, for one on 'em treated my gal for six weeks and she went there pretty nigh every day and he only charged her $25, but he ain't very rich and he don't drive no $5,000 self-starter. He does lots of work for charity, and charity people do lots of cash rustling for him. They sure do their clean best to help us live and to help us die, and I just wonder how anybody ever got well in this town afore we had a doctor," I says.
She just nailed me with her snapping black eyes and she says, says she: "These poor men can't afford to put no advertising into the papers, and so you see we have to have 'em come and talk to us in Relief Society and Parents' Class, so that they can get a little free advertising, for nothing." I guess I snorted some at that, 'cause my sister's husband's nephew is one of the doctors. But she just continued right on; and she says, says she: "Well, why can't they get rich? I ain't hindering 'em any, only I still stick to olive oil, and try to get my upperty daughters-in-law to be satisfied with giving a baby a little saffron tea, and the mother a bowl of catnip and a dose of castor oil, after the babies are born. My goodness," she says, says she, "I've had eleven children and all on 'em came into the world with just a good, kind midwife 'round. Can't see but what the babies was all right after they got here, too." "Well," I says, "maybe you got along all right, but some poor critters don't get along all right, and then they have to have some man doctor to come and see what's the matter." "I just declare," she says, says she, "it beats me all to pieces why women ain't got sense enough to be what women have been for 6,000 years in the world, and that's to be out and out midwives." "Sometimes," I says, "there's something wrong, then what would you do? And then sometimes women go on till they get bed-fever, they call it puerperal fever, now-days." She says, says she, "All that comes long side of baby rash and other things what come to babies and women when people ain't clean. If ye just read the Bible and see what Moses taught the children of Israel you'd know that most all the trouble comes from being dirty. If everybody would just be clean inside and out, downside and up, there would be a whole lot of less sickness an' doctoring." "Say," I asked her, "What's this here clean stunt they call 'septic clean'?" "Oh," she says, says she, "that means getting all the dirt out from under your finger nails, and from the rough places in your hands, and every scrap of dandruff out your hair. If ye just take a little sugar and rub over your hands and then wash them in pretty nigh boiling hot water, you will have them 'septically clean'." I says, says I, "Well, that's worth knowing. I will try that sugar business, if sugar don't go up to $16 a pound. But what you got all this kick on for about the doctors?" says I, and then she flared up and she says, says she, "Don't you know what they've done just lately? Don't you know they got a medical pool, which ain't a bathing place, but some kind of a close-mouthed crowd where they all get together and decide to skin the other feller and these here doctors have raised the price in that 'ere pool to $35 a baby. Get on to that, will you? And here's my son Jim's wife just going to have her second baby in twenty months, and they been living on bread and taters for a year to save 'nough out of their $60 a month wages to pay for the first baby and for Jim's tonsils being yanked out, and his nose bored into at $40 per. Jim says fatherhood comes high, and I guess unless their religion comes in to hold 'em level, there won't be many more $35 babies in that house." Then I says, says I, "Well, that is some charge, ain't it? 'Pears to me like we'll have to get up some kind of a boycott on the doctors, and get 'em on the run by sending up more of our women to study how to be midwives in the Relief Society Nurse School." "Yes," she says, says she, "me for the nurse course, next fall, in Salt Lake City, providing and supposing the doctors don't continue to boycott the midwives and make of 'em hisses and bywords." With that she took her cup, and I called over the fence: "Don't use all your sugar to clean your hands with, 'cause it's rising right now, out of sight."
Betty Morgan's Dilemma.
Ruth Moench Bell.
"What's the matter now?" Mayor Jones looked up apprehensively when his mother, white and breathless, rushed into his office. "One of Betty Morgan's boys has been taken to the juvenile court," Mrs. Jones explained in one breath, as she sank into the chair her son set out for her. "Betty Morgan's boys?" the mayor puzzled. "Why, the youngest of them is six feet in his stockings and considerably beyond juvenile court jurisdiction." "I don't mean her sons or her grandsons," Mrs. Jones explained. "She has been letting the neighbour children come in for a story hour once or twice a week, telling them about the great musicians, and playing their compositions for them, till the children are all on fire to do something themselves. Little Jimmy Walker was selling gunny sacks to get the money to buy a violin. I suppose he found a sack in somebody's back-yard and took it, thinking it was no use and they have stirred up a fuss and had him arrested. Well, I'm sure I can't see anything to laugh about." Mrs. Jones expostulated as the Mayor sat back in his chair and rocked with laughter. "Betty is almost sick over it, and the boy and his parents are broken-hearted about the disgrace."
Mayor Jones quit laughing long enough to say: "Haven't you grandmothers had trouble enough with the young scalawags you've reared without taking another bunch on your hands to worry over?" "It hasn't been a worry," Mrs. Jones defended. "Betty has had the most interesting kind of a time with those eager youngsters. And they are all saving their pennies and chopping wood for neighbours and selling papers and staying away from picture shows to save the dimes so they can buy them some instruments and have a juvenile band and a young people's orchestra." "Why not a symphony orchestra and a grand opera company?" the mayor laughed. "It would be just as reasonable." "Well, why not?" his mother answered seriously. "I hope some day we shall have both." "Why, it would take those children ten years to accumulate enough dimes and pennies to buy the instruments alone for their juvenile band." "That's the pathetic part of it." Mrs. Jones admitted. "And it would mean so much to them if they could only have it. And there is Arthur Halgrave, with all his talent, driving a dray for a living. He hasn't had a bit of substantial encouragement since he returned from his studies in Boston. A juvenile band that might grow into a big, fine band is the dream of his life. Half the money this town spends on picture shows, if spent on listening to our own children's concerts would pay for the instruments and instructions and give the young people some encouragement to develop their God-given talents." "Hear, hear!" the Mayor cried, delightedly; "why, mother, you are getting eloquent." "I feel eloquent, or indignant, or something, when I see those enthusiastic boys and girls yearning to do something themselves instead of merely listening to or about somebody else. Why can't we have 'Made in Utah' our slogan for amusements as well as anything else? We wouldn't need juvenile courts if we had juvenile bands and such interests to keep the young folks busy and happy and aspiring. It was some such ideal as this that President Brigham Young was trying to establish in the old pioneer days. Think of the home theatricals and the joy they gave." "I believe you are right, Mother." Mayor Jones had grown suddenly serious. "Evil is generally misdirected energy, or misunderstood motives, or lack of healthy, happy occupation." Mayor Jones rose from his chair. "I suppose you want me to go over and explain to the judge?" he asked as he got into his coat. "But that will not be necessary. I'll telephone over. What I am going to do is take up the matter of your suggestions with the city council. They are in session now. I shall suggest a mass meeting of the people, and see if we cannot help Betty Morgan out in her ambitious enterprise." Mrs. Jones caught her boy's hand and pressed it to her cheek. "Tom," she cried, "you are the dearest boy a mother ever had, even if you are mayor. You can depend on the Relief Society to do all it can to help out." "Help out," the Mayor exclaimed warmly. "You are the whole thing. What you women have been doing for yourselves has been the inspiration of this town. And now you have started an enterprise that is going to mean more for North Hammond than anything we have ever attempted. Why shouldn't this town have a symphony orchestra, and a grand opera company, and a band that would be the pride of the state? A juvenile band is the beginning. And stranger things than these have grown from smaller beginnings. It will all take time, but it is not impossible. You need the town behind you, and I think I can promise it."
And the mayor was right. North Hammond got behind the enterprise the grandmothers had launched, and gave it a boost that sent it rolling. Cornets, cellos, violins, flutes, made their initial wailings and screechings all over town. And when the first concert was given, the hall wouldn't hold the throng of eager, proud, parents and citizens. But the proudest moment of all to the grandmothers was when the mayor, at the close of the concert, arose and addressed the audience: "Ladies and gentlemen," he proclaimed with enthusiasm, "whatever keeps the soul part of us alive is vastly worth while. Long have the Relief Society relieved temporal wants and administered comfort, both spiritual and physical. But it remained for the grandmothers, who comprise the major part of the Relief Society of North Hammond, to do more than that. At an age when most people quit growing and advancing, they have suddenly shown that age is no bar to learning.
"They have not only done this for themselves, but they have started others, the young people, to develop the soul part of themselves, and at the same time give us the opportunity to get acquainted with the rich music the masters have composed, music that has been a closed avenue of delight to North Hammond till now.
"Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a toast: 'The Grandmothers of North Hammond, the grandest grandmothers the world ever knew.'" And the toast was cheered to the echo.
THE PEASANT MOTHER.
By Maud Baggarly.
Woman of the Field, whose breasts hath fed Thy numerous young, While thy uncreamed, sinewy hands (Not thy mute tongue) Have paeans sung!
Since labour is itself a song of praise And a reproach through endless days To pale lily-fingered ease!
Thou art the seedtime and the harvest of the Earth! For in thee is the World renewed and given birth.
Home Science Department.
Juliette A. Hyde.
There are many links to keep bright and strong in the chain of life, if one is to preserve both health and happiness. One that we are far too apt to forget in our complex modern civilisation, though we bear a very close relation to it, is the link which binds us to the soil. I have come to believe that no person can be wholly sane and hale who does not, from time to time, handle a spade and hoe. Unless we get back close to the heart of the earth, and watch green things grow up from the very soil from which we came, and to which we return again, we shall never quite see that the earth is "good," as God saw it when he first created it for man. There is a side of one's nature lost, unless we plunge our hands into the earth on which we live, and come to understand nature at first hand. Unless we cover up seeds and bulbs, and set out tiny green shoots, having an interest in watching things develop and grow, in the season thereof, we miss nature's freshest greetings. If it is but a window-box of soil, and a few small plants that we cultivate, there is health of body and sanity of mind to be gained by keeping up one's natural relation to earth. If we are irritable and cross, and wish to forget our cares and become rested and free from some particular worry which seems almost to overpower us, let us go out into the garden, select a small space, spade and rake, and plant a few choice vegetables or flower seeds. Then each day, watch them grow and develop. In doing this, we will overcome the dangerous and useless habit of worry; and it will create in us a greater interest in life itself. It will broaden our knowledge of plant life, and give us a keener appreciation for the best things in the days as they come and go. Whoever heard of a woman having nervous prostration who worked daily in a flower garden? Monotony and "grind" steal much of our happiness. It is an old delusion that life is all pain and grief. We find joy in all of life, if we search for it.
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES.
It is always best to be exceedingly suspicious of any good cuts of pieces of meat which are marked down to an unusually low price. It seldom pays to risk an attack of ptomaine poisoning for the sake of saving a few cents. The pluck of all animals—the kidney, liver, tongue, and heart—should be purchased only after careful inspection. If the liver has any dark spots in it, it is not healthy food to eat. It should be bright and free from blemishes. Dark beef liver will be found strongly flavoured and tough. The kidneys, also, if diseased, will contain spots and look cloudy.
Poultry.—In selecting poultry, choose the birds whose eyes are full and bright. The joints must not be stiff nor flabby; the skin should be thin and tender, so that it may be easily torn with a pin, the breast and bone pliable and yielding easily to pressure, the feet soft and moist. The neck, crop, and abdomen show the first signs of decomposition in any kind of fowl.
Vegetables.—Never buy cucumbers, turnips, nor carrots which are not firm to the touch, nor lettuce which shows any trace of rusty red look, as this denotes long keeping. String-beans should not have a faded look or any limpness when broken, nor should peas have any other than crisp and plump pods.
Green Corn.—In green corn the ferment present begins immediately to destroy the contained sugar, after it is pulled, and it loses its sweetness and becomes a dead vegetable, and it cannot be freshened by soaking in cold water, as some housewives seem to think.
The Agricultural College especially recommends the ox-heart carrot for all-around use. The carrot is very rich in iron.
Rhubarb or Pieplant.—The delicious and cleansing qualities of this earliest of spring fruits and tonics is universally acknowledged. But many fail to grow it, and most cooks spoil it in preparing it. When it is young, brittle and pink skinned, it should not be stripped, as the skin not only adds a delicate colouring, but gives its own valuable toning qualities. After the stalks get old enough to peel, they have lost their first value and deliciousness. Rhubarb should be bottled for winter use while young and succulent.
To Cook Rhubarb.—Cut in inch pieces, after washing it well, put it in a tightly closed saucepan with a cup of sugar to one pound of fruit. Put no water with it—not a spoonful—and set it over a slow heat for a moment, then boil up five minutes. If young and tender it will cook in that time, or less. Don't over-cook. If the stalks are tender at the base and tougher above, cut off the tender bits and set them aside. Cook separately, or lay them on top of the tougher pieces in the saucepan, so they do not get the direct heat of the fire. Some people steam rhubarb. It is delicious placed in a glass casserole—always without water and baked for ten minutes in the oven. The stringy, sloppy, sharply acid mass served on some tables is a culinary disgrace.
A Prince of Ur.
By Homespun.
As Abram reached the small door which led from his tower into the courtyard, he heard a sudden pounding upon his door. He listened intently and caught the distinct whistle which was the accepted signal. Instantly he undid the bars. It was Javanu.
"My master, the servants and slaves of this palace have refused to go out into the groves for this night's rendezvous. Most of them have fled to the Ziggurat, and this palace is near deserted even of soldiers."
"And where is Lot?"
"He hath gone to draw the shepherd dukes and their soldiery into the confines of the Ziggurat to be ready for thy coming."
"And Mardan?"
"Alas, none know where the arch-traitor hath fled. But all is confusion in these walls. Dost know that Azzi-jaami hath perished by the wiles of his wicked wife? He lies silent at the foot of his own throne."
"And the women?"
"Iscah hath fled none know whither. Nahor hath taken the brides Milcah and Irit, who is to wed Lot this day or next, if life is left to any of us. Master, we perish if thou dost not come forth and bind up our scattered forces. Why not flee at once—"
"Am I not here on my honour? And see you yon platoon of silent Nubian soldiers in that distant gateway? Nimrod would not leave my life to chance escape, be sure of that. My father's slaves and retainers may depart, for they have been left to gradual mutiny under the traitor Mardan, these ten years, while we all were distant far from here. But Nimrod knows the worth of my life."
"What shall we do?"
"Tell me, where is Sarai?"
"She is within her own gardens, master, for not long since I saw her through the lattice moving in her porches."
A confusion of voices without the portal caused the two whisperers to listen intently.
"Creep quietly," hissed a voice outside. "Bring thy fellows, and be sure they have the bandages and scarfs to muffle her cries."
"And her damsels?"
"Who stays for shrieking damsels? This place is now in mine own charge. Post thy men at convenient places. Line the gateways. Heed not the cry or call of anyone save only when thou hearest mine own voice."
It was the guarded voice of Mardan, speaking to a company of Assyrian soldiers, fresh from Nimrod's armies. Javanu caught the sleeve of Abram and quivered with both wrath and apprehension. The voices died away as the soldiers crept silently forward to steal into the women's quarters.
Even as they stood, muffled beating on the small gate-panels caused Abram to thrust his ear down to the latch. A soft sound of sobbing caught his ear. Like a flash he threw open the door and as he undid its fastenings the princess Sarai caught his hands and he drew her swiftly within.
"Javanu, quick! Run up for Eliezer. He is in the tower observatory. Bring him with thee. On the second terrace, undo the door of the inner room—bring down the weapons. Go quickly."
The figure beside him was breathing in great gasps of fear or excitement.
"Sarai, tell me—"
She felt the throbbing intensity of his tone, and paralysed with fear as she was, her pulses flew like quicksilver in her veins. She had never heard that tone in Abram's voice in all her life before. And though the destruction of the world was just before them, Sarai was swinging in space with only that sound between her and oblivion. She bowed her face on her hands.
The motion caught the instant attention of the prince, and he drew slightly away from her present nearness. In the faint light he could see the bowed attitude of the lovely presence beside him.
Was it fear—or anxiety for Mardan—did she know of that vile wretch's treachery?
"Thou hast come—my princess—"
"The palace is deserted. Mine own serving-maidens only remain. Just now, they bade me flee to thee for direction and help for all this stricken household."
"Camest thou only for help?"
His great form shook from turbaned head to sandalled feet with the violence of his tempestuous emotions, but he ventured not to touch even the sleeve of her abaya.
"The very universe is sinking with fear about us, my lord and I—"
"Yes, and thou?"
His own soul was caught up on the high mountain of human desire and though the stars halted in their course, he would know the truth. Life without Sarai from this moment was unthinkable. Her presence was wine—her breath exhaled a subtle incense which overpowered men of all degree. And he—why he had dreamed of this moment all of his mature life. He would hold the very sun in space till she had spoken her will in his ear.
"Mardan"—she whispered affrightedly, "he hath turned traitor—he hath corrupted half the palace and his minions are filling every hall and court—save only mine own. I fear for his next move."
"Yes—my princess—yes—"
"The Petesi is not here—we—are alone—we women—hast thou heard me, lord Abram?"
"I hear thee—princess—and need thee as the sun needs the bounteous earth—to blossom and to bring forth. I suffer in my soul—just to see thee and—"
With a low cry Sarai was on his bosom, clinging to his pillared neck with wild abandon. Her prince—her lord—she was not deceived—this was life—not death—and transportation to the realms of light!
Whether it were a moment or an eternity, they clung to each other while the river of life swept them out into the eternal channel of oneness with God and creation.
The rush of footsteps down the tower stairs was no less startling to their absorption than was the sudden clanging of swords without and the screams and piteous cries of damsels who were struggling with the ruffians in the outer courtyard.
"Quick, my princess. Up the stairs. On the upper terrace, thou canst bolt the door behind thee in my tower room. No one will find thee there. When the noise subsides—dost heed me—my beloved—come thou down, gather thy serving women and good Javanu will lead thee and thine to the rendezvous without the gates of the city. Dost hear and heed!"
For the distracted girl was weeping on his breast, and he had to catch her arms and draw them to her side—
"Nay—princess—queen—where is thy courage—"
Instantly, she sprang from his grasp—and with but a little sobbing smile at him she flew up the stairs, whispering bravely over her shoulder as she ran—
"Fear not for me, my lord. I have thy love—I shall not forget thy wise directions—I shall be safe without the walls!"
Fearing lest the soldiers should break his door and thus further endanger Sarai, the prince opened it a little, holding his toe in the crack and from this vantage point he seized a weapon from Eliezer, and then flinging wide the door he laid upon the congested mass of struggling soldiery with such fierceness that after ten minutes' charge they fell, blocking the passageway with the dead bodies which heaped up into a huge protecting mound.
"Now, shut and bar the door when I go without. Javanu—dost hear?" Abram spoke in his own tongue, lest the Assyrian soldiers hear his words. "Eliezer and I shall stay without. But thou must guard the treasures of this sanctuary."
Bewildered and off their guard with the onrush of Abram's powerful sword thrusts, as he and Eliezer flung themselves headlong without the doorway, the disorderly mass scarce knew whom they were striking or why. Abram drew farther and farther from his own gateway. Eliezer at once perceived his master's strategy, and swept beside him till they had drawn the soldiers far away from the tower entrance.
"I shall give myself up, Eliezer," he panted, "I shall be quite as safe in the Ziggurat as here, and our treasure will be safer if I am gone."
The fighting, struggling mass worked gradually down to the outer courtyard. Abram allowed them to take his sword.
Nimrod sat restless upon his newly-erected golden throne, in the pillared and lofty lower halls of the Ziggurat of Ur. He had been worshipped with abject submission and in some cases, genuine admiration, by the small army of priests who dwelt in the colleges and Temple courts. They had washed the feet of their high priest with perfumes of Elam, they had anointed his head with ointments of precious Babylonian unguents. They had opened their most sacred stores of incense wherewith to burn in the sacred vessels before himself, as the living embodiment of all their gods to which in his absence they bowed down with slavish devotion. The few were in transports of joy at his presence from very exaltation of religious frenzy—the many—ah the worldly wise hypocrites—amongst the ungodly these were filled with selfish delight that this formal visit of their god-ruler would fasten forever their priestly yoke upon the burdened shoulders of the "stinking multitude," in the province and city of Ur.
The great hall where Nimrod sat that evening before the rigorous Sabbath, was richly decorated with sculptured dados, the bas-reliefs painted in brilliant colours. There were ivory and golden chairs, tables and divans; the bases of bronze, gold, silver, and alabaster held riotous blooms. The walls were tiled and emblazoned with all the cunning arts and glowing richness possible to Assyrian or Semitic invention. Here and there the walls were hung and the couches were covered with such costly tapestries that even Nimrod glanced with sensuous delight upon their woven glories. The figures of men, of flowers and of animals, especially the royal lions of Assyria, were boldly outlined or delicately limned in the exquisite textures of the curtains around the walls, the coverings of the couches and the rugs piled under his feet.
"Must have cost these rapacious priests a full four millions sesterces"—he muttered in his heavy curling beard, as he cast his eyes about him while the slaves of the temple were lighting up the myriads of lamps which stood about in their golden bowls high up on their covered and twisted alabaster and silver pedestals.
"Teak wood must be common in Ur," he said aloud to an attendant who was facing him as he turned to view the lovely carved teak-wood taborets which were scattered at intervals side by side with the inlaid ivory couches and chairs.
Soldier, hunter, and ruffian though he was, he loved beauty and was a liberal patron of the arts.
"Who hath fashioned all these finely wrought pieces?" he asked of his vizier, in the Assyrian tongue, his Rab-saki.
"The master artist, Azzi-jaami."
"Who is Azzi-jaami?"
"He is the master designer of your servant Terah, the Petesi of this great city."
"Ah, I remember. His daughters are to be offered on the sacred altar of dedication at midnight, so?"
"The lord of the earth hath spoken it."
The thought recalled at once the cause of his brutal restlessness.
"Where are my sorcerers? Where is Mardan? He hath promised to bring me the princess Sarai. Why dare he tarry?"
Instantly the vizier clapped his hands, for he saw the gathering storm on his master's brows, and he must avert the explosion at any cost.
"See, thou lord of the earth, thy slaves are approaching."
Instantly a long procession of slaves, bearing woven silver-threaded baskets of ripe dates, others with richly wrought golden baskets of figs, or of pomegranates, of apples and of luscious grapes, all arranged with artistic care upon their gleaming gold or silver salvers and baskets approached Nimrod.
"Behold, my master"—and the eyes of Nimrod were turned to see the very picture of what was taking place emblazoned in gold artistry on the lofty friezes of the royal audience hall. Nimrod was delighted.
"Who is this fellow, Azzi-jaami? Shall not Nimrod retain him as court artificer?"
"The honour would be great to a hireling"—whispered the jealous vizier. The whims of kings were very uncertain moorings for men.
"Where is Mardan!" roared the monarch, diverted but for a moment by the wiles of his chief Rab-saki.
(TO BE CONTINUED.)
Notes from the Field.
By the General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman.
RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE CONFERENCE FOR 1916.
The Relief Society stake conferences appointed for May, June, and July will be held in connection with the stake quarterly conferences, while those appointed for November will be held independently.
Conference Dates.
May 6th and 7th — South Sanpete, Curlew, Summit, Taylor, San Louis, Boise, St. Johns. May 13th and 14th — Wayne, Emery, Millard, Juab, Alberta, Snowflake. May 20th and 21st — Young, Blackfoot, Bannock, Teton, Bingham, Malad, Maricopa. May 27th and 28th — Portneuf, St. Joseph, Big Horn, Pocatello, Shelley, Panguitch, Uintah. June 3rd and 4th — Kanab, Rigby, Morgan, San Juan, Oneida. June 17th and 18th — St. George, No. Sanpete, Fremont, Tooele, Union, Moapa, Star Valley. June 24th and 25th — Duchesne, Parowan, Sevier, Deseret, Bear Lake. July 22nd and 23rd — Benson, Beaver, Hyrum, Raft River. July 29th and 30th — Wasatch, Woodruff, Yellowstone, Cassia.
November. (Dates to be arranged later.) Alpine, Bear River, Box Elder, Cache, Carbon, Cottonwood, Davis, Ensign, Granite, Jordan, Liberty, Nebo, No. Davis, No. Weber, Ogden, Pioneer, Salt Lake, Summit, Utah, Weber.
PROGRAMME. For stakes holding conferences in connection with quarterly conferences.
First Session. Officers' meeting. Saturday, 4:30 p. m. Report by stake president. Lesson work. Discussion led by member of General Board.
Second Session. Officers' meeting. Sunday, 9:00 to 10:30 a. m. Ward problems by ward presidents. Relief Society Activities—General Board representatives.
Third Session. Public Session, Sunday, 10:30 a. m. Conjoint meeting of Relief Society and Primary Association. Time to be divided between the two organisations, under the direction of the stake authorities.
ITEMS FROM ANNUAL REPORT OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
That the Relief Society is growing, and is extending its already broad scope of work, will be shown from the following figures, taken from the Secretary's Annual Report for 1915:
Paid for charitable purposes $56,967.31 Days spent with the sick 22,797 Special visits to sick 78,500 Families helped 6,516 Bodies prepared for burial 2,054 Burial clothing prepared 1,646 Number of visits by Stake Officers 4,722 Number of days spent in Temple work 16,889 Assistance to missionaries $2,711.59 Funds raised from special work 13,311.74
STATISTICAL REPORT (INCLUDING MISSIONS.)
Membership January 1, 1915: Officers 5,245 Teachers 11,964 Members 20,703 Total 37,912
Admitted to membership during year 7,164 Removed or resigned 3,316 Died 486
Membership December 31, 1915: Officers 5,971 Teachers 12,386 Members 22,917 Total (or present membership) 41,274
Number of meetings held 33,020 Average attendance 13,197 Number of Relief Society organisations 1,004 Number of magazines taken 8,409 Number of books in local libraries 5,479
The following is the Relief Society membership as reported from the missions:
Mission
Officers
Teachers
Members
Total
California
58
63
237
358
Central States
43
-
272
315
Eastern States
18
-
-
70
Hawaiian
-
-
-
29
Northern States
77
-
-
269
Northwestern States
52
-
-
178
Southern States
55
-
-
182
European
652
-
3,138
2,146
Total
960
-
-
4,335
More detailed information is given in the following tables:
CALIFORNIA MISSION.
Name of Branch Members Name of Branch Members Binghampton, Arizona 36 San Pedro, California 8 Douglas, Arizona 30 San Francisco, California 11 Gridley, California 59 San Bernardino, California 10 Los Angeles, California 47 St. David, Arizona 28 Long Beach, California 20 San Diego, California 26 Liberty, California 26 Whitewater, Arizona 17 Miramonte, Arizona 16 Oakland, California 22 Pomerene, Arizona 32 Total 388
CENTRAL STATES MISSION.
Name of Branch Members Name of Branch Members Independence, Mo 18 Iowye, Texas 21 Sharon 10 St. Louis, Mo 17 Kansas City, Mo 20 Three additional branches 36 Todd, Texas 10 Enoch 27 Kelsey, Texas 95 Total 254
EASTERN STATES MISSION.
Name of Branch Members Name of Branch Members Brooklyn, N. Y 16 Philadelphia, Pa 17 Baltimore, Md 15 Toronto, Canada 10 Lynn, Mass 12 Total 70
HAWAIIAN MISSION.
Members 29 Branches 828
NORTHERN STATES MISSION.
Name of Branch Members Name of Branch Members Logan Square, Chicago 32 Indianapolis, Indiana 16 Roseland, Chicago 21 Muncie, Indiana 10 University, Chicago 25 Evansville, Ill 16 Detroit, Michigan 11 Winnipeg, Canada 22 Grand Rapids, Michigan 6 Minneapolis, Minn 18 Flint, Michigan 13 St. Paul, Minn 11 Springfield, Ill 15 Milwaukee, Wis 25 Bloomington, Ill 15 Peoria, Ill 13 Total 269
NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION.
Name of Branch Members Name of Branch Members Lents, Oregon 17 Tacoma, Wash 15 Portland, Oregon 39 Butte, Montana 25 Pendleton, Oregon 12 Helena, Montana 8 Anaconda, Montana 26 Valier, Montana 6 Spokane, Washington 14 Seattle, Wash 16 Total 178
SOUTHERN STATES MISSION.
Name of Branch Members Name of Branch Members Cincinnati, Ohio 13 Jacksonville, Fla 36 Dayton, Ohio 6 Memphis, Tenn 14 Darburn, Miss 26 Chattanooga, Tenn 8 Quitman, Miss 6 Mount Airy, N. C 9 Atlanta, Ga 10 Gilreath, N. C 9 Buchanan, Ga 16 Columbia, S. C 12 Greenville, S. C 20 Gaffney, S. C 17 Total 182
EUROPEAN MISSION.
(British Conferences.)
Name of Branch Members Name of Branch Members Birmingham 84 Newcastle 75 Hull 63 Norwich 24 Irish 7 Nottingham 92 Leeds 134 Scottish 32 Liverpool 88 Sheffield 9 London 61 Manchester 62 Total 731
(Continental Conferences.)
Netherlands 172 Swedish 256 Scandinavian 460 Swiss and German 527
European Mission Total 2,146
Magazines.
As there was such a slight response to our appeal last month, for the January, February, and March, 1916, numbers of the Magazine, we again announce our desire to purchase about 200 of each of these numbers at the rate of 10 cents per copy.
In Memoriam.
Mrs. Charlotte Ellen Eyre Ellsworth, Secretary of the Woodruff Stake Relief Society, passed away on February 4, 1916. Mrs. Ellsworth was born November 21, 1876 at Greenville, Utah, and was married in 1897 to George A. Ellsworth of Payson. In 1902, the family moved to Lyman, Wyoming, where they have since resided. Mrs. Ellsworth was a woman of rare virtues, and exceptional gifts. She was a willing and helpful worker in the community in which she lived, and was greatly beloved by all who knew her. During her whole life, she was actively identified with the various auxiliary organisations of the Church, and on May 7, 1911, she was appointed Secretary of the Woodruff Stake, a position she filled with credit and honour.
Goodbye, California Congress, Goodbye.
This office is in receipt of a letter from Mr. James A. Barr, Director of Congresses in the Panama-Pacific Exposition, which is in the nature of an unofficial goodbye. There is enclosed in the letter some final facts concerning the Congress program. Mr. Barr himself embodied the progressiveness, the courtesy, the supreme efficiency, and the wise leadership which made of the mammoth California undertaking a marvel of perfected organisation. He was like the electric current which ran through every artery of the great exposition—silent in service, instant in action, and brilliant in effulgence. Such men will be utilised in the eternities.
Mr. Barr's letter reads: "The Congress program was especially notable because of the extraordinary participation by women. Of the 928 Congresses, Conferences and Conventions held under the auspices of the Exposition, 114 were composed entirely of women. These many gatherings showed the tremendous progress made by women during the recent years and especially during the eleven years since the St. Louis Exposition."
We learn from the circular the following: "Seldom a day passed without its convention, while as many as forty conventions were in session on the same day. The attendance ranged from twenty-five to fifteen thousand. There was an average of ten convention sessions daily for the 288 days of the Exposition period. The 928 gatherings held in or near San Francisco were in session for a total of 2,927 days, representing a period of eight years. It is estimated that the 5,854 half-day sessions were attended by a total of 1,756,000 people.
Following summary shows the diversity of interests in the gatherings:
Agricultural and Horticultural 36 Business and Commercial 75 Educational 172 Genealogical 28 Governmental and Civic 69 Historical and Literary 10 Industrial 28 Labour 21 Musical 9 Press 10 Religious 79 Scientific 56 Social Service 56
Crocheted Yoke.
Isabel Whitney Sears.
Wouldn't you like to know how to fashion the charming yoke here pictured? Then follow directions carefully:
Stitches Used. Chain stitch (ch.): Catch cotton with hook, making a loop, draw cotton with the hook through this loop which makes the first stitch. Repeat, draw through as many loops as wanted, each loop is termed a chain stitch.
Slip stitch (sl. st.): Put hook through the work; thread over the work, draw it through the stitch on the hook.
Single crochet (s. c.): Having stitch on hook; put hook through work, and draw thread through, making two stitches on hook, thread over hook and draw through both stitches.
Treble crochet (t. c.): Having stitch on hook, put thread over hook, put hook through work and draw thread through, making three stitches on hook, put thread over hook, draw through two stitches, put thread over hook, and draw through the two remaining stitches.
Chain 47. First row: turn and put hook into 7th st. with s. c., chain 4 skip 3 ch. put hook in 4th st. with s. c. to end of chain, making 11 loops.
Second row: chain 6 turn, fasten into first loop with s. c., ch. 4 fasten into next loop with s. c., continue to end of row.
Third row: ch. 6 turn, make five loops, ch. 4, 7 t. c. into next loop, pull loop of last t. c. through first one so as to puff up, then ch. 4 fasten into next loop with s. c., continue to end of row.
Fourth row: ch. 6 turn, fasten into first loop with s. c., ch. 4 fasten into next loop until you have 4 loops, ch. 4, 7 t. c. into next loop, pull loop of last t. c. through first one so as to puff up, ch, 2, 7 t. c. into next loop, pull loop of last t. c. through first one so as to puff up, ch. 4 and make loops to end of row.
Fifth row: ch. 6 turn, fasten into first loop with s. c., ch. 4 fasten into each loop until you have 5 loops, ch. 4, 7 t. c. into next loop, pull loop of last t. c. through first one so as to puff up, ch. 4 fasten into next loop with s. c. to end.
Sixth row: ch. 6 turn and make five rows of loops.
Eleventh row: ch. 6 turn, fasten into first loop with s. c., ch. 4 and make 2 more loops, ch. 4, 7 t. c. into next loop, pull loop of last t. c. through first one so as to puff up, make 3 loops of 4 ch., ch. 4, 7 t. c. into next loop, pull loop of last t. c. through first one so as to puff up, ch. 4 and make loops to end of row.
Twelfth row: ch. 6, turn, fasten into first loop with s. c., ch. 4 fasten into next loop with s. c., ch. 4, 7 t. c. into next loop, pull loop of last t. c. through first one so as to puff up, ch. 2, 7 t. c. into next loop, pull loop of last t. c. through first one so as to puff up, ch. 4, fasten into next loop with s. c., ch. 4, fasten into next loop with s. c., ch. 4, 7 t. c. into next loop, pull loop of last t. c. through first one so as to puff up, ch. 2, 7 t. c. into next loop, pull loop of last t. c. through first one so as to puff up, ch. 4, fasten into next loop to end of row.
Thirteenth row: ch. 6, turn, fasten into first loop with s. c., ch. 4, fasten into next loop with s. c., ch. 4, fasten into next loop with s. c., ch. 4, 7 t. c. into next loop, pull loop of last t. c. through first one so as to puff up, ch. 4, fasten into next loop with s. c., ch. 4 fasten into next loop, ch. 4, fasten into next loop, ch. 4, fasten into next loop, ch. 4, 7 t. c. into next loop, pull loop of last t. c. through first one so as to puff up, ch. 4, fasten into next loop with s. c., ch. 4, fasten into next loop, ch. 4, fasten into next loop.
Repeat until you have 15 rows of puffs, then make two rows of plain loops. This finishes the front.
For shoulder: ch. 6, turn and fasten into first loop on upper side of front with s. c., beginning with two puffs on first row.
Continue until you have 11 rows of puffs, then make two rows of plain loops. This finishes the shoulder.
For back: ch. 6, turn, fasten into first loop on inside of shoulder, beginning with one puff, continue until you have 13 rows of puffs, then make 2 rows of plain loops. This finishes back.
For shoulder: ch. 6, turn, fasten into first loop on upper side of back beginning with two puffs, make 9 rows of puffs, the last row catch each loop to the front. This finishes the yoke.
For outer edge of yoke: 3 t. c. into loop, ch, 2, 3 t. c. into same loop, fasten with s. c. into next loop, 3 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 3 t. c. into same loop, fasten with s. c. into next loop. Continue all round outer edge.
For inner edge make beading by making 2 t. c. into first loop, ch. 2, 2 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 2 t. c. into next loop to place of beginning, fasten with sl. st.
Second row: 4 t. c. into 2 ch., ch. 2, 4 t. c. into same 2 ch., 1 s. c. into next 2 ch., 4 t. c. into next, 2 ch., ch. 2, 4 t. c. into same, 1 s. c. into next 2 ch. Continue to end and fasten to beginning with sl. st.
Use No. 50 Royal Society Cotton and No. 14 hook. It will take two balls of cotton for this pattern.
THE FLOWERS' RESURRECTION.
Hazel Washburn.
The herald of the spring again comes forth To call the flowers sleeping deep in earth. And as each hears the call, Slips off its russet shroud, Bursts through the gripping bonds of coffin and of clod, Bedecks itself in nature's bright array, And hastens to that fragrant resurrection day.
If spring is nature's resurrection day, And God doth work on natural principles, they say, Then sometime, somewhere, the immortal souls of men Shall burst the bonds of death and rise from dust again, And haste to meet their loved ones, Bedecked in white array, And sing their Maker's praises for a resurrection day.
This lesson then kind Nature taught to me— God works his wonders in simplicity. And He who hears the linnet's song or notes the sparrow's fall, Who calls the flowers forth, can never fail to call My loved ones sleeping 'neath the cold, dark sod, Back to greener pastures, the kingdom of their God.
KIRKLAND, SAN JUAN CO., NEW MEXICO.
Query Box.
Hazel Love Dunford.
The question has been asked, "How can children best be taught not to be wasteful?"—Mrs. E. C., Salt Lake City.
When children are very small they should be taught not to leave food on their plates if they do not want it, do not force them to eat it, but see that the next meal brings the left-over food before them. If one is persistent in this particular, soon the child will learn to judge just the exact amount that will be eaten. A child should be taught to take care of his toys and not be wasteful with them. Arrange to have a place for his playthings and then require him to put his many things in order. There is no better way to teach this important thing than by example.
Will you please tell me what the "citrus fruits" are and name some of them?—L. M. T., Ephraim, Utah.
These fruits belong to the same family as the citron and are especially useful in the diet. In the group there is the pomelo or grapefruit, the orange, lemon, lime and kumquats.
Will you kindly send me full information of how to knit a stocking size 9?—Subscriber.
The number of stitches depends on the yarn used. For Spanish yarn 24 stitches on each of three needles is sufficient. Knit until stocking is long enough to reach the calf of the leg, ribbing a few inches at the top if desired, and making one seam stitch all the way down. Knit to three stitches from seam, narrow, knit one, seam, knit one, narrow, knit five rounds, narrow as before, knit five rounds, narrow, knit four rounds, narrow knit four rounds, narrow. Knit four inches.
For the heel: Count stitches all around, put half on same needle as seam stitch, with seam stitch exactly in centre. Knit once across needle, turn, knit across with seam stitch for the inside, alternate until a straight piece three inches long has been made.
To turn the heel: 1st method, knit to three stitches from seam, narrow, seam, knit one, narrow, knit one, turn. Knit to first narrowing, narrow again, taking together the two stitches which were wider apart than the rest. Knit one, turn, knit to two wide apart stitches, and then knit together; repeat until you are knitting the entire row.
2nd method, knit to about five stitches past centre, narrow, knit one, turn. Knit to five past centre, narrow, turn. Repeat until only the 11 centre stitches are left. When knitting with only two needles always use the seam stitch on the inside to make it match the rest. The seam stitch in the leg and heel is for convenience in marking the centre and may be omitted if desired.
Toe—take off the heel: Pick up the stitches along the edge of the heel, knitting each one as it is picked up. Rearrange stitches on needle so that the middle stitch of one needle is half way around from middle stitch of heel. On each side of this stitch put one-sixth of the total stitches that were on a round before the heel was started, leaving the remainder equally distributed between the other two needles. On each row knitted, narrow on the two back needles, four stitches from the front needle or needle on top of the foot and continue narrowing until all needles have same number of stitches. Knit until foot is about 6½ inches long.
To narrow the toe, narrow once on each end of each needle, four stitches from end; knit four rounds. Repeat four times. Narrow three stitches from end and three rounds between, repeating three times; two stitches from end and two rounds between, twice. Then narrow one stitch from end, on every round until only three stitches are left on each needle. Slip all stitches on two needles as evenly divided as possible. The two needles will then lie flat side by side. Knit two stitches (one from each needle) together, all the way across, all the time slipping the first stitch made in this way over the second, so that at the last you have only one stitch left. Pull the end of the yarn through this stitch, and with a darning needle sew the yarn firmly down into the goods.
Ellen Brentnor.
It is perfectly astonishing to me, that some parents, teachers and periodicals, make the claim that it is old-fashioned and should be done away with, for children to say "Yes Sir!" "Yes Ma'am!" "No sir!" "No Ma'am!" (The latter pronounced as Madam, leaving the "d" out.) Can it be called a fashion at all? Is it not one of the most important civilities in life, which all children should observe, and which should continue in use as long as the world stands? What will more quickly, and effectually, make heathens of our children, and destroy in them proper respect for all grown people, than if they are allowed to answer parents, white-haired grandparents, the Bishop, the Governor with—"What!" "Huh!" "Yep!" "Nope!" "You bet!" "I did not!" "Now you're whistlin'!" etc., et. It gives me a shudder of horror and apprehension.
Anxious, Mesa, Arizona.
From early infancy children should be taught to be polite and courteous, and this can be taught in no better way than in requiring them to speak properly to their elders. It is not always necessary that they say, "Yes Ma'am," and "No Sir," but by all means they should be taught to say something besides "Yes," and "No," and their equivalents. "Yes, Mother," "No, Lady," or "What, Sir," "Yes, Brother Jones," etc. These little civilities once thoroughly learned in youth will be of benefit to a child all his life, and is always a mark of good breeding.
Current Topics.
By James H. Anderson.
China is again a republic, the attempt to re-establish the monarchy having failed.
Disarming of merchant vessels for defensive purposes, proposed by the United States, has been rejected by the European nations, as a new international arrangement.
The European war fronts, except the Russian advance in the Caucasus, are practically the same as a month ago. There has been fierce fighting, but few changes of position.
Economy in material in women's dress is urged by the government in Germany. In this part of the world, the limit of economy at least in quantity appears to have been reached.
German submarines continue to sink unarmed passenger ships, notwithstanding assurances from Germany that this policy would be abandoned. The international irritation against Germany consequently is increasing.
Mormon colonies in Mexico, which have been subjected to many impositions in the way of having property confiscated by rebels and bandits, particularly by those under the leadership of Francisco Villa, have been relieved from this trouble by the advance of the American punitive expedition into Northern Mexico.
Ogden City, Utah, had a large portion of its residence district flooded during several days in March, owing to the great rush of water from Ogden Canyon, and the blocking of the stream. Comparatively little damage was done.
Czar Nicholas of Russia addressed the Russian national Duma on Washington's birthday—the first occasion of the kind in Slavonic history. The world moves toward greater freedom for the masses of humankind, even in Russia, this action being a marked concession in that line.
Portugal seized thirty-six German and Austrian ships in Portuguese harbours on Feb. 23, and Germany soon after declared war on that nation. The same day, Italy seized thirty-four German ships in Italian waters, but no declaration of war by Germany has come thus far for Italy.
Pneumonia causes ten percent of the deaths in the United States, or more than any other disease, is the statement in a recently issued government report, which also says that half the cases of pneumonia are easily prevented by ordinary care on the part of the individual.
Verdun, in France, has been the scene this year of the greatest battle in history. Heavy fighting continued practically without intermission for more than six weeks from the middle of February, with the Teutonic forces of hundreds of thousands of men thrown against the French positions still unable to gain their purpose—an open road to Paris.
Three fires in the United States in March caused immense damage. At Nashville, Tenn., 600 houses were burned, 5,000 people rendered homeless, and $1,500,000 in property destroyed; at Augusta, Ga., 600 houses, 3,000 homeless, and $5,000,000 property loss was registered; at Paris, Texas, 2,000 houses, 8,000 homeless, some fatalities, and $10,000,000 property loss is the record.
Congressman Joseph Howell, after years of persistent effort, has succeeded in having the Utah Indian war veterans of 1865-6 recognised by the government as entitled to pensions for regular service performed and Senator Reed Smoot has been successful in having the qualifying term of service reduced from ninety days to thirty days.
One-story school buildings, constructed in a hollow square with playground in the centre, and all classrooms opening outdoors, is the latest recommendation of sanitationists in schoolroom architecture. The new development certainly has an advantage over the old in the ventilation, light, cleanliness, and safety provided.
Congress has practically agreed on a regular army of 140,000 men and a reserve force of 425,000 men, as a basis of the United States military arm in time of peace. This is an increase of about 700 per cent in the strength of the army as provided by law from the conditions of less than a year ago.
Theodore Roosevelt, on his return to the United States, prefers to discuss the guachara, a new nut-eating bird which he has discovered, rather than to talk politics. He says he will not engage in a scramble for the nomination for the presidency; but nevertheless he is far from being an unlikely candidate on the Republican ticket to be named in June. The other mentioned candidates most probable are Elihu Root and Justice Hughes, against President Wilson on the Democratic ticket.
Mexican affairs are growing more vexatious with each month's development. Francisco Villa, the Mexican general, rebel, and bandit, made a raid on Columbus, N. M., with the purpose of provoking American intervention in Mexican affairs, and now a column of about 5,000 United States troops has pursued him about 250 miles into Mexico. The Carranza government of our southern neighbour gives effusive assurance of assistance to the American punitive expedition, but the aid rendered amounts to little, actually, and there is a strong prospect that Villa will find refuge in the almost inaccessible Sierra Madre canyons.
Russia is nearing both the Mediterranean Sea and the Indian Ocean, since the armies of the Grand Duke Nicholas captured the Turkish fortress of Erzerum. From this point one column of troops has advanced to the vicinity of Sivas, less than 200 miles north of Alexandretta, the Mediterranean Turkish port occupied by British and French forces. A second column has pushed forward from the Lake Van region to the valley of the Western Tigris south of Bitlis, and is less than 300 miles from Alexandretta. A third column from the Lake Urumiah district has pierced the passes of the Diyala, west of Kermanshah, and within 75 miles of Bagdad. A fourth column has made its way southward beyond Ispahan, to within 250 miles of the Persian Gulf. The success of the first two columns named makes it certain that no peace terms which can be arranged by Turkey will enable the latter to retain Palestine when the time for settlement comes. This latter district is practically cut off from Turkey by the Sivas-Alexandretta line, and it is only a question of Russian or of British and French occupation of the ancient land of Israel, unless there comes a disastrous defeat of the Entente allies on both the western and eastern fronts—an event far from probable in human prospect.
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Motto — Charity Never Faileth.
THE GENERAL BOARD
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Juliette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards Music Director Miss Edna Coray Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Juliette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. III. MAY, 1916. No. 5.
PAYING THE PRICE.
We pay for work done.
The work looks so tempting before us, if it is good work we love to do, that we scarcely realise the price we pay when we have accomplished the task. The result will be so beautiful, so comely, so clean, so desirable, so altogether according to our own notions of how work ought to be done, that we crash into obstacles and climb over mountains of housework or brainwork without counting the cost. The house must be cleaned, the washing must be done, the dresses must be finished, the fruit must be put up, the lesson must be prepared, the visits must be paid. And so we go blindly on, overtaxed and stumbling. Nature will demand her price, sooner or later.
Ambition's Lure.
There is some great object or ambition which we have had in mind that will mean so much, not only to us, perhaps, but to the community in which we live or, perchance, to the family which we love. And so, for uncountable hours, days and weeks, we strive and struggle, and collapse happily at the end, if only we have climbed the height and achieved the object of our ambition but we pay the price. Nature demands the payment of her debt, every moment, every hour. She may exact her payment in the neglected friendships, in the untidy homes, in the untaught children, or through the bankruptcy of our own nervous system, but be assured she will exact her toll.
Pleasure's Heavy debts.
Some pleasure lures us—a trip to the coast, a journey to the East, a visit to the sacred temple, and the prospect itself is fascinating beyond degree and the plans we lay are rosy with promise. The imagination paints for us all the delights, all the pleasures, the profits and the joys of our undertaking, but only the wise know how to value these mirages on the desert of our fancy for be it known to all women that every pleasure, every joy, every trip even, every visit to church or temple, demands from us its full price. Achievement is always a negotiable quantity. Whatever effort we put forth, we at once must exchange with nature her equivalent, whether she exacts it in wearied muscles, worn nerves, sudden illness, or disappointment when the object is gained. For every pleasure we must pay two pangs.
The Toll Gate of Salvation.
Above the struggles that humanity enters into, that supreme effort for spiritual supremacy which is couched in the word salvation, demands the highest payment in return. It is so easy to run down hill, so difficult to climb up, especially with the handicaps of disinclination, temptation and the burdens of human limitations. We must pay the price. Bless your soul, anybody that achieves anything, even if it is only a burglar who climbs in the window, pays the price for his daring, in his stunted character and in his degeneracy. Those who ride in automobiles, make their payment to life, a very much heavier toll indeed, than those who walk in the quiet paths in the meadow. Those who inhabit mansions bankrupt every resource of human nature in sustaining and maintaining the handicap of their palatial homes. While the men and women who become musicians, artists, professionals, those who enter business or who conduct enterprises all those who preside in official positions, those who bear the pangs and pains of rejecting or accepting; of refusal or consent of giving encouragement or administering reproof—these all pay heavy draughts for that which they accomplish. Every home-maker and every home-builder pays his price for his pleasure and his comforts, in proportion as it is great or small.
What debts shall we incur?
How then shall we measure life values and deal only in such exchange as shall increase our mental and spiritual resources, while robbing no other soul of just due? Through choosing always the difficult, unselfish things to do, climbing hard paths of self-control and of devotion to community duties. By measuring ourselves wisely, taking stock accurately of our own resources and refusing daily to go into personal bankruptcy, no matter how tempting the lure, nor how heavy the pressure. The full price is demanded from us even for the well-chosen duties and pleasures, but He who spake as never man spake before has taught that even the wages of sin spell Death for the sinner; while the beautiful price of obedience to His laws is life eternal. Therefore, come! Go cheerfully forward, easing as we may the yoke upon the shoulder, the cross over the heart. We say with Browning, "I have always been a fighter—one more fight." Better, let us say, after each day's work, with Paul, "I have fought a good fight, I have kept the faith, I have finished my course," and so some day we shall enter into rest.
"SUFFRAGE SNAPSHOTS."
We have received from the author, Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, one of the brightest contributions in the form of a book, "Suffrage Snapshots," we have ever seen. The title page bears the appeal, "Have a smile with me." The contents consist of witty paragraphs on the Woman Question. All of them are jokes and yet, there is no joke in the permanence of the ideals presented in this book. For instance, I quote one "When Utah's electoral college met to cast the vote of the State for President and Vice-President, its members selected the one woman elector to carry the result to Washington. Those Western States are constantly giving just such examples as this of the way men lose respect for women when they can vote and hold office." This book can be purchased at National Suffrage Headquarters, New York City. Price, 15 cents.
Guide Lessons.
LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in June.
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. RUTH.
(Read, first, chapters 17-21 of Judges, and then Ruth.)
It is thought that the Book of Ruth comes in between Judges and Samuel. The narrative itself assigns the setting vaguely as "in the days when the judges ruled." Josephus gives the time as the days of Eli the prophet. At the time of the story therefore, as well as before and after, there were corruption, violence, and apostasy, among the Israelites. On this dark background is painted the pure, transparent figure of Ruth, whose story is intimately known everywhere among civilised peoples.
Ruth was a Moabitish woman. The Moabites, whose home was south and east from the Dead Sea, were, according to the Bible, descendants of Lot, the nephew of Abraham. Although not Israelites, they were therefore kinsmen of the Israelites. Elimelech's family had gone to Moab from Bethlehem to escape a famine, and there one of his two sons met and married Ruth, the other son marrying Orpah. And the two sons, Mahlon and Chilion, died, as also did the father. Then Naomi, the mother, "arose with her daughters-in-law, that she might return from the country of Moab." It is here that the story really begins.
There can be no doubt that the central characteristic of Ruth's nature is devotion, as exhibited in her attachment to Naomi. When the two young women had gone as far with their mother-in-law on the way to Bethlehem as the custom of those days would require, "Naomi said unto her two daughters-in-law, 'Go, return each to her mother's house. The Lord deal kindly with you, as ye have dealt kindly with the dead and with me.'" Orpah returned as requested, but Ruth refused to do so. "Intreat me not to leave thee," she said in a beautiful and memorable passage, "or to return from following after thee: for whither thou goest, I will go and where thou lodgest, I will lodge; thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God where thou diest, I will die, and there will I be buried." And she accompanied her mother-in-law to Bethlehem, where they both lived, so far as we know, the rest of their lives.
Nor does Ruth's attachment to Naomi diminish on reaching Bethlehem. Ruth there appears as the mainstay, literally as well as figuratively, of the older woman. For one thing, she gleans in the field of Boaz and brings the fruit of her toil home to her mother-in-law, and, for another, she opposes her uncomplaining disposition to murmurings of Naomi. "Call me not Naomi," the older woman complains, "call me Mara; for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me." None of this sort of thing do we hear from Ruth. And then, too, Ruth follows the guidance of her mother-in-law as implicitly as if she had been a child leaning upon superior knowledge and experience, but withal in such a way that leads us to feel that she is distinctly aware of her own real leadership.
Ruth's subsequent marriage to her husband's kinsman Boaz is another proof of her obedient and willing spirit. It may be quite possible, however, that Boaz was both attractive and manly as well as rich and wise. So that Ruth's stratagem was not an unpleasant duty for her to perform.
No doubt devotion, faithfulness, was Ruth's natural disposition. Orpah evidently looked to her own interest as it was manifest at the time to eyes that saw not in the distance. Nor must we minimise the effort required to leave the home country with its peculiar people, customs, traditions, and religion. But these Ruth also would have to abandon, and did abandon. So she must, by nature, have been inclined to the practice of this beautiful trait of character. Orpah, as Ruth, must have seen the loneliness of the mother-in-law, but it did not touch her as it did the sympathetic nature of the other. And so Ruth yielded to the call of the lonely, the helpless. One cannot but feel, as one looks at the situation in its larger bearings, that Ruth was also giving up herself to a greater call—the call of the Voice that is still and low, the Voice that is heard only by our deeper and better selves, the Voice that calls out of the far distance, the Voice of destiny and of God. A simple, modest, and delicately organised woman, such as Ruth is represented to us in this fine story, she is eminently fitted to become the antecedent of the Shepherd King, from whose loins was to come the gentle Christ.
QUESTIONS.
1. Who was Ruth?
2. Trace the hand of the Lord in the story.
3. What traits of character does Ruth exhibit?
4. How would these traits of character work themselves out in modern life—that is, what things would they lead one to do?
LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in June.
LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in June.
GENEALOGY.
CONCLUSION.
The wonderful fact that 40,000 women of this Society have been spending some time, at least, this winter in the study and preparation of individual sheets, is the most stupendous happening in genealogical circles for the year 1915. Naturally the question now arises, What shall the results of our wondrous work be? It may be well to explain exactly what these sheets are and why we have used them. They are sample sheets from the McAllister Living Record Book. Our forefathers were in the habit of keeping family Bibles in which were entered the births, deaths and marriages of the family. The parish church kept a record also of the marriage, birth and death, but each family felt the vital necessity of preserving the family records in their own homes. If a question arose in legal or social matters, it was a difficult matter and sometimes impossible to secure the date required from the parish clerks, for the various items of information would necessarily be scattered through different parish records, separated as the items would be by intervening years. The family Bible, however, kept that information compactly between the lids of that sacred book which was guarded as a treasure above price.
The family Bible has passed out of existence practically, especially the keeping of records therein. What is taking the place of the family Bible in our homes? It is certainly important that we shall get the records of our dead and record them properly, and then preserve them, but it is more vitally important that we shall record and preserve all data concerning ourselves and our children. Our descendants will be quite as disappointed in us if we fail to do this as we are with our grandparents who may have failed to preserve their records for us.
The McAllister Living Record Book was prepared under the direction and approval of the First Presidency of the Church for the express purpose of recording therein the data which usually went into the family Bible. More than that, very much more, for the author of the book, not only provided places where marriage, birth and death can be recorded, but has included the important items of baptism, of endowments, of missions, of ordinations, or in the case of women, where they were set apart for certain offices, of removal from place to place, and made a place for our educational records. In addition to all this the author provides for a few important eugenic facts such as the weight, the height, the colour of the eyes and hair, and the physical habit. Think of the infinite value to our descendants, of these interesting facts. We say emphatically that every family in this Church should purchase and fill out a Living Record Book. All need it. All should have it. If there be any widows in the Church who are too poor to purchase this book, it might be suggested that they buy a dozen or more of the sample sheets and sew them together with a brown paper cover, taking just as good care of this as they would of the record itself. Every child that is born should be entered at once into this Living Record. As he is baptised and confirmed, these entries should be made with the names of those who officiate in the ceremony; when he starts to school and the dates of all his ordinations in the priesthood, his missions and finally his marriage. Think how valuable that would be if you had such a record concerning all of your parents and grandparents whom you knew and loved. Then consider the joy and gratitude of your descendants if they possess that information concerning you. How many are there in this Society who have not the scratch of a pen in their own homes concerning the births, blessings, missions, etc., etc., of their children or themselves. This is a genealogical crime and should be remedied at once. Therefore, we close this season's lessons with the earnest suggestion that as far as possible every member of this Society shall secure a Living Record Book and fill it up properly or at least as well as may be. Make birthday presents and Christmas presents of these books to your family and friends.
The Living Record Book is not at all like the record books which have been prepared for the names of our kindred dead and our progenitors. No doubt most of the students are aware of these facts, but we state it for those who are not familiar with this point. One more point remains before we conclude this season's work. A great many ask what shall be done with the sheets which have been filled out during this winter's work. We would suggest that you make duplicate sheets and keep your own as a sample by which to prepare your book, and then deposit the duplicate in the archives of the society. When the great genealogical library is opened in the new Administration Building in this city, there may be a call issued for all these duplicate sheets from the women of the Society. So we suggest taking excellent care of them.
QUESTIONS.
What is the difference between the McAllister Living Record and the Record Book for temple work? What have you done about your own living temple record? Why does each family need a living record book? How would you proceed to fill up your living record book? Let such members of the class as may possess family Bibles with records in them produce them at this lesson. Also any who may have filled up their living temple books can exhibit them to the class. ART. SUMMER LANDSCAPE. The latter part of May, and the beginning of June show Nature's greatest profusion of flowers in our Intermountain region. As far as may be, Nature will now be robed in green. Take notice of the wide difference in shades and tints of green by sunlight, shadow, twilight, moonlight, and by starlight. These should be studied. Green is persistent, its colour shows strongly at night, or by lamplight. Note the difference in sage-brush green with its blue tendency. The alfalfa in strong sunlight shows more yellow. The apple green also has the same warm tone of yellow. The sage and willow we call cool greens, the alfalfa and apple green in sunlight are the warm greens. Look out on the fields and note the cool green in oat patches, and try to analyse the difference of tone in the various kinds of grain. One has more blue, another more yellow or more purple than the others. Now the sky is filled with fleecy clouds, and the blue breaking through is very intense. A JUNE PICNIC. June is the time for summer picnics. Choose the most delightful spot for a walk on this the year's most perfect day. Perfect development shows in all growing things. Now we see the promise of fruits and seeds, which will be harvested in the fall. The air is warm, balmy, and pleasant the sounds are cheerful. The birds' young broods are talking to their mothers, the insects hum, colour is fresh, strong, exciting, and pleasant. There is less of grey than at any other time of year, excepting brightest autumn. June feels joyous, full of hope, self-satisfied. GUIDE LESSONS. 291 a. Describe the fields from a high position. b. Describe your visit out to nature. c. Which is darker, the sky or the fields? d. Which are darker, the plowed lands or the green patches? e. What is the colour of the plowed lands? f. Which are darker, the nearby fields or the far-away? g. Which are darker, the newly plowed fields, or those plowed last summer? h. What is most exquisite in May time? (Answer) May morning. i. What is most wonderful in June? (Answer) The noon time, and the June twilight. j. Describe a May morning. ARCHITECTURE. AMERICAN ARCHITECTURE—THE FORMATIVE PERIOD, THE COLONIAL OR GEORGIAN PERIOD. a. Let a native of England describe the land from which the American Colonists came. b. Describe America as the Colonists found it. c. What kind of architecture would the Pilgrims naturally use, and why could it not be exactly copies from that of the Mother country? d. In what other things were the Colonists interested than in houses, and why? e. What style of architecture or house-building did the natives employ? f. Have we a national style of architecture? g. Speak of the Formative Period. h. Show pictures of the first American buildings if you can. i. What materials were available for the American home? j. What materials became most popular among the Colonists? k. What is the Colonial Period? l. What are the reasons for the great beauty of Colonial style? m. Describe Christ's Church, Philadelphia. n. Describe the interior of Christ's Church—Hartford. o. Describe Shirley House—Virginia. p. Describe Craigie House—Cambridge. 292 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Lesson VI. Home Economics. Fourth Week in June. THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME. THE ORGANISATION OF HOUSEWORK. I Woman's Work in the Home. 1. Results to be obtained. a. Physical activities. b. Activities for higher life. 2. The ideal housekeeper. a. Homemaker vs. housekeeper. 3. Hygiene of housework. II. The Day's Work. 1. System vs. haphazard effort. 2. Co-operation between the work of man and woman. 3. The maker and master of the system. 4. A working schedule of housework. a. The schedule. III. Children and Housework. 1. Train while young. a. Boy as well as girl. IV. The Rest Hour. 1. The physiology of rest. 2. The method. Roll call: One way to save work. Gem: Proverbs 31:10-31 read: "She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praiseth her." I. Woman's Work in the Home. Sisters, why do you work? For what purpose do you spend so lavishly the only thing you really own on earth—your time and your energy? 1. The results to be obtained. The general purpose of housework may be expressed thus: To give joy and health and happiness to your loved ones and thus to attain it yourself to make through your efforts an ideal home in every sense of the term. a. The physical needs of the home are those which contribute to the health and comfort of its inmates and include nutrition, light, heat, cleanliness, and convenience. The activities which make possible these conditions are many and varied, and include cooking, sewing, sweeping, dusting, bed-making, washing, ironing, nursing, and countless other processes which come in the daily round of every woman's experience. b. The higher life of man. In addition to the foregoing, the housekeeper must so order her home work that the so-called higher needs of her family may be met. She must inspire in them a desire for an education to assume their share of civic or neighbourhood improvement; to enjoy and extend true hospitality; to obtain aesthetic enjoyment in the arts, music, literature; and last, and most important, to encourage their moral and spiritual growth. 2. The perfect housekeeper. All of these requirements are rather a large order to give any one weak mortal, and yet that is what is given to every woman who faces life as a mother or home-maker. Of course, all women do not accomplish it equally well; all desire to do so, and strive to improve. a. Home-maker vs. housekeeper. Most women desire to be perfect home-makers which means so much more than to be a so-called "perfect housekeeper." The former is she who sees that all the functions of her life as mother are fulfilled. She recognises the great value of a clean, orderly home and so orders her time that she has strength to do that properly, and also enough left to instil into her family a love of the nobler things in life. The latter may be a very disagreeable person to live with, even though the inside and outside of the house be scrubbed to a shining cleanliness and the abhorred speck of dust may never find an abiding place. The really perfect housekeeper is she who understands that the house is for comfort and not discomfort, that the home is made for the husband and children and not the family for the home. She will understand that it is better to have an untidy house for a part of the day, if that is the means to make Sonny and his friends feel that home is the very best place on earth in which to spend an afternoon or evening. The perfect housekeeper is she who, when she finds that she cannot do all that she would like to do, is content to let some work go undone, if by so doing she may obtain something more valuable and more desirable. She is a master of proportions, and chooses those things in her daily life which have the most lasting value. She studies and prays to be able to discriminate amongst all the desirable things of life, those things which are the essential and which are the non-essential. 3. The hygiene of housework. This subject must not be passed without emphasising the benefits of housework. No gymnasium was ever equipped that offers the same array of health-giving exercise that the ordinary home does. If women would only dress comfortably and sensibly, and use wisdom in the performance of all tasks, working in properly ventilated homes, no healthier work could be found on earth than housework. Discuss. II. The Day's Work. In order that one may have time to be home-maker as well as housekeeper, it is necessary to make use of every moment wisely and to plan the day's work so carefully that the housework moves like a well oiled machine. This requires real brain work and is a task equal in importance and difficulty to any that is performed by men in the business world. Some women seem to be born natural organisers, yet all women may improve in this respect if they will take the necessary time and trouble to make for themselves a working plan. 1. System vs. haphazard effort. The only way to accomplish any great work is to reduce it to a system; and this is especially true regarding housework with so many varied tasks and so much necessary routine. The meals come in every home, regularly, twice or three times a day, and the other work must group itself around that. If housework is not systematised but done only when the notion strikes the worker, be sure the result will be an untidy home. It is so in business it is more surely so in the home. Regularity and precision must mark the performance of housework or chaos results. Dirt accumulates so fast in this mortal existence that the worker must be most vigilant and systematic to keep ahead of it, and if women would only use their heads more they would need to use the body less. It is a true saying the "head should save the heels." Co-operation in homes is especially desirable that a closer relation exist between the workers on the farm or in the shops and those in the home, so that the work of each may be done with less friction and loss of time. The wise woman will use her wits and her charm to get her husband to see her point of view. She will be equally willing to see his and give them the support and sympathy in his work that she expects from him in return. 3. The master of the system. If it is necessary to have system in the performance of housework, it is more necessary that the one who makes the system must be the master of it. One could scarcely find a more unsuccessful home than the one in which the system is "boss." No joy or spontaneity is possible in such a home because life itself is so variable. The system must be subservient to the best interests of the family; so that the clock-work machinery continues when all is normal, but may take second place during sickness or any unprecedented occurrence. It must be so elastic that it can adjust itself to the varying demands of family life. There is no greater slave on earth than the woman who is a slave to her system. Whatever happens one must remain master of one's work. 4. A working schedule. It is a great mistake to make the work of one or two days of the week so very hard that the worker is exhausted at the end of them. It is much wiser to spread the necessary work of the week over the six days so that no one day is especially crowded. If housework is done according to a weekly or monthly schedule this may be accomplished and also much of the dreaded semi-annual house cleaning may be avoided. The schedule must vary according to the number of hands there are to do the work. If a woman has no maid, and her children are small, she must plan more wisely than ever, that work may be done in such a way as to leave her some energy at the end of each day. Homes vary as do personalities, and no two could use the same schedule. However, a plan is given here that has been found successful. The home which uses this plan is large and one maid is kept, but it may serve as a guide and may be adapted to fit any condition. This schedule is type-written, framed and hung in the kitchen. It is found to be much more satisfactory than to repeat instructions to children or to a new maid if there is one, and, all in all, is found to be a great saver of energy and annoyance. In this family, too, since it is possible to use electricity for washing and ironing, this process occurs every other week. In the older countries of Europe, washing is done only once a month or once in three months or less often. A business is made of the laundry for two or three days or a week, then it is out of the way for a long period. If properly arranged for the less frequent washing is a great saver of time and strength as well as clothing. This is worth considering. a. The Schedule. Every Day. I. Clean bowl and taps in bath room as you wash. II. Make fire, brush off stove; empty, wipe off and refill tea kettle. (No mention is made of ashes because a chute runs from stove to a large can in basement and is emptied by a man once in three months.) 1. Begin breakfast. 2. See about yeast and bread. Mix on Monday, Wednesday, Saturday. III. Brush up front part of house. 1. Open windows and doors to air, remove plants. 296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. 2. Brush up (sweep if necessary) library, front room, study, hall, front porch. 3. Dust and straighten. 4. Water plants as needed. 5. Put away books and magazines. IV. Breakfast at 8 o'clock. 1. Some kind of cereal, and fruit. Chop or eggs. Barley coffee, cambric tea or milk. V. Clear away. 1. Brush up dining room, downstairs bedroom, bathroom, stairs and porch. 2. Do the dishes as instructed. Clean kitchen and pantry. 3. VI. Dinner at 12 o'clock. 1. Meat, potatoes, one vegetable, dessert. 2. Clear away. 3. Wipe up kitchen floor every other day. Clean thoroughly on Thursday. VII. Supper at 6 p. m. 1. Leftovers soup or vegetable. 2. Look up menus in cook books for supper. Special Day's Work. Sunday. I. Dust and straighten downstairs. 1. Water plants. 2. No breakfast. 3. Dinner at noon clean linen. 4. Dutch supper, usually to be simple as possible. Monday and Tuesday (every other). 1. Wash and iron. 2. Clean cellar. Monday and Tuesday (the other ones). 1. Clean and straighten house as per daily program. 2. Possible guest dinners. 3. Odd jobs. Wednesday. 1. Dust and straighten as usual. 2. Meals as usual. 3. Clean dining-room and back porch. a. Salt and peppers, wipe off and fill. b. Sugars and spoons, wash and fill (lump, cinnamon, common). c. Wash napkin rings—keeping track of napkins. d. Turn table cloth. e. Clean everything on sideboard and serving table. GUIDE LESSONS. 297 f. Notice doors, windows, and looking glass; clean if necessary. 4. Once a month. a. Dust pictures, walls, electroliers. Clean sideboard. b. Clean serving table. c. d. Clean china cupboard. e. Clean salt, peppers, sugars, inside and out. (The above may be rotated so that one cupboard is cleaned each week.) 5. Once in three months. a. Clean windows, electroliers, cupboards and radiators. 6. Once in six months. a. House-clean room walls, paint, windows, pictures, and cupboards. Thursday. 1. Dust and straighten front part as usual. 2. Meals as usual. 3. Clean kitchen and pantry. a. Every week. Stove and tea kettle, thoroughly. Clean, polish cupboard and doors. Open cupboards clean paper. Knife drawers clean paper. Refrigerator thorough cleaning, wipe oftener if necessary. Window ledges. Floors, a good cleaning, wipe mop-boards if necessary. Clean out vegetable table. b. Every month. Give one cupboard a good cleaning and rotate with others. Clean porch cupboard. Pour strong boiling sal soda water down waste pipes and refrigerator pipe. Dust wall, woodwork, radiator. Wipe off wood if necessary. Clean electrolier and windows. c. Every six months. House clean rooms. Friday. I. Meals as usual. II. Give following rooms a good cleaning: Bedroom, study, library, front room, hall, front porch, front stairs. 1. Once a week. a. Remove plants to kitchen and give bath 298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. b. Open windows and doors. c. Cover piano. d. Clean phonograph. e. Sweep thoroughly. f. Dust thoroughly. g. Fill all radiator tanks. 2. Once a month. a. Dust walls, pictures, electroliers, shake curtains, sofa pillows and couch cover. b. Straighten book cases. c. Clean radiators and fill tanks. d. Wipe windows if necessary. 3. Once in three months. a. Polish and wax floors (a man usually does this). b. Wipe off furniture with polish. c. Clean windows. 4. Once in six months. a. Vacuum cleaner on rugs and furniture. b. House clean walls, paint, pictures, etc. Saturday. I. Dust and straighten as usual. II. Meals as usual. III. Clean. 1. Back stairs, down stairs, bathroom, and back porch. IV. Baking. 1. Dessert for Sunday. 2. Cake, cookies, raisin bread or buns. V. Wind clock. III. Children as Aids. It is a great thing for children to learn the necessary process of housework under the tutelage of a wise mother. It is no small task to teach children to work, but it is time well invested both for mother and child, and should be begun by small chores as early in the child's life as is feasible. In after years the child can carry some of the load to mother's relief, and at the same time has learned one of life's most valuable lessons: that labour is life; and that there is no joy to equal that of useful work well done. a. Don't neglect the small boy; let him learn some of the household processes. If there is no farm or outside work for him to do, keep him busy with the house work. It will be a benefit to him all his life and may be his wife will call you blessed! Children are happiest when they are busy and if properly trained can be a great benefit in the home. IV. The Rest Hour. It seems fruitless to advise women to take an hour just for GUIDE LESSONS. 299 themselves every day even though the "hour" be only fifteen minutes. But it is advice that every wise woman will follow at any sacrifice. It is true that in this busy life there seems never to be time for it, but that is one thing a mother must just "take." 1. The body is comparable in every way to a highly sensitive machine. The food eaten may be compared to the fuel and the pleasures and relaxations of life to the oil that keeps the machine in running order. No machine can run very long without plenty of fuel and oil. The body builds itself during sleep. The day of the average woman begins about 6 a. m. and lasts until 10 o'clock at night; and the hours of sleep between are often disturbed while children are small. Sixteen hours of ceaseless toil is too much for any machine as sensitive as the body to endure for any length of time. So that if women would only understand themselves a little, many of the ills of a broken body might be avoided. A busy woman can't afford to miss the "quiet hour," for because of it the machine will run so much more smoothly during the rest of the time, and so very much more may be accomplished. It is really a necessity, if life is to be lived at its best. 2. One need not necessarily sleep during this period. Though a daily fifteen minute cat-nap is a very good habit for a young mother to acquire. The important thing is that each house-mother (and others, too, for that matter) needs a small period each day all to herself. During that time banish all household care and worry do it through prayer and force of will and constant trying. It will not be easy at first, but stay with it and you will succeed. If your sleep is broken at night, try to sleep or at least relax and rest the body absolutely during your "rest hour." If you sleep well at night, take the time and indulge the taste your life seems too busy to allow,—let it be anything from reading magazine advertisements to practising the piano. The main thing is to take it some time during the day and let it be as sacred as your prayers and for all the family to respect. You will be well repaid by the added vigour of body and mind and spirit. Don't forget that "all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy," and Jill a useless woman. A mother must be in command of all her powers and any means is justifiable to that end. QUESTIONS ON LESSON VI. 1. What is the most important phase of housekeeping and why do you consider it so? 2. What is the difference between a housekeeper and a home-maker? 3. What are your views concerning the healthfulness of 300 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. housework? When may it be harmful? How should one dress for it? 4. What are advantages and disadvantages of the use of system in the performance of housework? 5. Have you succeeded in getting the co-operation you desire between the work of the farm or shop and the home? And how have you done it? 6. Do you employ a definite schedule in the performance of your housework and will you give its essential points? (Let three or four answer this question. One month before this lesson is given ask two or more women to prepare and give their own schedule.) 7. Name the advantages of having children, boys and girls, learn to do housework at an early age. 8. Have you been successful in teaching your children to work, and describe your method? a. How early should a child be taught to do small chores? 9. Give some instances where success or failure in life's work has resulted from young people knowing or not knowing how to work. 10. Name some ways of making home work attractive to girls and boys. 11. Do you believe in the "rest hour" and why? Name the benefits of the practice and give instances of those who have profited by it. 12. Have you tried (and with what success) letting your daughters who are studying Home Economics in the schools take the burden of the housekeeping during vacation and letting mother have a rest? A VOICE CALLING. A voice insistent, calls unto the soul of man And bids him take the clod whereon he stands And mould and fashion it with hands Made glad by toil— Until the world that halts to jeer one day, All sober, shall pass on its way, And ponder in its heart And marvel, that such common clay Can clothe a thought divine, Yet be of earth a part Maud Baggarley. HEALTH NOTES FOR THE SETTLERS. THE COMMON WASH RAG. Prepared by the U. S. Public Health Service. The United States Public Health Service, and the various State and local boards of health, have taken adequate measures for the abolition of that distributer of disease germs, the common towel. Now comes the news that the common wash rag is even a greater menace to health. The hotels and public hostelries have recognised this, for some time, and have supplied their guests with sterilised wash cloths in individual sealed packets. The damp, "sour-smelling" wash rag still exists, however, in many private bathrooms. Imperfectly washed out after use, frequently not wrung out at all, it is often hung over a rack or a radiator near an open window, there to collect dust and dirt. Frequently the same wash rag is used by the entire family, thus affording an easy means of transference of mouth secretions from person to person. In many households each individual has his own cloth and his individual towel, but these hang so close to one another that there is ready interchange of bacteria. Each individual should have his own wash cloth. It should be thoroughly washed out with clean, hot water after use. It should then be wrung as nearly dry as possible and, if possible, hung in the sun to dry. It should not come in contact with other wash cloths. In the investigations the United States Public Health Service is conducting in regard to the prevalence of trachoma, it has been found that common towels probably acted as a medium of distribution of the germ of the disease. From Reclamation Organisation. Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 19¾ discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves. Please Use Our Subscription Blanks EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Genealogical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 'Utah's Most Popular Music House" English and American SAVE HALF ARCHITECTURE When Buying Your Piano By GEO. M. ALLEN We always have on hand a representative stock of instruments used as demonstrators, returned from rentals, etc., practically good DEVOTEES AND THEIR as new, but AT ABOUT ½ ORIGINAL PRICES SHRINES. Send to this office or Mention this magazine and ask for special list. to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned. OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID The Most Interesting, Z. C. M. I. Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections School Shoes of the West For Boys ARE REACHED VIA are made for service Including they will keep the boys' Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon feet warm and dry. Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River Z. C. M. I. Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts ALLOVERS Pacific Coast Excursions are the ideal Daily to November 30th play garment For Descriptive Literature, address for boys and D. E. Burley, girls. Cheap, General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah serviceable. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters—and sons—to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. If the "DAY" has been set Let me sell you the Ring Diamond Rings $20 and up One Quality Only—the Best McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City Plan Your 1916 Vacation See America's Playground California Special Excursion Rates, May 1st to Sept. 1st, 1916 See the Thirteen Hundred Miles of Scenery via the SOUTHERN PACIFIC Half the pleasure of a trip is Planning it For carefully illustrated itineraries Write or call on C. L. McFAUL, Ticket Office Second Floor Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SPECIAL ARTICLES JUNE, 1916 MOTHERS OF OUR LEADERS IN ISRAEL With Illustrations. THE APRIL CONFERENCE Amy Brown Lyman GRANITE STAKE CANTATA BEYOND THE PORTALS Laura Moench Jenkins. Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29, Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy 10c Vol. III No. 6 TWO BOOKS Your Dealer Sells Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead A simplified form, with complete "Utah-Idaho" instructions for properly recording this work. So great is the demand, and so L. D. S. Family and Individual Record popular is the brand of Utah-Idaho Arranged specially for recording Sugar, that it may be ordered by in a most desirable and concise form, name from your dealer; he is sure to important events in the lives of have this perfect sugar; every progressive members of the church. dealer has it in stock. These books are sold Housewives have found what a at $1.25 each pure, clean, white, dependable sugar Deseret News Book Store it is; how well it sweetens foods, and 6 MAIN STREET how satisfactory the results are when it is used for cooking, preserving and jellymaking. When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Let your dealer know that you are Style, Excellence and a judge of good things by specifying Satisfaction "UTAH-IDAHO" the next time you order sugar. More economical by the sack. Utah-Idaho Sugar The Thomas ABSOLUTELY PURE Studio UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. JOSEPH F. SMITH, President Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. THOS. R. CUTLER, Vice-Pres and Gen'l Mgr. Established 1877 Phone Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY Attention To Subscribers Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 19¾ discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves. Please Use Our Subscription Blanks The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS. JUNE, 1916. Old Folks Greeting 301 Mothers of Leaders in Israel 303 The April Conference Amy Brown Lyman 309 Granite Stake Relief Society Cantata 320 The Cross 324 Beyond the Portals Laura Moench Jenkins 325 Plain Gossip Mrs. Grundy 335 The Seeing Heart Maud Baggarley 337 A Prayer for Life Annie G. Lauritzen 338 The Prince of Ur Homespun 339 A Heroine Lucy Burnham 343 Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde 344 Ethics Lillian G. Knight 348 Notes from the Field 349 Query Box Hazel Love Dunford 350 Current Topics James H. Anderson 352 Editorial: Climbing 354 Guide Lessons 355 ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY. Patronise those who advertise with us. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City. MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY—60 East South Temple. STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J, Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City. THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City. TAYLOR—S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St., Salt Lake City. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City Utah. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. Grandmothers—Mothers Have Your Own Daughters—Granddaughters Check Book will all find interesting reading in A bill paid by check is safely "AFTER TWENTY YEARS" paid—cancelled checks are indisputable receipts. Business, personal and household bills should By Dr. Geo W Middleton be paid by check. The convenience and safety of this method will Apostle Reed Smoot says: readily appeal to anyone. "I wish this book was in every American Home." Open your account at the Merchant's Bank. Deposits may be PRICE $1.25 postpaid mailed with safety. Deseret Sunday School Union Book Store 44 E. South Temple Salt Lake City SALT LAKE'S "The Bank with a LADY FLORIST Personality" Mrs. Emma J. Sanders Merchant's Bank Capital $250,000 278 South Main Street Member of Salt Lake Clearing House Schramm-Johnson No. 3 John Pingree, Pres. O.P. Soule, V. P.; Moroni Heiner, V. P.; Radcliffe Q. Cannon, D. R. Pingree, Asst. Cashiers Phone Wasatch 2815 Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City Salt Lake City, Utah Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. RELIEF SOCIETY DEPARTMENT HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 THE purpose of the UTAH STATE NATIONAL IT is at all times to render Bank BANK helpful service and S.M.TAYLOR & Co. SALT LAKE CITY make the handling Undertakers and Embalmers of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant SUCCESSORS TO Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 Years in One Location UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK 251-257 E. First South Street Your Account is Cordially Invited! Salt Lake City, Utah Efficient Service, Modern Methods, Complete Equipment age; but a new life was about to dawn upon them, a life that would change their daily struggle for bare existence to a gradual betterment of themselves and which would establish their children in a land of peace, freedom and plenty. To them it was a glorious reward for obedience and faithful service. In 1850, Euphamia Wilson, Jean Nibley's younger sister, married and sailed to America, locating in Rhode Island. She wrote back encouraging reports of America and sent money to James Nibley and wife Jean to emigrate their two eldest children. Not willing to separate her family, Jean began to plan how she could secure the money to emigrate every member of her family. She therefore determined to make an effort to borrow the money, and went straightway to the merchant with whom she had dealt for twelve years. After making her errand known, he not only granted the money for their passage across the sea, but offered to supply the family with clothing and everything necessary for the journey, without security, and to wait until they were able to pay the debt after arriving in America. This unusual incident indicates the remarkable character of this most remarkable pioneer Scotch woman. An appeal to a shrewd, cautious Scotch merchant by a comparatively poor, unknown Scotch house-mother for an indefinite bill of credit demonstrates both the winning nature of her honest appeal and the profound financial esteem in which this good woman was held. She had conducted her little shop on such thoroughly sound principles that her friendly associate in business was perfectly willing to put his official trust in her power to meet any and all obligations. Preparations were at once made for departure, and in the year 1855 they set sail, as steerage passengers, on the clipper ship, Dreadnought. On the voyage, they were caught in a terrible storm and came near being lost, but through the blessing of Providence, they arrived safely in Boston harbour in twenty-eight days. MOTHERS OF OUR LEADERS IN ISRAEL. 307 From Boston they went direct to Greenville, R. I., to her sister Euphamia Gillooly. After arriving in Greenville, James Nibley the father, found employment as night-watchman at the woollen mills, and the son, James, and daughters, Mary and Margaret, worked at the looms, while the mother remained at home, caring for her family, while the younger children attended the school in the district. The family remained here five years, and accumulated considerable means, and out of the first money received Jean Nibley paid her indebtedness to the merchant in Scotland who had so generously assisted her family to emigrate. Before their departure from Rhode Island they had saved money enough to buy a good outfit with which to emigrate to Utah, making them independent of any other help and in the month of May of 1860, the family of James Nibley prepared to move west. They joined Capt. John Smith's company of Saints at Boston, in which Karl G. Maeser was a member, travelled west by train to Albany, thence to Niagara Falls and Chicago, from there to Quincy, Illinois, then by boat up the Mississippi river to Hannibal. From there they went to St. Joseph, Missouri, where they took steamer, and sailed up the Missouri river to Florence, or Winter Quarters. The family spent one month at Winter Quarters making preparations for the journey across the plains. At Florence James Nibley bought a new Schuttler wagon, two yoke of oxen, two cows, and a new Charter Oak stove, and about June 19, 1860, left Florence with the company in charge of J. D. Ross as captain. The company made the journey in a little less than three months, arriving in Salt Lake City on the 1st of September. The family of James Nibley were counselled to go north and settle in Cache Valley. Arriving at Wellsville, the father and eldest son, James, began at once to prepare a house to dwell in. They dug a hole four feet in depth, then with a log foundation and a covering of willows and earth, a chimney built of cobble rock, with a piece of carpet hung over the door, the home was completed. This crude cabin served as a shelter to the family of James Nibley, wife and six children that winter. The next year they built a house, aided by the bishop of the town. The mother and children, next day after their arrival, went into the grain fields to glean, that they might provide bread for the coming winter, and after this was gone Sister Nibley went out and did washing for the two following years, receiving for her pay seven pounds of flour a day. In those days the Indians were very troublesome and a fort had to be built for the protection of the new settlers. The two 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. eldest daughters, Mary and Margaret, were married and soon after this the eldest son, James married. The small, but exceedingly rare cook stove they had brought with them from Omaha, was sold for twenty-five acres of land, and after the city of Wellsville was laid out, James Nibley built a good sized log room upon one of the city lots, and later added two rooms, which made them a comfortable home. She raised chickens, made butter and kept an excellent garden. As an evidence of the untiring thrift and industry of this active mother, we are told that Jean Nibley dug potatoes on shares one season and sold her share for $25.00 with which she bought shares in the Co-operative store of Wellsville. Sister Nibley acted as teacher in the Relief Society for a number of years, and was a regular attendant at the meetings. Her son Charles married in 1869, and moved to Brigham City. Henry married in 1879, and the daughter, Euphamia, married in 1880. In December, 1876, Brother James Nibley, the father and husband was stricken with pneumonia and died in nine days after, at the age of 66 years. Sister Jean Wilson Nibley survived her husband twelve years, her daughter Euphamia remaining with her as a faithful companion and nurse. For the last few years of her life she was an invalid. She died in March, 1889, and was buried by the side of her husband in the cemetery at Wellsville. WRITTEN FOR A BEREFT SISTER Edith McClendon. Dear sister, you have been bereft of one you hold most dear Your precious child has gone into another sphere. You had no thought that she would be called away Or you'd have prayed to God to let her with you stay. Ofttimes 'tis best we know not what is designed to be, But silent bow beneath the rod, and answer His decree. We do not know the sweets of life, until the bitter flows, Nor feel the need of light, until the brightness goes. The April Conference. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. The annual conference of the Relief Society was held Tuesday and Wednesday, April 4 and 5, 1916, with representatives from sixty stakes, and two missions. Two public sessions were held, on Tuesday at ten a. m. and two p. m., in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. At the morning session, there were 1,220 people in attendance, and at the afternoon session the number reached 1,556. On Wednesday two officers' meetings were held in the auditorium of the Bishop's Building, when the hall was taxed to its capacity. On Saturday April 8, two special meetings were held in the Bishop's building. The morning meeting was devoted to public health and nurse work, and at the afternoon session Home Economics was the subject for consideration. Both sessions were well attended. The meetings of the conference were presided over by President Emmeline B. Wells. At the opening session Mrs. Wells extended love and greetings to those assembled and expressed her great delight and happiness in the large attendance. She felt thankful for the peace that reigns in our land and expressed the hope that it would continue. Mrs. Wells declared that this is the greatest day that the Relief Society has yet had and urged the members to be diligent and faithful and to place the work of this organisation before any worldly pleasure. The work has increased beyond all expectation and extends now to the islands of the sea and to every place possible where women can meet and organise. She emphasised the importance of the charity aspects of the work and asked God's blessing and protection on all the members of the Society. Mrs. John T. Caine, a counsellor in the Cache stake, responded to the greeting of Mrs. Wells. She said that the women of the Society were not forgetting the charitable purpose for which the organisation was founded, and were but broadening their scope through the study of genealogy, home economics, and theology, while not neglecting the care of the sick, and to look after the poor. Especial mention was made of the Relief Society Magazine, the successor of the Woman's Exponent, and the aid rendered by it to the women in their work. She spoke of the encouragement of temple work engendered by the genealogical study, and the importance of the home economic study. The study of home economics, she declared, was introducing more system into our homes. The modern mother is getting a broader outlook into the affairs of Church and state, and becoming a better 310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. companion to her husband, and a better mother to her children, through the work of the Relief Society. The reports of the work in the stakes were given by Mrs. Aggie H. Stevens, of Weber stake Mrs. Alice R. Woolley, of; Tooele; Mrs. Phoebe A. Brough, of Woodruff; Mrs. Louisa B. Benson, of Oneida, and Mrs. Minnie Robinson of the California mission. The speakers all reported the societies of the various stakes in a thriving condition, a spirit of unity and harmony prevailing among the members. Mrs. Robinson mentioned the recently organised Relief Society at Tucson, Arizona, made up of women who have been forced to leave their homes in Mexico because of the war, and told of their faithfulness and interest in the work. Mrs. Benson mentioned the efforts of the Relief Society women to raise over $1,000 for the new stake gymnasium in Oneida, although the membership of the stake organisation amounted to less than one thousand members. Elder Rulon S. Wells, of the Council of the Seventy, was the next speaker. He felt that the women of the Relief Society are wielding a wonderful force and power in the community and that it is their duty to practice holiness thus bettering mankind and bringing relief to those in distress. He quoted the passage in the Doctrine and Covenants which says:"You must practice virtue and holiness before the Lord continually," and said that this means faith in the gospel, remission of sins and the retaining of the Spirit of God. In this world of ours men are striving to gain knowledge of the truth, but are going at it in a wrong way. They are trying to gain it through philosophy and learning. Elder Wells did not depreciate the attainments and learning of the age, but said that as far as finding God is concerned, the wisdom of men is but foolishness. We can only obtain knowledge of him by practicing virtue and holiness. In these words is involved the whole plan of Relief Society work, the sanctifying and purifying of the hearts of men that all may be brought back into his presence. The way back is open to all and the children of men do not have to be philosophers or scholars to find it. It is being found and shown by the women of Zion. Every time Relief Society women answer the cry of distress they are helping in the saving of souls and are developing godlike characteristics. They are loving their neighbours as themselves and are practicing virtue and holiness in the uplift of humanity. The Lord is, therefore, pleased with them and their work. At the Tuesday afternoon session addresses were made by Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings, Counsellor Julina L. Smith, Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, and President Emmeline B. Wells. Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon urged the young women to be THE APRIL CONFERENCE. 311 faithful in attendance at their Relief Society meetings, and valiant in all their labours connected with the Church. She spoke of the wonderful work being done in the Sandwich Islands, and stated that these faithful sisters are looking to us for help and inspiration. She felt that our responsibilities are very great, and urged all to live up to the knowledge we possess. The next speaker was Dr. Romania B. Penrose. Mrs. Penrose spoke of the importance of being cheerful, and helpful to those with whom we come in contact. She felt that it is our duty to be as thoughtful of others as we are of ourselves, and if we desire to hide our own failings, let us be as anxious and willing to hide the failings of others. Mrs. Penrose was followed by Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings, who spoke briefly on Temple Work, and on the importance of living lives that will permit us to enjoy the ordinances and blessings in the holy temples. Mrs. Jennings called attention to the fact that the ideals of the Latter-day Saints are high, and that we should struggle continually to live up to them. Counsellor Julina L. Smith emphasised the need of stricter training in the homes of the young people. In the beginning of her address she paid a tribute to President Emmeline B. Wells and to the late Bathsheba W. Smith, characterising them both as faithful to their work and to the Church. She stated that there are many things which can be taught in no other place as effectively as in the home, such as praying and paying tithes. The Relief Society women should care for the sick and distressed, but their first duty should be to their boys and girls. Mrs. Smith regretted the fact that there is so much immodesty at the present time in the matter of dress. She felt that young girls do not understand how to dress, and that the mothers should impress upon them the importance of being neatly and modestly attired at all times. Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams followed in the same line of thought, expressed by the former speaker, emphasising especially the importance of proper chaperonage for young people. She stated that young people must have pleasure and recreation, and that proper amusements should be furnished for them, but parents should not overlook the importance of properly guarding and protecting them in their pleasures as well as at all other times. She mentioned the necessity of keeping moderately early hours, and the importance of parents knowing always with whom their young are associated. She stated that we are responsible for our children. They are the most precious heritages God has given us, and we can never give up the care of them. We should join them in their pleasures and sympathise with them at all times. Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune told of her recent work in the Eastern States mission. While she was there, the New York City 312 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. and Brooklyn branches of the Society were reorganised and the women had received a splendid start in genealogical work. The extensive libraries of New York City, Boston and Chicago are proving of great assistance in this special work, and the eastern Saints are already planning how they can help the people at home look up their ancestry. President Emmeline B. Wells urged the members of the organisation to place special emphasis this year on the storing of grain, dried fruits, etc. With war going on in so many countries she declared, it is necessary for the women of the Church to be prepared to feed those who come hungry from war-stricken districts. OFFICERS' MEETINGS. Morning session, 10 o'clock. At the two officers' meetings held on Wednesday, April 5, the roll call showed the following attendance General Board:—member, 22; stakes represented, 60 41 by stake presidents and 19 by stake officers, 11 stakes not represented. Two missions were represented, the California, by President Minnie Robinson, and the Northwestern States, by Mrs. Alec Nibley. There were in all 405 officers in attendance. The annual financial and statistical report of the General Society was read by the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, with comparisons, explanations and comments. The report showed that the Society is growing in all the branches of its work. Following are a few comparative figures: Membership, 1914, 38,879 members: in 1915, 41,274. (This great increase is due in part to the fact that the reports from the missions last year were not complete.) Number of branches in 1914, 845 in 1915, 1,004. Paid for charitable purposes, 1914, $48,482.12 in 1915, $56,967.31. These funds, it must be remembered, are gathered and disbursed entirely by the local branches. One of the most gratifying features of the report was the fact that though the resources of this great organisation are $536,046.29, its liabilities, or indebtedness, is only $2,004.41. This speaks well for the financial wisdom and business ability of the women of the Society. A lesson on the women of the Bible was given by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, the special subject being Deborah. Mrs. Gates pointed out the essentials necessary in presenting a lesson, the choosing of the central thought, the introducing of the lesson with review questions of the last lessons, and its proper conclusion. She characterised Deborah as a type of modern woman, she being a capable judge, poet and mother in Israel. Especial tribute was paid to her womanliness, and Mrs. Gates concluded the lesson: THE APRIL CONFERENCE. 313 with reading the song of Deborah (Judges 5). The lesson was followed by a discussion. Following is a plan of the lesson as outlined by Mrs. Gates. This plan might be used with profit in connection with other lessons PRESENTING A LESSON. Choose the Central Thought. (a) Too many added thoughts, or side issues will confuse the hearers. (b) Don't cover too much ground. (c) Focus to central thought. Introduce Lesson with Questions. (a) Connect lesson thought with lives and experiences of your hearers. Tell the Story, or State the Lesson. (a) With young hearers, it is sometimes effective to draw from them by indirect questions, the central thought to be presented. (b) Let the central thought be developed rather than told. (c) Give atmosphere and local colour of story, but don't over-emphasise minor points. Conclusion. (a) Fasten the lesson thought through apt quotations, questions, or through a few strong sentences. (b) If your hearers are responsive, let them add personal experiences to show their own application of the lesson. Note. Make the Bible familiar to all Relief Society members. Afternoon session, 2 o'clock. The whole time of the afternoon session was given to a discussion of Relief Society problems, with the following speakers: Mrs. Amanda Bagley, President of Cottonwood stake Mrs.; Addie M. Cannon, President of Forest Dale ward Mrs. Elizabeth Cartwright, President of the Seventeenth ward, and Mrs. Mary B. Horsfall, President of the Ninth ward. Mrs. Bagley stated that she is probably one of the youngest Relief Society presidents of the Church, from the point of service,—and that her stake is one of the youngest the Cottonwood stake being until recently a part of the Granite stake. The first problem of this new stake was the membership. The stake officers, however, united in a determined effort to enlarge the membership and to bring in all available people. Their success in this matter 314 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. has been remarkable, and was due to the fact that the meetings were made attractive, and that the officers had endeavoured to get as many people as possible interested in the various lines of work and activities. In the beginning only three meetings were held each month, but because of the increased interest, weekly meetings had been established. As a means of being helpful to those in need, this stake, during last summer, canned 1,100 quarts of fresh fruit which was distributed, the Relief Society furnishing the bottles. Another attractive feature of the work, during the last year, was the course of lectures given under the direction of the county physician, at the County Hospital, especially for Relief Society workers. These lectures were given monthly and consisted principally of instruction in nursing, and the care of the sick generally. This stake has a stake sewing committee, and a similar committee in each ward. During the year the ward committees under the direction of the stake committee, prepared numerous articles for the annual bazaar. In order to have attractive, useful and saleable articles, the stake committee furnished plans and patterns and supervised the work. The Stake Board is, at present, preparing a theatrical entertainment which they expect to take to each ward during the year. A nominal price of admission will be charged for the entertainment and the proceeds will be left in the respective wards. Mrs. Bagley expressed the belief that she has the best stake in the Church and the best and most willing workers. Mrs. Addie Cannon stated that two of the hardest problems Forest Dale ward has encountered are, general attendance and weekly meetings. But when she compared the growth of the ward organisation, from the time small monthly meetings were held in a little room 13x16, in a private house, to the present meetings held in a room 31x33, furnished with long tables, commodious cupboards, and all sorts of conveniences, she could not but feel encouraged. It has been a hard matter in this ward to unite the work and business meetings, as so much sewing has been done in the past, but that the matter is being adjusted successfully. One of the chief features of work in this ward is the work that has been done for the needy children. Every effort is being put forth to see that none of the children in the ward are handicapped. The members of the Society are trying to enlarge their own sympathies so that they will be interested in all children. Most mothers are interested in their own children, but it takes a large-hearted and broad-minded woman to be interested in the children of others. There are a great many deserted wives and widows in this ward who are reaping the benefit of this splendid work. THE APRIL CONFERENCE. 315 The sewing meetings are the best attended and much work is accomplished on these days. As much as one hundred yards of material is cut and made up in one day. The finished articles are given away whenever there is need for them, while others are sold at nominal prices. Mrs. Lizzie Cartwright, President of the Seventeenth ward stated that, being less than a year old in the work, she had hardly had time to solve any of the problems she had met. Her first work was preparing Christmas baskets for the needy, which is an established custom in this ward. This year was no exception to the rule. Mrs. Cartwright felt that one of the most important problems is the charity department. To help others to help themselves is the keynote of true charity, and to give help without requiring service in return is often more harmful than helpful. She suggested the possibility of arranging for labour bureaux in the cities in connection with charity work, where people might be assisted to help themselves and where work might be given to others who are really in need, but who are too proud to apply for help. These problems are very hard for a young president to solve, and help and suggestions along these lines would be very acceptable. In her short Relief Society experience Mrs. Cartwright had already met two classes of people, those who prefer to beg rather than to work, and those who are too proud to ask for assistance although they are really in need. The speaker stated that of all meetings in her ward, the work meetings were the best attended. She had, therefore, wondered if it would not be a good plan to allow the members to sew at all the meetings. Mrs. Mary B. Horsfall, President of the Ninth ward, stated that the membership problem was one of the difficulties in her ward that there are names on her roll of many who never attend meetings and never pay dues then there are others who pay dues; and contribute liberally, but who do not attend the meetings. In connection with this, another problem is met in getting the dues collected in January instead of March. In this ward there has also been difficulty in getting the sisters interested in genealogy. The officers, therefore, decided to have stories or autobiographies of the lives of the members given at intervals, in order to stir up interest, and because of the fact that many of the people are from foreign lands and have had unique experiences, this exercise has been very interesting and instructive, and has successfully brought about the end for which it was designed. Counsellor Julina L. Smith remarked upon the subject of devotion to duty in Relief Society work. Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams spoke on the importance of transacting all Relief Society work in a businesslike manner. She instructed the stake presidents to purchase small pasteboard filing 316 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. cases where all official correspondence and circular letters should be filed for reference. President Emmeline B. Wells, in a few closing remarks, expressed her appreciation for the love and kindness as well as the material gifts and flowers which had been showered upon her by the stakes and wards of the Relief Society on her recent birthday. She also desired to express her thanks, and the thanks of the entire Board, for the beautiful flowers sent to the Relief Society headquarters by the Maricopa stake Relief Society, at this conference time. President Wells left her blessing with all present and hoped that peace would be with us until we meet again, in October. Mrs. Maria T. Goff moved a vote of thanks to the General Board for the luncheons served on Tuesday and Wednesday, between the meetings. The motion was seconded and carried by a rising vote. SPECIAL MEETINGS. Saturday, April 8, 10 a. m. Meeting was held under the direction of the Committee on School Obstetrics and Nursing and Public Health, and was presided over by the chairman, Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings. Dr. Roberts gave the opening address which consisted of instructions on the care of children. She explained among other things, how germs are carried, and that when the mother, who is afflicted with a cough, nurses her babe she should cover her mouth and nostrils with a handkerchief as protection for the child. She stated that babies should sleep alone. Mothers should watch for mouth-breathing. If a child sleeps with its mouth open, the mother should make investigation at once, as this habit causes deafness and other ailments. Babies should nurse every three hours only, during the day, and once during the night. Babies should be bathed on a table rather than on the lap. Boiled water and sterile clothes should be used around the new-born babe. In case of earache, two or three drops of warm water should be put in the ear after which the nose should be blown. For a sprained wrist cold water cloths should be used for four or five hours and the wrist given absolute rest. Adhesive plaster around the wrist will support it. In case a patient is subject to fainting, at the first appearance of symptoms, insist upon her stooping over to pick up articles on the floor. Several repetitions of this will cause the blood to circulate normally. For nose bleed, have the patient hold the head erect, raise the hands. The nurse should then place her knee in the patient's back and have her remain in this posture until relief is secured. A handkerchief or a rolled up piece of paper placed in the THE APRIL CONFERENCE. 317 mouth under the upper lip will also stop nose bleeding. These emergency treatments were demonstrated by members of the Nurse Class. The subject, "Why I am a Member of the School of Nurses," was treated by Miss Mary Young, Mrs. E. E. Jenkins and Mrs. Preston Nibley. Miss Young stated that among the useful lessons she had learned was that of self-control, and the proper attitude to assume under difficult circumstances also the sacredness of the; human body. Miss Young had especially enjoyed the lessons in invalid cooking. She spoke also of the beautiful spirit that had obtained in the school and of the splendid methods used by the teacher in presenting the work. Mrs. Preston Nibley spoke on the importance of this work to the young mother. In her own little family she had been confronted with many new problems, which she approached with fear and nervousness. She felt that her training in the Nurse School had increased her confidence, and she was firmly of the opinion that knowledge dispels fear. She expressed her gratitude to the Relief Society and to Dr. Roberts for the splendid training she had received. Mrs. E. E. Jenkins stated that a great deal of sickness is due to ignorance, and that any study which will help us to understand our bodies and their needs is worth while to ourselves and beneficial to others. She argued that by learning the needs of our bodies, we will learn to be masters of our appetites and will be stronger mentally, physically, and spiritually. Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry gave an address on "The Mother and Child." She referred very feelingly to the birth at Bethlehem, pointing out the lack of material comfort, emphasising the richness of faith and contentment. She spoke of the great responsibility of motherhood, calling attention to the fact that very few mothers realise the possibilities in their own children. Little did the mother of Abraham Lincoln realise the possibilities in the helpless little babe at her breast. Mrs. Dusenberry made a plea for the misunderstood children of whom there are, she declared, seventy-five out of every hundred. She closed her address by reciting Eugene Field's poem, "All Alone." Saturday, April 8, 2 p. m. The Economics Session was held under the direction of the Committee on Home Economics, the chairman, Janette A. Hyde, presiding. The speakers on this occasion were Miss Gertrude McCheyne, who treated the subjects, "Method of Teaching Home Economics in Womens' Organisations," "The Organisation of Housework;" and Mrs. E. D. Ball, who spoke on "The Household Budget and the Business-side of Housekeeping." 318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Miss McCheyne emphasised the importance of choosing for class instructors in this department, young women who are willing and anxious to learn the newest and best methods of home-making, and who have the ability to teach others. At the roll call, it was suggested that, to stimulate interest, sentiments, recipes, quotations, and menus be given by the members, in answer to their names. All work should be practical and illustrative. The teacher should not try to take up too many things in one lesson. She should choose a subject, develop certain points, and be sure that all these points are clear in the minds of the class. In every lesson, there should be some written material required from the class, either written suggestions, or comments on some phase of the work. An interesting change from the regular routine is to have magazine and book articles reviewed by the members of the class. Evening meetings, occasionally, are also helpful in keeping up the interest of the class, as well as the interest of the public. Debates are also profitable and pleasurable. The speaker referred to an interesting debate, held by a Home Economics class on the subject, "Resolved, that it is easier to keep clean a large house, than a small one." Miss McCheyne suggested that the work be made seasonal. There are some subjects that are appropriate at all times, such as care of children, but there are other subjects, which are more interesting at certain times, than they are at others for example;—housecleaning, fruit canning, etc. Miss McCheyne urged that suitable books be purchased in the wards and stakes, in order that more reading may be done. The speaker stated that the organisation of housework simply means system. Common sense teaches us that in order to be efficient in the home, we must have system, everything must be planned and arranged for. Lack of system breeds discontent, and causes old age. In order to have system in the home, there must be co-operation with the children. No work can be organised without co-operation. Meals should be had regularly, and all other work should have its proper time and place. Children should be interested in the appearance of the home, and should be trained early to do their part, by learning to pick up their clothing, and to clean up after their games. Children should be trained early to work. Many mothers lack concentration or brain organisation. They do things in a haphazard manner, and without thought. Such women are always tired. The brain should be trained to save the body, and to help to preserve order in the home. Mrs. Ball explained the Business-side of Housekeeping. She showed how accounts should be kept in the various parts of the home, in order that each might have its proper apportionment of the family income. All business transacted in the home should be written down, and kept for future reference. Looking back, helps THE APRIL CONFERENCE. 319 one to plan ahead. Whenever travelling is done by the family, a careful account of expenditures is invaluable for future reference. The man and wife should co-operate in the planning of the home budget. They should be equally interested in the income, and in the expenditures. In those homes where money is a source of irritation, lack of business methods is usually the cause. The chief objection to the budget system is that it takes too much time. Mrs. Ball declared that where accounts are properly and accurately kept, it takes only three or four minutes each day to carry on the system. The results of the budget system are peace of mind and contentment for all the family. At the close of this session, the assembly adjourned to the Oregon Short Line depot, to visit the Demonstration Train from the Agricultural College, which was side-tracked for inspection. MUSIC. One of the pleasant features of the Conference was the beautiful music which was furnished so liberally by talented musicians. Following are the numbers that were given Violin solo, Romania Hyde, accompanied by Prof. J. J. McClellan Soprano solo Miss Lillie Shipp Soprano solo Mrs. Mabel P. Kirk Soprano solo Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward Soprano solo Master Leo Neibaur Soprano solo Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley Soprano solo Phyllis Pugsley Soprano solo Miss Margaret Dusenberry LUNCHEON. During the noon hours of the three meeting days, light luncheon was served the visitors on the 4th floor of the Bishops' Building by the General Board. CANTATA—GRANITE STAKE. On Wednesday, April 5th, the Granite stake Relief Society repeated its splendid cantata. RECEPTION AT UNIVERSITY. On Monday, April 10, a reception was given by the University of Utah to the Relief Society delegates. Six hundred of our workers called at the University between the hours of 3 and 6. They were served with delicious refreshments, and were escorted through the art gallery, where the Utah State Art Exhibit has recently been placed. As the conference visitors left the City, expressions were heard on every side, that this was the most interesting and valuable conference we have yet held. Granite Stake Relief Society Cantata. The Granite Stake Relief Society gave so unique and so charming an entertainment on their Annual Day, that they were invited by the General Board to repeat the whole program on the evening of April 5th, that our visiting stake officers might attend in a body as the guests of our Board. So inspiring and original was the conception, so pleasing and successful were the results, that our readers will be glad to hear the whole story. The original inspiration came to the President of the stake, Mrs. Leonora Taylor Harrington, about a year ago, when she called her workers together and asked them to prepare an entertainment that should be descriptive of the origin and growth of the Relief Society. Many ideas were suggested, but the plan of writing a cantata, to be accompanied by a set of historic tableaux to be given by each ward, was finally adopted. We give here the program PROGRAM ANNIVERSARY DAY. 1. Selection Orchestra Invocation. 2. Cantata, "The Opened Door"...Relief Society Organisation. Words, written and arranged by Lucy M. Green Music composed by Ida H. White and Lucy M. Green. 1 The Story Mrs. Louise Y. Robinson 2. Organ Prelude, "Darkness" Ida H. White 3. Chorus, "For behold, darkness shall cover the earth"... Relief Society Choir 4. Chorus, "The Lord Shall Arise" Choir 5. Solo, Soprano, "Arise, Shine, for Thy Light is Come"... Mrs. Luella F. Sharp 6. Solo, Contralto, "The Key is Turned"...Miss Violet Felkins 7. Trio (double), "With Heavenly Inspiration" Mrs. Myrtle Doelle, Miss Annie Woodbury, Johanna Goebel, Miss Pearl White, Miss Theresa Horne, Violet Felkins 8. Solo and Chorus, "Blessed is he that considereth the poor" Mrs. Sharp and Choir 9. Soprano Recit., "Kindness, Love, Charity" Mrs. Luella F. Sharp 10. Duet, "Gentle Words" Mrs. Myrtle Doelle, Miss Annie Woodbury 11. Duet, "The Glory of God is Intelligence" Miss Johanna Goebel, Annie Woodbury 322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. 12. Chorus, "Blessed are They" Choir 13. Chorus, "Song of Rejoicing" Choir Mrs. Ida H. White, Organ. Miss Edith Horne, Piano. Mrs. Lucy M. Green, Director. Recitation Mrs. George Goff Ladies' Quartette, Mrs. Ida White, Pearl White, Theresa Horne, Violet Felkins. Tableau. 1. The First Relief Society Waterloo Ward 2. Five Presidents, 1843 to 1916, Emma Smith, E. R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba Smith, Emmeline B. Wells Farmers Ward 3. Woman's Greatest Mission, "Motherhood" Wilford Relief Society Activities. 4. The Teachers' "Musical Tableau" East Mill Creek 5. The Wheat Gathering Miller 6. Relief Society Nurses Parley's 7. Art Sugar 8. Genealogy Emerson 9. "Saving the Babies" Richards 10 Relief Society Aiding the Nations Burton 11. A Twentieth Century Relief Society Forest Dale 12. Watch for last tableau (something good) Mrs. Mary M. Silver, Ellen R. Clark, Eliz. Allan Dancing. The words of the cantata illustrate the thought of the author in placing before the hearers the processional history of this greatest of all of women's movements. The music was exceptionally good. When it is remembered that it was prepared by two women who have had but the most elementary training in music, and little in harmony and composition, the whole cantata is a marvel of achievement. The numbers were all attractive and melodic, while the rendition was superior in every sense. Sister Green, who handled the baton, showed herself a musician of great native ability. The orchestra was a pleasing feature of the work and the white-robed choir of ninety voices, of whom forty-eight were grandmothers, was a delightful vision. Professor B. Cecil Gates, who attended the entertainment for the purpose of hearing the cantata, expressed unusual pleasure at the rendition and at the music itself. He stated that it was a remarkable achievement, the music being melodic and gracefully conceived, and as a type of the old-fashioned and simple cantata form, the piece merited much praise, and he could recommend it to all our local choirs. GRANITE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CANTATA. 323 The leader and author of the cantata, Lucy May Hilton Green, was born with a love of music and especially Church and sacred music. From earliest childhood she was in the Sunday School choirs and naturally graduated into the Church choirs. She was born in England, married to Thomas E. Green, in 1901. They have one son. She joined the Church in Glasgow, Scotland, and at the age of 15 was set apart as secretary of the Relief Society of Glasgow. She led the singing and when out with the elders helped in their street meetings. She was secretary and chorister of Jordan stake Primary Board for two years, and has LUCY MAY HILTON GREEN. IDA HORNE WHITE. acted in every one of the organisations. She was a singer in the Salt Lake Temple Choir for years. She has had some vocal training and piano lessons in her early teens, but has always been singing in Church choirs and oratorio societies. She came to Utah in 1897. She has been chorister of the Granite stake Relief Society for eleven years. Mrs. Ida Horne White, who composed the music, assisted by Sister Green, has also been engaged in musical matters since her childhood. She was organist in the Primary when quite a child, and was ward organist for over twelve years, when she was called as the organist of the Relief Society of Granite stake. She studied piano with Mrs. Agnes Dahlquist Beckstrand, of this 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. city, and had some elementary harmony and piano lessons with Professor Alfred M. Durham of the Murdock Academy. She also had vocal lessons from Madam Swenson. The wonder is not that women could produce such work, but that in spite of all their many cares and burdens and with so few opportunities, these sisters have persisted in their struggle for achievement and have succeeded. The story of the development of the Relief Society was told by Mrs. Louie Y. Robinson, whose recital was interesting and whose manner was dignified and appealing. The story showed that the lady had spent a great deal of time and effort in securing her facts and items, and her share of the program was indeed one of the most important parts. The tableaux were artistically conceived and most beautifully developed. They certainly surpassed anything of the kind ever given locally. We thought the one on genealogy was the best of them all, yet others preferred different ones, and when all were so good it would be invidious to make decisions. We trust our sisters everywhere will appreciate this suggestion for the development of our musical and artistic growth. THE CROSS. I made the cross myself, whose weight Was later laid on me; This thought is torture, as I climb Up life's steep Calvary. To think my own hand drove the nails, I sang a merry song, And chose the heaviest wood I had To make it firm and strong. If I had guessed, if I had dreamed Its weight was meant for me, I would have made a lighter cross To bear up Calvary. —Selected. Beyond the Portals. Laura Moench Jenkins. A joyful commotion pervaded the atmosphere, throughout the mansion, where dwell the unborn spirits, who are waiting to assume mortality and become daughters of Eve. Every face beamed with happiness, as the door opened to admit the heavenly Mother-Queen of queens. Hers was the embodiment of perfect womanhood, and as she gazed on her spirit children, mother love was seen in all its ardour and purity. But there was the reflection of another emotion in that beautiful countenance and one could read at a glance, that the heavenly Mother was no stranger to grief. Ah, no, the annals of heaven chronicled her anguish when her princely son Lucifer rebelled against his allwise and eternal Father, leading with him one third of her spirit children. Oh, struggling mortals hoping, trusting and fearing—be not deceived think not that in the world of Immortality, sorrow is unknown, for the heart of the great Father is scarred by poignant pangs, and even the angels weep. "Greetings, my daughters." Her voice was as musical as the zephyr of the early morn. "My soul is thrilled with pleasure as I look on your lovely face. Would that I might keep you with me always gladly would I bear the burdens of mortality for you all, but that would make futile the plans of your kind and gracious Father, who desires our children to become gods and goddesses, with the opportunity of eternal progression. It has been decided in the Council, by the Father, that I shall choose from your numbers, those whom I shall send to earth. Elohelia and Dorcia, 'tis your turn to go. Come with me to my chamber there will I equip; you for your mission to earth." Farewells were spoken, and soon two lovely maidens, from out the vast assembly knocked at the sanctum of the queen Mother. The door was opened by her own hand. "Enter, daughters," requested her melodious voice, "I am waiting for you." Radiant were their faces as they stood before her to receive their commissions. "Choose from my gifts those which you desire to take with you to earth. "Elohelia, thou art the elder; thy choice is first." Silence for a moment—each stood in deep meditation. "Speak, Elohelia! Make known your desires, my daughter." 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Encouraged by those gentle tones, Elohelia advanced lovingly to her side. "Mother, dearest!" she exclaimed, "give unto me the gift of integrity and love that I may carry joy to the home where I shall enter and be made welcome." "Thine it shall be, daughter, and thy home shall be amongst the chosen seed of Israel. Thou shalt be both wise and good. Thy words shall bear eternal truths to the hearts of thy brethren and sisters sojourning upon the earth." "Dorcia, speak thy wish." "Music is my choice, most generous mother let me sing to; your children on earth, the strains we have heard from your voice, in our own lovely home in heaven," replied Dorcia. "Sing, my child, sing," granted the mother, "and thy melodies shall bring comfort to the broken-hearted, and draw the wayward to the better life. But thy going into a gifted line must be dependent on thy future mother's choice. Not all my earth-daughters are true to their covenants. But I will do my best." "And now, my daughters, forget not the duty you owe to your brethren and sisters who are waiting here in the spirit world, for the opportunity you now have, to enter the world your Father has formed, and receive material bodies, without which, there is for them no advancement." She then beckoned to her side two mature spirits, women who had been awaiting her pleasure in another part of the room. "Mary!" As she spoke, a woman advanced, in whose noble face lines of experience were plainly visible. "In thy guardian care I place thy sister Elohelia; thy earthly career has prepared thee for the trust. Leave her not, I charge thee, until her spirit returns to my presence." "Sarah!" Another woman of mature years stepped forward. "I entrust Dorcia unto thee. Guard her footsteps through life, at its finish report to me. In the world of sin and sorrow, my daughters, protect your sisters, comfort them in the sufferings and afflictions of mortality, whisper words of wisdom when reason's voice is still. Go now, my daughters. Adieu! Adieu!" Transmitted on ethereal wings, four personages soon stood at earth's massive portals, awaiting permission to cross the Bridge of Life suspended o'er the great chasm called "Death," connecting mortality with immortality. Passwords were exchanged with angel sentries, and the little party entered earth's uttermost boundary. "Now, my sisters," softly spoke the voice of guardian angel Mary, "our ways must part. Elohelia, and Dorcia, we your guardian angels, will lead you whither you are to go and guide; you through your lives, as our Mother hath commanded; but BEYOND THE PORTALS. 327 should you meet on earth, you will be strangers. God speed you both." "God speed!" they replied, and each, under the guidance of her angel protectress, took her separate course. In her pretty little sitting room sat Helen Maxwell, leisurely embroidering a piece of creamy white flannel. Her face wore an expression of perfect happiness and contentment. Six months had passed since she had come to make her home in this cosy cottage, the bride of Edwin Maxwell. Suddenly footsteps were heard on the porch and her friend Sylvia Gardiner bounded in. "So here you are, Helen! I looked for you on the porch. How well you look in your new cap! No wonder Edwin thinks his wife so charming. Sakes alive! Why are you embroidering flannel on a hot day? O Helen what a dear little baby skirt.! Is it possible you are going to need this? No wonder you are so contented in here by yourself." Sylvia dropped dreamily into a rocker by Helen's side. "O Sylvy, I'm so glad you came. I have wanted you to know, but I hardly liked to tell you. It is a very new hope I have, but very lovely," said Helen, modestly. "You will make a lovely little mother, Helen, but it seems so strange, and yet I have often pictured you with a baby in your arms. But I must go I just ran in for a minute to let you know; that I am soon to be married. You see, I came to tell you my secret and surprised yours. Ha! ha!" And Sylvia laughed merrily. "O Sylvy!" exclaimed the youthful matron, "I am so pleased. Of course, Frank Barton is the happy man, and he's such a fine young man you cannot help but be happy." "Well, I have told my news, now I must be going. I have an appointment this evening." And Sylvia sprang lightly to her feet. "Oh, don't be in a hurry," remonstrated her friend. "I must! Indeed I must! So, an revoir!" and away tripped the happy girl through the open door before Helen could make reply. The embroidery lay untouched in her lap, and she sat for some time, lost in reflection. "Six o'clock," she cried, in alarm, "how the afternoon has flown! Edwin will be here in just one-half hour to supper. I must lay my work away and commence at once." With a gentle caress, she folded the little article she had been embroidering so lovingly, laid it away and hastened to the kitchen to prepare the evening meal that the tired, hungry young husband might find 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the usual tempting repast in readiness when he returned from his daily labours. The table was soon daintily laid for two, and the stalwart form of Edwin Maxwell stood in the doorway. The young wife flew to her husband's embrace, but the two personages who were so near to them both, they saw not. "This woman is to be your mother, Elohelia," quoth Mary, as the two invisible beings entered the Maxwell kitchen, "and this is your father." "O Mary!" joyfully exclaimed Elohelia, "I know them both; they are the companions I loved so well in our spirit home, before they went away to earth." "They are the same, dear child, and will love you on earth as they loved you in heaven," replied the older woman. "O Mary may I kiss them both as they sit here together," ! cried Elohelia softly. "Certainly, my dear, but they will never realise it. When you enter your body, in a few short months, you will be able to caress them as they do each other now." "How happy I shall be to have a body," exclaimed Elohelia. "Mary, you had a body once, did you not?" "Yes," replied the woman quietly. "Where is it now?" queried Elohelia. "My body has returned to the elements from whence it was taken, there to remain, until the time comes for me to receive it again," the older personage replied. "Can I remain with my mother until the time comes for me to receive my body?" again questioned the girl to be. "Yes, dear," granted the protectress, "you must be here within her body all the time, but while she may feel your presence, she will never know just how you look until you have left your home in her body." Months passed. Helen Maxwell bore her suffering, as only a patient, expectant mother can. There was always with her, however, an invisible presence which breathed comfort and happiness to her soul, even in her most miserable hours. At length, the time had come for her deliverance, and she lay upon her bed, her lovely face drawn with pain and suffering. By her side stood the young husband, his face tense and set. O'er the bed, unseen by mortal eyes, hovered a personage, who constantly appealed to the Father in heaven, in behalf of the sufferer there. "Oh, why must my coming into the world cause a mother so much suffering?" thought the guardian angel. But instantly she answered her own question: "'Tis the punishment for sin, placed upon all the daughters of Eve. But my lovely Elohelia BEYOND THE PORTALS. 329 will bring her joy to atone for what she is now enduring that she may live upon the earth. And now, Elohelia will see my face no more but she must remember that I am with her always even unto the end," sweetly whispered guardian angel Mary to herself as the last agony passed, and the child was born into the world. Born into a home where love, peace and righteousness prevailed, and where the baby was welcomed as an angel from heaven, which indeed Elohelia really was. She had her wish and love and service would be her portion. It was a pleasant afternoon in early summer. The large elms in front of the Carlin mansion cast a delightful shade over the lawns and shrubberies. A soft breeze from the west fanned perfume through the air as it gently frolicked with the roses. Two humming-birds were noisily playing at hide and seek, through the honeysuckle vine, which grew over one side of the north veranda, where young Mrs. Carlin reclined languidly in a hammock. Ill and despondent she looked, her dishevelled appearance a sorry contrast to her beautiful surroundings. She had suddenly been taken ill at the ball, the evening before, while dancing the young husband hurried her home with; all speed and hastily summoned a physician, who applied restoratives, and advised absolute quiet and rest. He had called again this morning, but his diagnosis had brought forth strong resentment from his patient. "I do not wish to become a mother," she had cried, petulantly when he told her of her condition. "Can you, will you not do anything for me?" "What do you mean?" he enquired sternly, and then added, more gently "I will do all I can to improve your health and alleviate your suffering. I can do no more. You have no reason for dreading motherhood you are young, and in perfect health, and; financially able to support a large family in comfort. I am certain nothing would add more to the happiness of Dwight Carlin, than to become a father." "A father indeed!" she exclaimed bitterly. "What of me? You men are absolutely brutal what do you care for the suffering; of my sex if you become fathers? I will never go through it, Dr. Milton! I never will." "You will feel differently, Edith, when you talk this over with Dwight," he replied quietly, preparing to take his departure, "you are unnerved now, absolute rest is what you need. I will call again tomorrow and I think you will be feeling better. Good morning!" "Good by, Dr. Milton! but don't trouble about calling again, until I send for you," she called after his retreating form. "As you please," he replied quietly, and was gone. 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. His office was in the same building as Dwight Carlin's law office. As he passed the open door, seeing the young husband alone, he stepped in for a moment's conversation. Dwight must have been pleased with what the doctor told him, for his face was wreathed in smiles. "Give her every attention, doctor," he said, feelingly "remember, I shall spare nothing to bring her and the babe through safely. I am not very busy this morning, and my machine is in the street. I'll just take a spin home before long and cheer her up a bit." "It would be a good idea, Dwight she seemed somewhat; despondent when I left," the doctor replied. So it happened in a remarkably short time after Doctor Milton left, Dwight Carlin stood by the couch on which his wife lay. "Why, Edith, are you very ill?" he enquired anxiously, as the sound of muffled sobs met his ear, from the pillow in which her face was completely buried. A violent start, and a tear-stained face was suddenly turned toward him. "O Dwight, how you startled me Whatever brought you! home? It is not noon yet." "No, it isn't noon I took a run home to see you, and you; don't seem to want me I am sorry I interrupted your grief," he; replied gently, as he seated himself at her side. "I came to talk with you awhile; won't you let me kiss you or hold your hands?" "You may hold my hand if you like, but I'm not fit to kiss. Let me go and bathe my face," she answered, partially rising. "No, no, be still, Edith Dr. Milton told me you must have perfect rest—I love you just as you are;" and he soothingly drew her back to her pillow. "That wasn't all he told you I can tell by the way you look,"— she sobbed impatiently. "O Dwight, surely you do not wish me to bear children, and so soon after our marriage? If you do, you do not love me no man who loves his wife would desire to bring; such suffering upon her. It is disgusting to think about it." Dwight Carlin's countenance fell. "Why, Edith," he said quietly, "think of the pleasure a babe would bring us I cannot imagine a greater joy than to have a; little daughter, just like you, and have her inherit your famous talent, and sing as you do, dearest!" "Dwight Carlin! I did not marry you with any intention of bearing children, at least not for several years. I want time to enjoy life a while. I do not care for children. I love my singing and my clubs and social life. It would simply ruin my voice and my form. Madam Contour told me nothing was more injurious to a woman's form as well as her voice." The young man dropped the hand he had been holding caressingly the look of loving sympathy in his face changed to stern; BEYOND THE PORTALS. 331 disapproval. "Edith," he said coldly, "I wish you had told me this before we were married." "You never asked me, or I should have done so. You are selfish and unfeeling, or you would not wish to see me undergo such an ordeal," and she burst into another fit of weeping. "You know I have no desire to see you suffer, Edith. I have done everything I could to make your life happy since our marriage. Since I first began to love you, I have pictured in my mind a little daughter, very much like yourself who would inherit; your voice, and fill our home with her glorious music. I have fancied you with a son of mine, a lovely babe in your arms, and the mother light in your eyes." "I will not listen to your selfish talk! These may have been your old-fashioned ideals, but they were never mine, and all you can say will not change my views. I tell you, once and for all your hopes will never be realised," defiantly spoke the young wife. Her husband rose to his feet, the lovelight which shone in his eyes when he entered the room was gone. "I must go," he said simply "don't wait dinner for me.; I shall dine at the club," and he left the room as suddenly as he had entered it. "Well," she muttered, "to be alone suits me today. I can think better. To become a mother now, as we are having such a good time—the price is too great. I will not! There must be some escape I will find it. Mother has always said she doesn't want her daughter broken down, and forced to have children as fast as she did." Edith spent the morning on the couch and her luncheon was served in the same place but as the afternoon grew warmer, she; dressed and hurriedly left the house. A swift walk brought her to the home of Mrs. Lomond, and as that lady was alone, her errand was soon stated. Mrs. Lomond hesitated before selling the medicine. "You know, Mrs. Carlin, the law would handle me if this became known, and I would really rather not let you have it. I will tell you right now, while it never fails, it is dangerous, and unless carefully used, might cost your life. You are too far on your journey for safety in the use of this strong medicine." "No one shall ever know, Mrs. Lomond, no one but you and myself. I have reasons of my own for wanting no one else to know. I will take every precaution with the remedy, using it exactly as you tell me. Don't be silly you sell it all the time.; There is no life till the child is born. I have heard you and many other women say that over and over. You may set your price. I will pay just what you ask," eagerly promised the visitor. 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The older woman sat for a moment in a study. She had determined never to sell her medicine again. She was getting old, and did not like the feeling of guilt, which always stole over her after its sale but today had found her in need of money; she; was behind twenty-five dollars on her rent and was looking for her landlord at any moment this woman was rich she had told; —her to set her price—would she be willing to pay enough to meet this bill? She would ask her. "Mrs. Carlin, although I am not a religious woman I know enough to correct your error when you say there is no life in the child till after birth. There is always life and spirit from the moment of conception. Your husband's religion has taught the world that truth. I had never intended to sell my prescription again, but I have twenty-five dollars to raise. If you will pay me enough to pay my bill, the remedy is yours." "But twenty-five dollars is a big sum. I never paid such a price for anything before in my life," said Edith, in a surprised tone. "Perhaps not," acquiesced the woman, "but it is worth it, and unless you pay what I ask, you shall not have it. I do not care to make the sale, and unless you give me the twenty-five dollars, you must go without." "I have not the amount with me and I do not wish to give you a check. Have you the remedy in the house?" Edith enquired. "I have not, and shall not give you the medicine; only the prescription. You must purchase your own medicine and take your own responsibility. Go home return in an hour with the; money, and the prescription is yours." Mrs. Carlin arose and left the house without further comment. "It's an awful price," she told herself, as she walked slowly homeward, "but I must have it, cost what it may and I will; Dwight gave me twenty-five dollars to pay Hannah yesterday I; have not given it and Hannah can wait until I can get her the money some other way." In an hour she again appeared at Mrs. Lomond's home the; money was paid and she was soon again wending her way homeward this time she carried in her hand-bag a two ounce bottle; containing a dark liquid and a small box, in which were twelve tiny black tablets. Edith hurried home, anxious to conceal her package, fearing detection, perhaps Tonight she would take the medicine and by morning— When morning dawned, the mistress of Carlin Mansion was violently ill. Dr. Milton received a hasty summons, and before BEYOND THE PORTALS. 333 noon, a tiny, half-developed girl babe had been born into the world and with only a few gasps passed out of it again.; As the doctor was leaving he met the young husband in the hallway. "Dwight," he said uncertainly, "there is something I feel I should tell you. Come with me a moment." "Dwight, prepare yourself for a blow circumstances connected with this case prove to me that your wife, herself, is responsible for the premature birth, and consequent death, of that helpless babe." Dwight Carlin stiffened as if the surgeon had dealt him a blow. "What proofs have you, doctor?" he enquired, sternly. The physician drew from his pocket a vial containing a dark liquid, and a small box, in which lay nine tiny black tablets. "These I found partially concealed in your wife's dressing table. A servant girl told me she saw her mistress take both liquid and tablets before retiring last night also, that she brought; her a tea cup half full of hot water in which she dropped thirty drops from this bottle she counted the drops, she said, as they; fell from the dropper." After a moment's pause the doctor continued "The name of the drug, of which these tablets are composed, and the grain, are given on the box; they alone would have done the work, though not quite so quickly as with the assistance of the liquid in this bottle. "When I made my examination yesterday morning, both mother and child were in a normal condition had things remained; as they were, three more months, and the child might have lived, and the mother come through with improved health. As a result of this, the child is dead the mother has barely escaped with her; life, and is far from being out of danger yet." The usually self-possessed young lawyer sank into a chair, a deadly faintness seemed suddenly to have seized him that the; doctor was right he felt certain, he knew the attitude of his wife from their conversation the morning before. The helpless, appealing look in the tiny, lifeless face of his babe rose vividly before him, accusing its mother, the woman he had loved with all the strength of his noble manhood, of murder of the blackest dye she had robbed this child; her child of life. — — "Come, Dorcia make haste, child we must leave this world! ; ; it is too wicked for such as you," gently urged guardian angel Sarah of her charge, as together they stood over the body of the new-born babe, as it lay on a small round table, outside of its mother's room, wrapped in a snowy sheet. 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "O Sarah," wailed the spirit Dorcia, "let me have one more look at my tiny body ere we depart. I love it so, it is all I ever shall have, it is mine for I entered it, and I know our Father in heaven some day will permit me to receive it again. Hark there is the nurse now and my father is with her. I could! have loved him and made him so happy had my mother permitted me to remain. See! he is weeping. My father loved me. He says they are to wrap my body in nice white linen, and he will have me buried in the family burial plot. There, they are gone. Strange they do not see us. Come, let us take one last look at my mother before we go," and Dorcia placed her hand in that of the older woman as they glided into the sick room, where Edith Carlin lay in a half stupor. "I shall kiss her goodbye, Sarah; I love her; why would she not allow me to remain with her?" The weeping Dorcia bent softly, and touched the pale forehead of her mother, with her spirit lips. "See! she has awakened, Sarah," she cried wistfully. "Yes, child," answered the woman, "her act has placed her so near death's door that she felt the pressure of your lips. Come, now, we must hasten on." "I wish one last look at my father, then I will go," pleaded the child. "He is in the library," replied her companion. Swiftly and silently the spirit woman and child glided into the room where Dr. Milton and Dwight Carlin sat. "How ill my father looks, his face is as pale as my mother's," sighed the little girl. "Yes, Dorcia, the doctor has just told him of your mother's terrible sin, but we can do nothing here, and we should be on our way," softly again urged Sarah. "Farewell, my father, farewell, farewell!" and weeping as they went, two beings invisible to human eyes took their leave of the Carlin mansion forever. Travelling with speed known only to immortality, soon they stood again at earth's huge, dark portals, awaiting permission to return to their spirit home. "Sarah," cried Dorcia, "see our heavenly Mother!" "Ah, wherefore art thou here?" enquired the heavenly Mother as they met. "She who was to have been my earthly mother cut short my life, she would not receive me, and I have returned with my gift to our Mother in heaven," mournfully answered Dorcia.
Plain Gossip. By Mrs. Grundy. I was sitting with Caroline trying to study out what this here Relief Society would be doing next to keep us on the buzz, when she up and says, says she "D'you get on to that lesson they give us on the Ideal Home?" "Yes, I did," I says, "and I don't take no stock," I says, "in what that there teacher tells 'bout man being the head of the house 'cause he's got more wisdom and virtue than the woman has. And I just snorted, I was so mad when I thought about it." And she says, says she, "Don't get your Irish up over a little thing like that for unless I miss my guess they's more truth than poetry in that same saying." And I snapped back, "D'you mean to tell me that men is more virtuous than women?" "I didn't mean to tell you nothing," she says, says she, "unless you keep your little shirt on and let's talk it out friendly like." Then I ast her again, "Well now, tell me right out. You don't mean for a minute that men is more virtuous than women?" "Maybe not," she says, says she, "when you lump men together like that." "What do you call virtue?" I says. "I call virtue," she says, says she, "right living in most every direction. Do you ever take time to think?" she says, in her most cutting way. "Well, just take time right now, for the matter of doing a little thinking is a powerful healthy thing for women to do and it is what mighty few on 'em do anyway." Then I snorted again and she could see my dander was rising higher than a kite. "But that's not answering my question," says I. "Well then," she says, says she, "just you answer your own question by answering some of mine. Would you say that a man who never had a temptation to drink a glass of beer or whiskey had just as much of the virtue of holding himself in as the man who has been marked with the love of whiskey and just longs for it all the time and yet, don't touch it? More'n that don't you kind of pride yourself on the fact that you top me in virtue 'cause you love tea and don't drink it, when it's no trouble for me to stop drinking it for I never wanted it? Can't you see that, you old blind mole?" "Well, yes," I says, "maybe so, but what's that got to do with virtue?" "I'm coming to that," she says, says she. "Virtue means lots 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. of things besides just keeping the seventh commandment, but we'll come down to cases and talk straight about being chaste but you answer me another question. Do you think your little gal of six years old who never had any temptation to be unchaste is more virtuous and beats her brother of twenty-five who has been on a mission where he has run up against piles of women who would be mighty glad to lead him from the path of virtue?" "Well, but," says I, "President Brigham Young said once, and I heard him, that there'd be no bad women if there weren't no bad men." "Course they wouldn't," she says, says she, "'cause women's just naturally good and don't have to exercise half the bridle on themselves that men do to be just common decent. Just let me tell you one thing, Marthy Ann, and you write it down in your little account book, in big letters. There's nothing will keep a man virtuous except the fear of God." "What do you mean," says I, madder still, "that all the men except the men in our Church can't be virtuous?" And she says, says she: "I don't say nothing of the kind. Men all over the earth who feel God deep down are scared to do wrong and 'cause of that fear they sometimes hold in from doing that which nature prompts them all the time to do. Men's prompted considerable to break the seventh commandment, and women ain't usually much troubled that way 'less they're in peculiar circumstances. Little gals are shielded and guarded by their mothers and fathers and protected by their brothers till they are married and then their husband gives them all the affection they want besides protecting them from other men. You see, Marthy Ann, gals who go wrong usually go wrong because they want pretty clothes, but men go wrong 'cause they're just driven by nature to go wrong. And when boys and men keep from going wrong it's 'cause they fear God and want to keep His commandments, for they are just tempted to go wrong right along, week in the week out, year in and year out. And I say and so does any thinking person, that men who keep themselves from going wrong when they are tempted all the time as they are, are more virtuous than women who don't see much temptations during their lifetimes—not in that way, anyway. Men and women are just made as they are made, that's all." "Well, but," says I, "you know as well as I do," says I, "the reason why women are under men on this earth is 'cause Eve went and ate that fruit and coaxed Adam to do likewise." "O, shucks," she says, says she, "ain't you got no more sense than to think that our Father would just wilfully make a man to boss and a woman to mind 'cause they stole an apple and ate it? Why Marthy Ann, I am surprised at you not having more in your think tank than to bring forward such a fool reason. Why, PLAIN GOSSIP. 337 that story of the Garden of Eden is just a mere telling of a fact that's as eternal and elemental as the Wasatch mountains yes,—and a lot more so. What fool nonsense you'd teach if you tried to make people think that man's place in the household and in life and woman's place also was just fixed for this life only. I don't believe 'Mormonism' in any such a way. You just go home, Marthy Ann, and contemplate, if you can, really contemplate, meditate, consider, think, study it out and you will find that man stands at the head of his house if he is a right, good, pure man, not because he wears pants or 'cause he refused to take the apple Satan begged him to, but he stands there 'cause he is got more wisdom and the virtue of self-control better developed than his wife has and that's not saying that she's not his equal either. 'Cause the bishop stands at the head of his counsellors and has the deciding voice is not proof that the counsellors ain't his equal. You'll find that he has been picked out 'cause they think he is a little wiser and got a little more self-control than belongs to the two brethren they make his counsellors." "But I don't care," I says, says I, "I don't believe, and you can't make me, that my husband's more virtuous than I am. I never looked at another man crosswise in my life and never wanted to." "Well," she says, says she, "maybe this here point is a little too fine for you to see, but you go home and ask your husband if the reason why he never looked crosswise at any gal was 'cause he never wanted to."
THE SEEING HEART. By Maud Baggarley. If thou a gift of Deity wouldst ask Then, for discernment pray! For he who hath the seeing heart, Like miracle of day, Doth glad the fainting soul of each Upon Life's vast highway.
A Prayer for Perfectness of Life. Rock of my strength, my Saviour, I beseech thee How I, my children's souls may feed Oh, let thy spirit teach me! Oh, grant me faith, and patience, and humility To rear them in the right Grant me ability. Dear Saviour, thou who hast at heart our progress, Oh, give me power humanity to bless, To even assist in thought, or inspiration That they may desire and aspire For future exaltation. Thou, the great, mighty Fountain Of all intelligence Through the eternal Father, help me to fully sense All of my imperfections, and to overcome Evil and to live a life of perfectness In my earthly home. Oh, give thy children power to overcome temptation; To live each day a perfect day Of their earthly probation. Fill us with faith divine, help us to be pure, That we may all our earthly trials Cheerfully endure. Saviour, Redeemer, grant us all sweet charity! even among Thine elect find this gift, Almost a rarity. Help us put forth a mighty effort the world to save Bless us with dauntless courage Assist us to be brave. That we may be forgiving, long-suffering, and kind Even through thy Holy Spirit, To receive sweet peace of mind. Oh, may we ever seek to upraise the downtrodden, The oppressed That they with us may enter thy haven of blissful rest. And when our final summons comes, Whatever else may betide, May we with our own life's work Be perfectly satisfied. Annie G. Lauritzen. SHORT CREEK, ARIZONA.
The Prince of Ur Homespun. While the king thus strove with his trembling attendants, a cortege was approaching the gardens and courts of the Ziggarut. A train of white-robed women, some of them bearing baskets of fruits and flowers, others playing with deft fingers, the lady's instrument—the zither—while still others sang with rhythmic chant the hymnal to the goddess Ishtar the gaudy and yet moving picture was making its slow way through the streets "Room room, for the royal Neophyte of the Goddess Mylitta," cried the herald. After the dancing and singing women, came six chariots bearing in their gilded seats many lovely damsels, all unveiled and rose-garlanded and in the last gorgeously wrought chariot came the Semmite princess Iscah, who, like her attendants was robed in white, but over her head and face was a misty veil covering her from crown to foot, and thus shrouded and her feet buried in a bed of white rose petals, she sat with proud disdain. "Room room for the royal Neophyte" cried the public heralds. The crowd grumbled and cursed as they were pushed mercilessly off the broad street leading to the Ziggarut, to permit the procession to pass along its way. At its head walked a huge black eunuch, and behind him strode a dozen more whose insignia of the House of Terah gave them right of way over the most crowded of thoroughfares. Their passage was slow, and the chariot drivers had trouble in curbing their fiery steeds. "It is the lady Sarai," cried a shepherd prince. "Nay, not so," replied a Damascene, evidently a stranger in the streets of Ur. "How comest thou to know so much about the ladies of the House of Terah?" asked the shepherd jeeringly. "I know but little. But this I know, the princess Sarai carries her head proudly, not haughtily." "Then thou hast more than passing acquaintance with these great women of our city, stranger, for not one in ten thousand of the citizens or soldiers of Ur, could make me so fine a distinction. I am persuaded you are right. This must be the lady Iscah, for she is the moon, while our queen Sarai is the sun in full splendour of youth, beauty, and attraction." Eleizer was silent, his mind busy with what he had seen. Should he discover this matter to Abram who was confined within the palace walls? Or should he keep his own counsel and find 340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. out for himself the destination of the lady who had but now passed on her public way to the great royal fete of the goddess Mylitta. It was a shameless avowal of her apostasy, that he knew. But how much was he justified in telling to Abram? "Room room for the royal neophyte of the goddess Mylitta," cried the heralds again and again, pushing and crowding the mass of foot passengers into the small side streets or crushing them thickly against the unwindowed walls of the houses along the street. Above them on the housetops, in the falling twilight, were also gathered many curious gazers who were vitally interested also in this startling new development of their royal Petesi's household. What could it mean? Surely not that old Terah had completely joined himself and all his household with the state religion, giving up once for all his quaint old-fashioned notions about a chaste patriarchal home life with its attendant human reliance upon a mysterious One-God who could never be fashioned out of some earthly material for all to see and fear or worship. If Terah's household were converted, then indeed was Ur about to emerge into the most brilliant scene of all its history. For men and women, alike, the rich and the poor, felt the silent restraint put upon them, their motives, and their religious and social orgies by the presence amongst them of a reigning Semmite Satrap who was so antiquated in his religious ideals that he would not even appear at the services in the newly-restored public temple on the hill of Potiphar, but must needs permit his son, the prince Abram, to erect a private Ziggarut in which to offer his own simple and highly primitive sacrifices. Terah, as the Petesi of Ur, had not only been a secret annoyance to all the people through his religious views, as all righteous persons are to a wicked world, but the constant refusal of his gloriously handsome son Abram, and his no less equally fabulously beautiful and wealthy daughter Sarai, to enter into the fast social life of the royal society of Ur, was a constant goad and sting to their own secret, vile ambitions and lustful desires. They felt, as do all abandoned creatures the keenest desire to see this pure and righteous family fall into their own class and become like themselves; but with the inconsistency of human nature, if Abram should change or when the house of Terah did fall or accept the inevitable fate as most of them put it there would be an instant but crushing disappointment it would prove that after all there was no such thing as human integrity and persistent chastity. That this ruin should come to pass was their most passionate longing and their most passionately dreaded climax. The triumph of good is as much hoped for, as it is feared, even by the wicked. "It is said that every man can be bought with a price," said the shepherd prince who had been talking with Eleizer, "and it THE PRINCE OF UR. 341 seems that even royal women only wait to catch a king before giving themselves into the arms of Mylitta." "Thou shalt not speak thus of any of the daughters of Terah. It may be that the Lady Iscah is ignorant of these bestial customs, and but goes in her royal white robes to pay a court visit to the king in his temple courts." "The lady Iscah ignorant? Going to pay a royal visit—alone unattended save with her choicest and handsomest damsels? Out upon ye, Damascene, thou hast not so much acumen as I thought." Eleizer had more than his loyalty would permit him to show. But he would defend till there was no shadow of doubt even; then he would refuse to believe the worst. While they were thus speaking, a magnificent chariot drove up behind them drawn by six coal black horses. The occupant stood behind his driver, his fastidiously ringleted locks falling on his embroidered tunic, his jewelled cane flashing in the sunset, his perfumed robes casting out their trailing odours long after he had passed upon his way, the glittering gold and jewelled fringes upon his priestly robe blinding the gaze of the awe-struck multitude. As he flew by, his chariot wheels billowing this way and that in his swift flight to catch the long procession which was far on its way down the street, a huge black dog, belonging to the shepherd who was talking with Eleizer, sprang out from behind his master's legs and almost flung himself in his fierce bellowing fury upon the body of the glittering chariot. Mardan—for it was he—raised his pliant cane, and with one blow between the eyes, he felled the brute who had thus suddenly assaulted him. But the women on the housetops opposite called out harshly "An omen, an omen!" Mardan cursed them and the dog in voluble Assyrian, but he stayed not in his reckless flight to catch the train of his kinswoman. The chase was successful, and Eleizer saw the Lady Iscah stop, lean over in her seat while Mardan talked earnestly with her, and after a few moments, she gave the signal for her train to wait while Mardan passed them all in his swinging road to the royal Ziggarut. The dog of the shepherd slunk back dizzily to its master, and the man bent eagerly over the bruised head, while he muttered low curses on the head of Mardan for his cruelty to the unfortunate brute. "Dost thou believe in omens?" asked Eleizer, as the shepherd took out some ointment and rubbed the swollen face of his pet, while he plucked a leaf from an acacia tree hanging over 342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the house-wall near, and wiped off the few blood drops on the fracture. "I believe that the devil preserves his imps for purposes best known to himself. I know that men whom dogs hate are not loved by other men, and that is omen enough for me;" for the shepherd was loath to reveal his true Semmite religious status to this stranger. Eleizer said no more, but was quite sure of the man's purpose of possible vengeance as he, too, followed on the road to the courts of the Ziggarut. Eleizer followed the shepherd more slowly. He was determined to discover all that was possible concerning this new departure in the house of Terah. As he sauntered more slowly, he was interested to observe the varied nature of the human traffic about him. The road was now open to all men and women on foot or in chariots they were clad in the linen and woollen vests; of the Assyrian, with the sash about their middle, and their long curled ringlets hanging about their ears thinly-clad children; were there playing and romping with screaming vigour at times, or crying out as children will, when anger or swift mischief prompted a change of tone. Here and there, a few dandies of the richer classes moved in and out, with their heavy perfumes, their jewelled canes, and their elegant seal rings and cylinders slung to their wrists making a picture of varied brilliancy. There was much chatter on the streets concerning the procession which had just passed by. But Eleizer was not a party to any of it, now that the honest shepherd had passed on. Along the lower end of the street came a train of lumbering plowmen bearing on their heads the fruits of their day's labours, and singing their common song of duty and joy as they plodded homeward in the dim twilight: "A heifer am I, to the plough I am yoked, "The plough handle is strong, lift it up, lift it up." While an equally solid mass of women came behind them with their arms filled with the sheaves of their gleaning, and they responded "My knees are marching, my feet are not resting, "With no wealth of my own—grain givest thou me." Eleizer looked at them with the strange wonder that fills every intelligent mind when he sees the dull acceptance of the brute lot of life which sings on its slave-driven way and kneels contentedly while the master adjusts the yoke. Moreover, the great city of Ur was trembling on the brink of mighty moral and spiritual convulsions the great Merodach-Nimrod was, for the; first time in years, within its walls to dedicate the beautiful new or newly-restored temple. And yet, these slavish knots could A HEROINE. 343 take their peaceful way adown the dusty road of life, meeting its problems as supinely as did the crowds of dogs which gathered about them now in mangy droves of snarling opposition to every hindrance on their way. As the dogs snapped and yowled here and there, plunging now through the crowd of yokels, or mingling in a mass of canine fury to settle some contested canine point, the huge, black dog came back towards them with his awkward but swift leaps, and in an instant there was a mingling of yaps and growls, and the masters fell upon the struggling writhing mass of dog-flesh in the dusty road, and together with the soldier's stout axes laid about their ears, the dogs were separated and went whimpering onwards. But the black dog was evidently not through with his work. He trotted away quietly enough but after him leaped a large yellow mastiff, and they disappeared down the curving way that led to the courts of the Ziggarut. The bedlam of dogs yapped after them more slowly. (to be continued.)
A HEROINE. Her face has not the glow which poets sing, With cheeks of red rose hue, Lips that rival all the cherries' red, And eyes of deeply azure blue. Yet might they sing of dark brown hair, That crowns her face so pure and fair. Her eyes speak peace, of dusky brown, Like dusky pools in ocean deep; Where 'neath the surface, pure and calm, The troubled waters softly sleep. For, though her heart is sore and sad, She smiles that others may be glad. Her face a story tells to me, Of battles fought and victories won, Of one who's humbly learned to say, "Thy will, not mine be done." Her soul through all her deep despair Is calmed and soothed by mighty prayer. To sick and troubled homes and hearts, She's carried hope and cheer; Brought joy and peace to orphaned babes, And taught them, God is near, Who rocks upon her faithful breast, Can say with her, God knoweth best. Lucy Burnham.
Home Science Department. Janette A. Hyde. Perhaps there is no food more wholesome, nor even more valuable than a simple salad, when the blood is sluggish and needs refreshing. A succulent salad of some kind should find its way to the table at least once a day. We find it quite necessary, therefore, to recommend, once more, to our readers the advisability of planting a few of the most important and useful of the vegetables to be used in salad making. In nearly any altitude, where we find our people located, the following vegetables can be raised, and will be helpful for salads Cress, lettuce, sorrel, endive, romaine, chicory, escarole (dandelion greens), young beet greens, spinach, celery, cucumbers, and tomatoes. Any of these form the basis for salads, and may be served with pure olive oil, a little lemon juice, or vinegar, paprika (sweet red pepper), and a little salt. Fresh fruits, such as oranges, bananas, peaches, pears, cherries, etc., may also be used with the salad greens. These form a wonderful combination and a healthful change. Green vegetables and fruits are a natural tonic, rich in the much-needed mineral salts, as well as that mysterious substance called vitamines. This substance is now considered one of the most important of food elements. The green vegetables cleanse the blood, stimulate the appetite, and act as a mild laxative, and are more efficacious and natural than using pills, or any artificial spring medicine. Pure olive oil is nourishing food, supplying fat in the best and most easily digested form. It acts also as a laxative. Lemon juice slightly stimulates the liver, and is a better acid for daily use than vinegar. A little Worcestershire sauce, A-1 sauce, catsup, horseradish, grated onion, a few capers, chopped, sweet pepper, etc., may be added to the salad dressing. These all serve to increase the flow of the gastric juices, which is so essential to digestion. Meat, fish, or nut salads should be served with a properly prepared and cooked mayonnaise dressing. This salad has its value as a nourishing food, but should not be used in place of the lighter green vegetable and fruit salads. The more substantial salads serve as a complete luncheon or supper dish, and if served as such, with the proper accompaniment, are enjoyed and easily digested by most people. The green or fruit salad should be served only as a part of, or as a finish to, a meal. Plain salad is always served in Italy with HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 345 the meat course, no potatoes or other vegetable accompanying the meat. The success of salad depends upon the crispness and freshness of the vegetables and fruit to be used also the method of; making the dressing, and the wise choice of dressings for the salad at hand. One cannot be too particular in washing and cleaning the greens to be used, as they are not sterilised by cooking. It is quite essential to keep the vegetables in ice water or in the ice-chest until ready for use, then drain and wipe dry with a clean towel. The standard salad dressings are French, mayonnaise, or cooked dressing of some kind. All others are varieties of these. The boiled dressing is a cheap and inexpensive substitute for mayonnaise. Easter Salad. Ingredients 1 bunch new green asparagus, cooked 1 large orange 1 egg, hard cooked 1 head lettuce French dressing Time: Preparation, 15 minutes. Number served 4 persons. : Have ready the asparagus, which has been carefully cooked, drained and chilled. Cut the orange into four slices, crosswise; remove the pulp, making four orange-skin rings. Divide the asparagus into four portions slip the stalks through the orange; rings, and arrange on individual plates on a bed of crisped lettuce. Pour over French dressing, dust with the egg, chopped very fine, add a sprinkling of chopped parsley. Serve very cold. A good salad to serve with cold ham or tongue for luncheon or supper. Pineapple Dressing. Ingredients 6 tablespoonfuls pineapple juice 3 level tablespoonfuls granulated sugar 1 level tablespoonful butter 2 eggs beaten 1 level tablespoonful cornstarch Time: Preparation, 15 minutes. Number served, 4-6 persons. Mix all ingredients carefully together, and cook over boiling water, stirring constantly, until the mixture is smooth and begins to thicken. At serving time, add three-fourths cupful of cream, whipped. To be used with a fruit salad. 346 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Cream Mayonnaise. To a quantity of stiff mayonnaise, add an equal quantity or less of whipped cream. This dressing should be used the day it is made, and kept in the refrigerator until it is ready to be served. Excellent for chicken, Waldorf or nut salad. French Dressing. Ingredients 1/4 level teaspoonful salt 1/4 level teaspoonful white pepper 1 tablespoonful vinegar or lemon juice 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil Time: Preparation, 5 minutes. Number served 4 persons. : Add the oil to the salt and pepper mix well.; Add the vinegar or lemon juice, beat until thoroughly emulsified. This may be easily and quickly done by shaking in a bottle, and many prefer to do it this way. Chopped chive or a few drops of onion juice, or Worcestershire sauce may be added if desired. Russian Dressing. To one cupful mayonnaise, add one tablespoonful, or more, of tomato catsup and nine olives finely chopped. Strawberry Salad. Ingredients 1 head chicory or escarole 1 box large strawberries 6 slices pineapple (canned) A few chopped pistachio nuts Cream mayonnaise Time Preparation, 30 minutes. : Number served 6 persons. : Wash chicory and crisp in ice-water. Wash and hull berries; stand in refrigerator until cold. Arrange chicory on individual plates, placing a slice of pineapple in the centre of each. Cover pineapple with berries, top with cream mayonnaise, garnish with nuts. If berries are sour, sprinkle lightly with powdered sugar before placing in refrigerator. An excellent luncheon or supper salad. Cooked Dressing. Ingredients. 1/2 level teaspoonful salt 1/4 level teaspoonful paprika 1 level tablespoonful cornstarch HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 347 1/2 cupful cream 1 egg yolk 3 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar, or 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice Time: Preparation, 10 minutes. Number served 4 persons. : Mix the cornstarch with the cream add seasoning cook; ; over boiling water until the mixture thickens, stirring constantly. Add the egg yolk, slightly beaten, and cook a moment longer. Remove from fire, add vinegar, mix well, cool, and it is ready to use. If it is impossible to get cream, use milk, and add one teaspoonful melted butter after dressing is cooked. Roquefort Dressing. Mash a small quantity of Roquefort cheese and stir through a well-made French dressing. Serve on lettuce hearts. Mayonnaise Dressing. Ingredients Yolks of two eggs 1/2 level teaspoonful salt 1/4 level teaspoonful white pepper Lemon juice, 1 tablespoonful, about Vinegar, 1 tablespoonful, about Olive oil, 1 cupful or more Time: Preparation, 20 minutes, about. Number served 6-8 persons, or more. : Have all ingredients and utensils very cold. Put the yolks into a bowl or mayonnaise mixer add salt, pepper mix.; ; Add one teaspoonful vinegar mix again. Now add, drop by drop, ; and beating all the while, sufficient oil to give the desired amount of dressing. As the mixture thickens, alternate with a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar. With care, almost a pint of oil may be used. By following directions carefully this dressing should not curdle. If it does, start again with a clean bowl and another egg yolk. After adding a little vinegar and oil, add, slowly and stirring constantly, the curdled dressing, and the final results will be good.
Ethics. Read at the Granite R. S. Conference by Mrs. Lillian G. Knight. Ethics—the science of human character or more broadly speaking—it is the study of manners and morals. Ethics deals, for instance, with such virtues as truthfulness, honesty and sobriety. Man is said to possess a physical, moral, and spiritual nature. Faith is a spiritual trait. It is often hard to draw the line between ethics and religion. But there is a real difference. The world, in all ages, has set up certain standards of conduct, and has maintained certain virtues. Even the savage has his strict code of morals. He is often more straightly honest, and more rigorously truthful than his educated white brother. People who study ethics take for consideration what might be called the standard virtues: Truth, Wisdom, Benevolence, Love, Honesty, Obedience, Reverence, Knowledge, Patience, Hope, Courage, and Charity. Many modifications of these virtues lead to a study of Mercy, Temperance, Kindness, Gratitude, and such other traits as make the ideal man. All men believe these virtues to be good, and most men practice few or many of them. Men have found that it actually pays, in a business sense, to be honest and truthful. Long experience teaches any person the value of the virtues. No profession of religion is needed to qualify men to practice the virtues. All religions, except the true religion of Jesus Christ, are builded on ethical foundations only. Because men have found that the virtues are eternal, they come finally to exalt the virtues into a whole religion. Go into any of the churches today, and you will hear no doctrines, no religious principles referred to except as the virtues are a part—and a very important part—of their various religions. It is all ethics, ethics, ethics. Our young people, hearing one such sermon, come away feeling that it was all true—then why are not these churches also true, or founded on truth? All worship of God is founded on truth on some truth, a; little truth. For all who name the name of the Lord with reverence and love have a measure of truth and light within them. Then what constitutes the difference between this Church and all other churches in ethics and in religion? It is the priesthood. The power to officiate in the ordinances of the gospel. Men may be truthful, just, kind, chaste, and intelligent, but unless they come in at the door of Christ, they cannot enter his kingdom. The rich young man of the scriptures possessed all the virtues. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 349 The Relief Society has been studying the ethics of Gratitude, Industry, Reverence, and Prudence, but with each lesson has gone some gospel message that fastens the virtue up to the chain which links us to the kingdom of all truth and light. We want not a little truth, nor some truth—but all truth. Not the truths pertaining only to our physical and moral—or ethical—being, but also those truths that concern our spiritual advancement and development. Someone has said that facts unless arranged in proper order and sequence do not constitute truth. So with ethics unless the virtues are held together by the priesthood and are practiced in obedience to true religion, they will not save us. Therefore do we study, practice, and develop, in all the virtues. We want to be honest, chaste, benevolent, and to seek after all truth, holding fast to the Iron Rod.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Eastern States Mission. Mrs. A. W. McCune, of the General Board of Relief Society, has returned to her home in Salt Lake City, after spending the winter in New York City. While in the east, Mrs. McCune represented the General Board in the Eastern States Mission, and directed the work of the Relief Society, giving weekly classes in Genealogy, in both New York City and Brooklyn. Before returning to Salt Lake City, Mrs. McCune entertained the members of the Conference at a farewell reception, given at the Mission House on 126th Street. Mrs. McCune was one of the patrons of the National and International Council of Women, and with Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams and Mrs. Jos. Howell, represented the Relief Society at the recent Council in Washington. Further information comes from the Eastern States in a recent letter from Miss Margaret Edwards, who is in charge of the work there. Miss Edwards states that the Relief Society in New York City has lately been reorganised with the following officers: President, Bertha Eccles Wright, 1st Counsellor, Leona P. Monson, 2nd Counsellor Nona B. Peterson, Secretary and Treasurer, Janette Y. Easton. An organisation has also been effected in Brooklyn, with the following officers: President, Isabella Wingrave, Counsellor, Carmen Benson, Secretary and Treasurer, Alice Archibald. There is a thriving organisation at Lynn, Mass., which has been running for about 7 months. The members are reported as very greatly interested in the plan of the work as outlined in the Magazine.
Query Box. Hazel Love Dunford. Would you kindly give me some simple combination of perhaps turpentine, coal oil or something of the kind. I wish to polish my dining room chairs. I wish something that will remove the scratches the children have made. Thanking you in advance. Mrs. A. W. A., Emery, Utah. I know of nothing better than Vinero for your furniture. It can be obtained from most of the leading furniture stores. The office and factory are at 2640 So. Seventh East St., Salt Lake City. I am building a new house and would like your opinion on wall finishing for the kitchen. Mrs. C. O., Salt Lake City. Be sure that your ceilings are not made too high. Eight feet six inches is high enough. Paint walls white or cream, giving four coats. Finish with enamel paint. This is rather expensive in the beginning, but as the years pass one soon realises the economy of it, for the walls can be washed and cleaned so easily and never need re-painting. I have four children between the ages of twelve and three. How can I best get and keep their confidence. Mrs. E. G. W., Sugar City, Idaho. From the very infancy a mother must interest herself in the child's affairs. She must be a real chum to every one of her children. I know one mother who has a knack of making each one of her children (and she has five) feel that he is her special favourite. This, I believe, is one great secret in keeping their confidence. DISCOVERIES Mail Box.—The postoffice authorities sent word that we could aid them by placing a mail-box on our porch. I very much disliked the thought of the customary iron box against our bungalow wall. Finally my husband removed the top of one of the pedestals at the foot of the porch steps, put it back on with a hinge, inserted a wooden box in the pedestal and we now have an out-of-sight and very convenient mail box. He has since hinged the top of the other pedestal and in it the children place their rubbers or out-of-doors toys.—Mrs. N. F. M., Ore. Economical Dental Floss.—One spool of No. 60 linen DOES IT PAY. 351 thread, one piece pure beeswax rub wax on thread and use as; dental floss. Good Housekeeping Magazine. Home Made Cork Cleaner.—When cleaning steel knives use a cork instead of a cloth to apply the scouring powder. It cleans them quickly and thoroughly. L. D. W., Logan.
DOES IT PAY? It seems to me I once did say that you are always spending So much good time—if you was home you might do lots of mending. If I spent half the time you do, at meeting every day, I'd go behind with all my work, I'm sure it does not pay. Religion I have never found a paying proposition It's meeting or it's giving gifts without much compensation. I want religion to be light, if it was easy work I'd take a hand in everything and not hang back and shirk. Thus I found fault with these dear sisters Who always were attending Their duties in a quiet way To me it was offending. I thought they ought to stay at home And mind their children, there They'd find they had enough to do With all their household care. But as I grew in years, I found Those sisters who were trying To help the work of God along, To cheer the sick and dying, Were just the humblest of them all; The best ones in the ward, Denying self and home at times To labour for the Lord. And while I pity them at times, No more I'm found fault-finding, If they help in a public way, Myself I will be minding, And see if there is not a place That's suited for me there, And I will work both night and day, And others' burdens share. BASALT, IDAHO. Marie Jensen
Current Topics. James H. Anderson. Sunday Schools in the "Mormon" communities have a membership of more than 200,000—indicating a proportionately notably strong force for the moral and spiritual development of the young people therein. Salt Lake City has a policewoman, Miss Jane Barrett. That she can render more effective service in certain lines than can some of her male colleagues does not admit of dispute; the only question is whether she will do so under the present regime. Johns-Hopkins University at Baltimore, Md., claims the discovery of a serum which restores the heart action one or two hours after it has ceased from drowning or asphyxiation. If this discovery proves as effective as claimed, it means the saving of many lives. German submarine warfare against unarmed merchant vessels continues, notwithstanding the protests of the United States and official German promises which seem to be concessions to the American demand for a cessation or modification of that class of warfare. Russian troops to the number of about 250,000 have landed in France to aid the latter in staying the Teuton advance. This achievement was made possible only by the almost complete mastery of the seas on the part of the English and French navies. The Verdun battle continued seventy days without cessation and with enormous losses on both sides, comparatively slight gains of territory being made by the Germans. Later, the fighting there was resumed, with the prospect that the outcome of this greatest of the world's battles will be a material factor in determining the future conduct of the European war. Church funds of the "Mormon" people to the extent of $11,627,436 have been expended during the last fourteen years for schools, support of the poor, foreign missions, and the construction of houses for public meetings. This excellent showing represents the bulk of the tithing collected, and is apart from the funds raised for such purposes in the ward and stake organisations locally. CURRENT TOPICS. 353 Salt Lake City schools have been given a new superintendent—Ernest A. Smith of Meadville, Pa. On the part of the people, there is much criticism of the city board of education, on the basis of a popular impression that a bonafide resident of Utah, be he ever so faithful and competent in the school system service, has no prospect of recognition or promotion under the existing control of the city system. The American Embargo Conference, in antagonising President Wilson's attitude against German submarine methods under the guise of working for peace, seems to be only one step farther removed from national treachery than the Sinn Feins of Ireland. Loyal Americans of whatever political party, uphold the President in his insistence on the humanitarian treatment, under prevailing international law, of unarmed neutrals. President Wilson sent a note to the German government advising the latter, in effect, that unless German submarine warfare against unarmed merchant vessels was stopped, official relations on the part of the United States with the Teutons would be severed. That the Germans regarded the note as having more of emphasis than of meaning in its language is shown by the kaiser's reply, which diplomatically lays a foundation for further argument. Revolt in Ireland of approximately 20,000 members of the Sinn Fein and Larkinite societies, who have been permitted by the patient internal policy of Great Britain to arm and drill for war in professed sympathy with a separate Irish nationality, cost the lives of several hundred people and the destruction of much property in Dublin, the central scene of the fighting, before the rebellion was brought under control. The Irish people generally disapprove of the revolt, and regard it as treasonable to the existing government in a marked degree, now that the latter is at war with the Teutonic allies in Europe. Wolfe Von Igel, secretary to Captain Von Papen, former military attache to the German legation at Washington, has been arrested in New York for violation of United States neutrality laws. The German ambassador insists that Von Igel and the papers taken with him be restored, on the basis that the arrest and seizure were made in the German consulate, which technically is German territory the United States officials, however, properly; take the view that a German consulate in the United States is not German territory for the purpose of launching schemes for violating the laws of this nation by promoting armed excursions into another country.
EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto—Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counsellor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counsellor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoeba Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. III. JUNE, 1916, No. 6.
CLIMBING. Climbing is a health-giving exercise. The Going very act of setting the muscles, lifting the Upward. body, and raising the eyes, gives instant challenge to all our life forces. The blood is forced quickly through clogged arteries, the heart pumps more vigorously, the lungs expand, and every atom in the body feels soon or late the healthful reaction of this strenuous exercise. The eyes clear, the nostrils quiver, the knees are a-strain, and the feet spurn the earth with upspringing elasticity. So also does this spiritual body of ours react The Spirit to an upward striving after physical balance Climbs. and health. The spirit eyes glow; the spirit muscles contract; the delicate spiritual machinery springs to action vividly, when we set our spiritual feet on the hill of health, leaving behind the gloomy canyons and ravines of physical suffering and pain. So many of us must climb the hill of hope and faith, each morning, stimulated by necessity, and with only our will-power and our faith as a staff or a rod by which to lift us, step by step, along the difficult, upward way. We arise from beds of weary sleeplessness, we bring our jaded appetites to unwanted breakfasts, and our listless hands EDITORIAL. 355 to the daily grinding tasks. How shall we climb past the minutes and the hours until we reach the evening summit, when one more day will have passed over the mountain tops? We see some vigorous friend, vitally alive, How did She electrically competent, and we say she is Get There? blessed and favoured, while we are impotent and stricken down by blind providence. Are you sure she has climbed without effort and pain? Did you ever climb a slippery, uncharted path up a steep hillside, blinded by storm-mists and beaten back by fierce winds? It cost you effort, did it not? Few mature women of this generation but are climbing the hills of life with spent breath and broken nerves. Some few alas, that there are so few are so much in physical tune with life that they are unconscious of all bodily processes and nature functions for them without a jar of the velvet wheels or a click of the delicate machinery. Most women and of these are the spiritually The Way acute live hourly on the promissory notes of Of It. will-power and blind hope. Some there be O follow these who cast away relentlessly all possible handicaps, and with determined eyes, fixed on the star of faith, they go resolutely upward, keeping in harmony with divine laws while denying themselves both self-pity and self-indulgence. So many of us want to travel our own way and the Lord's way at one and the same time. The two ways too often go in opposite directions. If we would climb well and quickly, this hill of desire, of daily toil and struggle, we must cast away all unnecessary burdens sin and envy are such heavy loads and seek each day to live most truly the laws of heaven-climbing. Why shall we droop wearily on the lower, Up, Come Up! sickly levels, when the pure, spiritual air is to be breathed only on the hill-tops? Why shall we hunt for medical staves and sticks, or lie in the mud of discouragement, when we can climb if we will climb slowly, surely, safely upward? Climbing is such hard work, but there is the pure hill-top air above. Come on Try a step or two.! Now! altogether! Up Up Up! ! ! CHANCE AND CHANGE. How shall I dare to mark thy innocent look, And write as in a book, Thy infinite possibilities of life; What fate awaits thee in the coming strife, What joys, what triumphs in the coming years, What depths of woe and tears? Lewis Morris.
Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week. TESTIMONY. Work and Business. Second Week. Summer Health Lessons. Third Week. SANITATION. It is the duty of every citizen to be an interested guardian of health conditions. Moreover, every individual should take a personal pride in safeguarding his community, his friends, his family and himself. It is imperative that we aim to have sanitary surroundings and hygienic living. We have learned what wonders can be accomplished in eliminating the fly by the free use of the fly-killer and the fly traps. So much has been said of this subject that it is now a popular thing to make jokes about the last fly that will be seen on earth. But with all that has been done, it is still almost beyond us to keep even our houses free from baneful pests to say nothing of the outbuildings where animals live. In the home, cleanliness, screened doors and windows and determined use of fly killers or cages are all necessary. Clean basements, closets, and attics, clean yards and alleyways all contribute to the sanitary conditions of the home. Frequent talks on this subject are very necessary as we may easily see by the homes still uncared for, but also we must realise what great improvements have been accomplished by repetitions of lessons on sanitary measures and their enforcement. Every community, even the smallest, should have its committee on sanitation and public health, and that committee should be composed of men and women devoted to the public welfare. All water used for culinary purposes should be pure at its GUIDE LESSONS. 357 source and kept unpolluted. If there is any doubt whatever about the purity of the water it should be boiled before it is used for drinking purposes. Utensils for containing drinking water should be kept very clean. Water may be boiled, cooled, covered and if desired very cold, set on ice to chill. Natural ice, unless known to come from streams or ponds of pure water should not be dissolved in our drinks as many disease microbes are not destroyed by freezing. But as has been suggested, liquids may be chilled by setting them on the ice. Animals should be confined to their proper limits so the home surroundings may be more cleanly and the elimination of flies from the home be more easy. Care and attention to sanitation means the saving of precious human lives. A single fly may menace the health of a whole family and even cause death. One little ordinary fly may carry on him concealed from the natural eye, 100,000 germs. These germs can only be seen with a microscope, but when they find favourable breeding places such as milk, preserves, jelly, or other foods they multiply very rapidly. All foods should be most carefully screened from flies. Foods likely to ferment should be kept in refrigerators or cool places, and not allowed to become stale before using. Milk very readily absorbs impurities from the air or from anything with which it comes in contact such as spoons, cups, pans, etc. Greatest care should be taken to keep the milk pure. When pans are used they should be thoroughly scalded after being washed and then placed in the sunshine. The best way is to keep milk in clean, covered bottles. It should be quickly set away in a cool place and never needlessly exposed to the air. It should be kept cool up to the time of using it, and it should never be exposed to flies. The cause of much sickness among children in the summer, particularly intestinal troubles, is the use of impure milk. That is one reason milk stations are established in big cities where milk can be delivered pure, and where nurses give instructions to young mothers. In country homes where people keep a cow and set away the milk in pans, the greatest care should be taken to have pans, cupboard, safe or refrigerator very clean and cool. The room also should be very clean, with whitewashed or calcimined and bare walls, and no soiled clothing of any kind or old things in storage, should be allowed in the room. Milk or food spilled on shelves will soon contaminate the air. "Where a baby is bottle-fed, every time the feeding bottle and nipple are used, they should be rinsed in luke-warm water, washed in hot water, to which a small amount of washing soda has been added, and then scalded. Never use a rubber tube between bottle and nipple, or a bottle without rounded corners." 358 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "If a case of typhoid fever, scarlet fever, diphtheria, or other contagious disease breaks out in the family, do not return any bottles to the milkman except with the knowledge of the attending physician and under conditions prescribed by him." QUESTIONS. 1. What is the duty of the citizen as to public health? 2. Name some of the conditions which contribute to public health. 3. State how the home may be protected from flies. 4. How may the cause be promoted? 5. What about public health committees? 6. What about your drinking water? 7. Is the supply in your place of residence of the right quality? 8. If you can not get the best kind of water what should be done? 9. What about the use of natural ice? 10. What about the care of domestic animals? 11. Tell something about the danger of flies to human food. 12. How should food in general be cared for? 13. Why should great care be taken with milk? 14. State four important facts in caring for milk. 15. What is one of the great causes of summer sickness among children? 16. Tell something about caring for milk in country homes. 17. How should milk be cared for when a baby is bottle-fed? 18. What about milk bottles at a time of contagious disease?
CARE OF THE CHILD. Fourth Week. The child is a wonderful being. From his first sharp cry on entering the world to the end of his period of development, he opens up for us problem after problem. The care of young infants is a matter that receives more attention from the medical profession now than ever before, and the trained sisterhood of nurses that bless the modern communities remove many dangerous pitfalls from the baby's path. The reason for our care and attention which we bestow on our helpless little one is not alone that he may be fed when he hungers, and put to sleep when he is weary, but we also wish him to grow to complete manhood, strong and beautiful to reach; GUIDE LESSONS. 359 maturity, serene, cheerful and happy. Back of the solicitude with which we provide for him pure air, proper food, a clean skin and sufficient sleep, is the purpose of developing a good physique and strong nerves. Incidentally we wish him to acquire a good disposition which shall make the best of life's problems and turn all experiences to some useful purpose. During the second year the principal food must be good, wholesome, cow's milk. After the fourteenth month of age, most healthy children are able to digest milk in its plain, unmodified form an additional food element may now be supplied by the; various cereals; these should be made into a thin gruel or jelly, strained, and mixed with milk. When the little one has demonstrated his ability to digest these articles, he may have a little clear soup, from which the fat has been removed, now and then, as a change of diet; next a well baked apple, stewed prunes and orange juice may by degrees be allowed. As the summer approaches, stale wheat bread, or toasted biscuit which has been dipped in milk should take the place of the gruels, especially if there is any looseness of the bowels. Next he may have a poached or soft-boiled egg. Naturally all these things are not to be given at one meal. The necessity for cleanliness is not the only reason for regular bathing. The simplest and most natural means to insure the healthy activity of the skin is by the daily common-sense use of a very little pure soap and plenty of water, regulated according to the condition of the child. All children should be bathed daily, and the habit of bathing that is usually begun directly after birth should be continued through the whole of the little one's growing life. The person who bathes the child should wear a large apron, made preferably of Turkish towelling. This should not take the place of the large Turkish towel with which to dry the baby. Baby's towel must be thoroughly clean and warm before being used. Be sure to use a table on which to bathe the baby. The eyelids should be carefully cleansed and all secretions removed from the corners, and the eyelashes the ears may be; thoroughly washed, but without sticking any pointed object into their canal. The mouth may be washed with a fine piece of linen and a very weak solution of boric acid. The principal activities of a child are absorbing nourishment and obtaining rest. This principle of sleep or rest may be found in the normal action of every part of the body. Take for example, the heart, which seems to be working ceaselessly but which has a well defined period of rest, amounting to about one-half second between each relaxation and contraction of its muscular tissue. One would be quite exact in saying that during this period the heart sleeps. Objection should be made to the habit of allowing the babe to sleep in one position during the whole night; 360 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. from the first day of life the child should be placed on its side when sleeping and from time to time should be changed from one side to the other. A child should never be awakened in the morning by any other means than through the natural admission of light into the bedroom. That is the only permissible way of arousing babies and children, thus causing no shock to the tender system. Babies should not be nursed at irregular periods, but should be nursed, bathed and put to sleep on the stroke of the clock. It is difficult to restore health and vitality to a child or a man who has been neglected and maltreated in infancy and early childhood. The child is helpless in the mother's hands. Let her see to it that she attends intelligently and wisely to the needs of her innocent, helpless babe.
QUESTIONS. Why should mothers study the nature and constitution of child life? What is the baby's first requirement? What comes next? What is the safe food for babies under a year old? What diet would you suggest after the first year? How was it with your children? How often should baby be fed? What do you think about babies over six months nursing during the night? Why should a child sleep till nature awakens him? What advantages are there in nursing the baby regularly? In putting him to bed without rocking and at the same hour? How did you train your babies?
EXTENSION WORK IN CACHE STAKE. Cache Stake. In the Cache stake the Relief Society has for some time been conducting an Extension Division for the purpose of doing helpful work along special lines. During the year of 1915, this department raised $196.72 for luncheon served at the County Fair. It also received as donations from clothing firms and individuals $468.57 worth of new clothing, which it has joyfully distributed to those in need. The department also received in donation $300 worth of worn clothing and shoes. This clothing the committee cleaned, altered, mended and pressed before distributing it to worthy individuals. Seventy-five tons of coal was donated to the department by a generous coal dealer and was wisely distributed by the committee.
Current Topics. James H. Anderson. Switzerland is considerably disturbed over frequent violations of that nation's neutrality by German aviators. The Swiss are fortunate in having the violations confined to aerial flights rather than a resort to that which Belgium experienced. The British campaign in Mesopotamia has met with a severe setback in the surrender to the Turks of Gen. Townshend and his army at Kut-el-Amara. Failure to back up with sufficient force this campaign and others attempted in the present war has done more to diminish British prestige as a fighter among the nations than any other event since the American Revolution. Francisco Villa, the Mexican revolutionist and bandit whom the American army pursued 200 miles into Mexico, has made good his escape for the present. An important factor in his successful coup was the story given out by Carranza government officials that Villa was dead, this being an effort to deceive the Americans into a withdrawal of troops from Mexico. Uncle Sam's Aerial Service in connection with the advance of American troops into Mexico was a total collapse, all the machines being put out of commission in a short time. While American editors have been criticising severely Great Britain's aerial war service they have been overlooking a more notable incompetency at home.
Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing announces the opening of its thirteenth school year on Monday, September 18, 1916. School term, 8 months. Course A Entrance fee for the course in Obstetrics, which includes nursing and invalid cooking $50.00. Course B Entrance fee for course in Nursing, which includes invalid cooking $25.00. Course C At intervals during the school year, lectures on Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases, Etc., will be given by eminent physicians, surgeons, and specialists. No charge. Course D A class in Invalid Cooking will be conducted by experts; no extra charge for students taking other courses. Instructor. DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS. For further information write to General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman, Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Genealogical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah "Utah's Most Popular Music House" English and American SAVE HALF ARCHITECTURE When Buying Your Piano By GEO. M. ALLEN We always have on hand a representative is in Mrs. Horne's Art Book, stock of instruments used as demonstrators, returned from rentals, etc., practically good DEVOTEES AND THEIR as new, but AT ABOUT ½ ORIGINAL PRICES SHRINES. Send to this office or Mention this magazine and ask for special list. to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned. OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID The Most Interesting, Z. C. M. I. Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections School Shoes of the West For Boys ARE REACHED VIA are made for service Including they will keep the boys' Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon feet warm and dry. Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River Z. C. M. I. Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts ALLOVERS Pacific Coast Excursions are the ideal Daily to November 30th play garment For Descriptive Literature, address for boys and D. E. Burley, girls. Cheap, General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah serviceable.
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters and sons to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. If the "DAY" has been set Let me sell you the Ring Diamond Rings $20 and up One Quality Only the Best McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City Plan Your 1916 Vacation See America's Playground California Special Excursion Rates May 1st to Sept. 1st, 1916 See the Thirteen Hundred Miles of Scenery via the SOUTHERN PACIFIC Half the pleasure of a trip is Planning it For carefully illustrated itineraries Write or call on C. L. McFAUL, Ticket Office Second Floor Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY, 1916. SPECIAL ARTICLES BIRTH CONTROL Elders Richards, MacKay, Whitney and Smith. A PRICELESS GOLDEN WEDDING DAY Prest. Joseph F. Smith, and Mrs. Julina L. Smith. WHEN FIRST WE MET Alfred Lambourne. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT Utah Sugar Janette A. Hyde. Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29, Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year Single Copy 10c Vol. III No. 7.
TWO BOOKS Your Dealer Sells Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead A simplified form, with complete "Utah-Idaho" instructions for properly recording this work. So great is the demand, and so L. D. S. Family and Individual Record popular is the brand of Utah-Idaho Arranged specially for recording Sugar, that it may be ordered by in a most desirable and concise form, name from your dealer; he is sure to important events in the lives of have this perfect sugar; every progressive members of the church. dealer has it in stock. These books are sold at $1.25 each Deseret News Book Store Housewives have found what a 6 MAIN STREET pure, clean, white, dependable sugar it is; how well it sweetens foods, and how satisfactory the results are when it is used for cooking, preserving and jellymaking. When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Let your dealer know that you are Style, Excellence and a judge of good things by specifying Satisfaction "UTAH-IDAHO" the next time you order sugar. More economical by the sack. Utah-Idaho Sugar The Thomas ABSOLUTELY PURE Studio UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. JOSEPH F. SMITH, PRESIDENT THOS. R. CUTLER, Vice-Pres and Gen'l Mgr. Established 1877 Phone Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY Attention To Subscribers Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 19¾ discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves. Please Use Our Subscription Blanks The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
CONTENTS. JULY, 1916. To My Mother L. Lula Greene Richards 361 A Little Child Shall Lead Them Frontispiece Birth Control 363 A Priceless Golden Wedding 369 Mother's Day Nephi Anderson 374 The True Calendar Hazel S. Washburn 377 When First We Met Alfred Lambourne 378 Graduation Exercises 379 Crochet Centerpiece Isabel Whitney Sears 382 A Prince of Ur Homespun 386 Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde 396 Current Topics James H. Anderson 399 Plain Gossip Mrs. Grundy 402 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 404 Revelry Maud Baggarley 407 Genealogical Notes 408 Editorial: Who Can Help Me? 409 Guide Lessons 412 Charms of Springtime Evan Stephens 418
ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY. Patronise those who advertise with us. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City. MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY 60 East South Temple. STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J, Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City. THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City. TAYLOR S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St., Salt Lake City. UTAH CEREAL FOOD CO., Ogden, Utah. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City Utah. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City.
"Great Truths are Portions Have Your Own Check Book of the Souls of Man" A bill paid by check is safely Books are the means of transmitting "Portions of the Souls" paid cancelled checks are indisputable receipts. Business, personal and household bills should of great men gone, to the men be paid by check. The convenience and safety of this method will now living. readily appeal to anyone. Deseret Sunday School Union Book Store 44 E. South Temple Salt Lake City Open your account at the Merchant's Bank. Deposits may be mailed with safety. SALT LAKE'S "The Bank with a LADY FLORIST Personality" Mrs. Emma J. Sanders Merchant's Bank 278 South Main Street Capital $250,000 Member of Salt Lake Clearing House Schramm-Johnson No. 3 John Pingree, Pres. O.P. Soule, V. P.; Moroni Heiner, V. P.; Radcliffe Q. Cannon, D. R. Pingree, Asst. Cashiers Phone Wasatch 2815 Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City Salt Lake City, Utah
Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. RELIEF SOCIETY DEPARTMENT HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 THE purpose of the UTAH STATE NATIONAL IT is at all times to render Bank BANK helpful service and S.M.TAYLOR & Co. SALT LAKE CITY make the handling Undertakers and Embalmers of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant SUCCESSORS TO Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 Years in One Location UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK 251-257 E. First South Street Your Account is Cordially Invited! Salt Lake City, Utah Efficient Service, Modern Methods, Complete Equipment JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres.
To My Mother. On Her One Hundredth Birthday, April 3, 1916. When I was weary, as a little child, You closely watched with loving eyes and mild, To see and learn what hurt or troubled me, As trustingly my head lay on your knee. You taught me, lest some fear my soul should haunt, "The Lord my Shepherd is, I shall not want." O! that each little child might early hear And learn of "love that casteth out all fear." When first a song welled up from my small throat, Your ear, delighted, quickly caught each note Like mother bird surprised with fledgling wing, You made me feel your joy that I could sing. When adolescence, budding in my heart, Caused cheeks to flush and nerves to quivering start With impulse strange which nature must obey, You knew and safely piloted the way. In reaching grave maturity's estate, When my heart's tendrils blindly sought its mate, Your love still guided me all dangers past, And helped me find the truest, best at last. Your home is Heaven now; in mansions fair Father and you still mention me in prayer, And that safe influence will lead me on 'Till, sometime, I shall go where you have gone. L. Lula Greene Richards.
"A Little Child Shall Lead Them." THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. III. JULY, 1916. No. 7.
Birth Control. Knowing quite well the attitude of the leading women of this people, past and present, on the subject of child-bearing, the Editor still felt anxious to present the views of some of our leading brethren on the subject. Accordingly a letter was sent out setting forth the fact that many of our eastern magazines, especially the women's magazines, have been discussing the propriety of what is known as "birth control." The eugenists and fashionable women, and the fashionable doctors and ministers who advocate this movement, claim that families of from two to four children are quite sufficient for any woman to bear. The lower classes should be discouraged from bearing profusely, according to these pseudo-philosophers, because of their ignorance and poverty while the middle class women, who are the working; women, through these doctrines are gradually getting to feel that life holds much more for them than motherhood. All sorts of reasons, from ill-health and poverty to riches and frivolity, are brought forward as arguments to sustain the claims thus made. We mothers in Zion are quite willing to concede the fact that many of the women of the world who refuse to bear children are better without them, because of the many cases of infidelity of their husbands, and because of their own selfish vanity but the; mothers and grandmothers of Zion must not become tainted with the sins of these final judgments which are sweeping over the earth, for childlessness is one of the judgments now, as it was in the days of Noah, according to the Book of Jasher. We present as our frontispiece, the charming group of baby faces, collected from the grandmothers, mothers, and aunts, on the General Board, and suggest your careful survey of these innocent and beautiful faces which baby belongs to which grandmother? 364 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. We present herewith the views of five members of the quorum of the Twelve apostles, and ask that our Relief Society officers shall read these stirring and splendid comments in the various meetings of our Society.
ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON: In my opinion the practice of restricting the number of children in the family, as advocated by many people, is sinful. It is contrary to the first great commandment given to Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, when the Lord said to them, "Be fruitful, multiply, and replenish the earth," etc. Woman is so constituted that, ordinarily, she is capable of bearing, during the years of her greatest strength and physical vigour, from eight to ten children, and in exceptional cases a larger number than that. The law of her nature so ordered it, and God's command, while it did not specify the exact number of children allotted to woman, simply implied that she should exercise the sacred power of procreation to its utmost limit. Restricting the family to one or two children, as is often done in the world at large, more especially among the rich who have ample means to support large families is a serious evil even to them. It may, and frequently does, lead to grievous disappointment in after life, where death has stepped in and claimed the children as its victims before they reached maturity. Thus the parents are left without the ministrations of loved ones to smooth their pathway down to the grave. The hope of posterity is cut off, and their names disappear from among men. Those who resort to restrictive measures, respecting the number of children in the family, except it be by non-association of husband and wife, trifle with the fountains of life, and will certainly invite the displeasure and righteous anger of an offended Creator, who gave to man and woman this God-like power for the express purpose of bringing the souls of men into the world. The Lord has said, "This is my work and my glory to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." Hence those who are instrumental in bringing children into the world, and doing their full duty by them, help to accomplish the designs of the Almighty Father. Blessed is the man and blessed is the woman to whom no sin is imputed in the marriage relation, but who carefully observe the law of their natures, and keep the commandments of God. To them the future will bring no regrets, and they will not be troubled by an accusing conscience or keen and abiding anguish of the soul. Rudger Clawson.
BIRTH CONTROL. 365 ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. The efforts on the part of Eastern magazine writers to educate the people of the United States, particularly parents, to the doctrine that they should limit the number of their offspring to three or four children, and how this can be accomplished, is both pernicious and an abomination in the sight of the Lord; and it robs both man and his Maker of their glory and increase. I view it as a direct fulfilment of what was shown the Apostle Paul by the Spirit, would come to pass. (1 Tim. 4:1-3.) It is marvellous how many are departed from the faith and are giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils, speaking lies in hypocrisy having their conscience seared as with a; hot iron, some forbidding to marry and others commanding to abstain from meats, and from child-bearing, which God hath created to be received with thanksgiving. The Apostle admonishes Timothy to refuse profane and old wives' fables, and to exercise himself rather with godliness. These may well be called old wives' fables, and a curse will follow those who advocate such doctrines. My wife has borne to me fifteen children. Anything short of this would have been less than her duty and privilege. Had we received and obeyed the doctrine of three or four children to the home, we would have cut ourselves short of blessings more valuable to us than all the wealth of this world would be, were it ours. We might never have known in this life what our loss had been, but it would have been just as great as we now see it, and sometime we would know as we now know. Then consider the joy and value of life to others. What of our eleven children born to us in excess of the four to which such as these magazine writers would limit us? Can the value of such a mission and service be estimated? Will not these our children and their husbands, wives and children, for generations after us, if they are duly appreciative, rise up and call us blessed forever and ever? As to the danger and hardship of child-bearing to the mothers, I have to say that from my observations, I conclude that the answering of nature's laws which are God's laws is far less injurious and dangerous than the efforts made to defeat these laws. That there is less of anxiety and cost in rearing but few children in the family, is granted, but that children thus brought up are better reared, I do not concede. It is an easy matter to understand how that people would make popular the wrong of which they are guilty and having no thought of repentance, seek to drag others down to their own low evil level. It seems to take away, in a measure, their reproach. This class, as a rule, are guilty of the double offence of both practicing and teaching a false and abominable doctrine. For such, the patience of the 366 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Lord, I fear, will cease to be a virtue and His anger will be kindled against them. George F. Richards. elder David O. McKay Any effort or desire on the part of a married couple to shirk the responsibility of parenthood reflects a condition of mind antagonistic to the best interests of the home, the state and the nation. No doubt there are some worldly people who honestly limit the number of children and the family to two or three because of insufficient means to clothe and educate a large family as the parents would desire to do, but in nearly all such cases, the two or three children are no better provided for than two or three times that number would be. Such parents may be sincere, even if misguided but in most cases the desire not to have children has its birth in vanity, passion and selfishness. Such feelings are the seeds sown in early married life that produce a harvest of discord, suspicion, estrangement, and divorce. All such efforts, too, often tend to put the marriage relationship on a level with the panderer and the courtesan. They befoul the pure fountains of life with the slime of indulgence and sensuality. Such misguided couples are ever seeking but never finding the reality for which the heart is yearning. Depriving themselves of the comfort and happiness of the companionship of children, the barrenness of their lives drives the young couple to seek the hollow fads and fascinating excitements of "Society," many of which pursuits are as antagonistic to the real purpose of life as the influence of evil can make them. As I write these lines, I have in mind a young girl who has substituted for the reality of home and family, the froth of weekend parties and midnight carousals, including the most degrading but fashionable habit of cigarette smoking. She began her married life in honor, and is the mother of two beautiful children but she was caught in the whirlpool of pleasure and passion, and though flaunting daily the latest fashions, is sinking from respectability to refined degradation. "O what a falling off were here!" I cannot look upon such actions of young husbands and wives without a feeling of pity mingled with contempt. There is comfort only in the thought that in our communities such cases are exceptional. Love realizes his sweetest happiness and his most divine consummation in the home where the coming of children is not restricted, where they are made most welcome, and where the duties of parenthood are accepted as a co-partnership with the eternal Creator. BIRTH CONTROL. 367 In all this, however, the mother's health should be guarded. In the realm of wifehood, the woman should reign supreme. Man, not woman, is the chief cause of this evil of race suicide now sweeping like a blight through the civilized nations. Marriage is ordained of God that children might be so trained that they may eventually be worthy of Christ's presence and that home is happiest in which they are welcomed, as God and nature intended they should be. Sincerely your brother, David O. McKay. elder o. f. whitney. I am aware, of course, that it is easier to feed, clothe, educate and rear a few children than many. But these considerations, so conclusive to some minds, have never had weight with me, contemplating as I do the eternal rather than the mere earthly phases of marriage and procreation. The only legitimate "birth control" is that which springs naturally from the observance of divine laws, and the use of the procreative powers, not for pleasure primarily, but for race perpetuation and improvement. During certain periods those of gestation and lactation the wife and mother should be comparatively free to give her strength to her offspring and if this involves some self-denial on the part of the husband and father, so much the better for all concerned. "Birth control," under God's law, is a problem that solves itself. I have no faith in the sophisms of those who reject His law, and try to substitute therefor their own vain theories for sex regulation. The eugenists may mean well, but they don't know enough to lead the world out of the wilderness. O. F. Whitney. ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. In answer to your communication in which you ask me for my views on the question of "birth control," or the limiting of the number of children in a family to one or two," according to the teaching of the day by the so-called elite or fashionable class, I have this to say: The first great commandment given both to man and beast by the Creator was to "be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth;" and I have not learned that this commandment was ever repealed. Those who attempt to pervert the ways of the Lord, and to prevent their offspring from coming into the world in obedience to this great command, are guilty of one of the most heinous crimes in the category. There is no promise of eternal salvation and exaltation for such as they, for by their acts they prove their unworthiness for exaltation and unfitness for a kingdom where the crowning glory is the continuation of the family union and eternal increase which have been promised to all those who obey the law of the Lord. It is just as much murder to destroy life before as it is after birth, although man-made laws may not so consider it but there is One who does take notice and his justice and judgment is sure. I feel only the greatest contempt for those who, because of a little worldly learning or a feeling of their own superiority over others, advocate and endeavor to control the so-called "lower classes" from what they are pleased to call "indiscriminate breeding." The old Colonial stock that one or two centuries ago laid the foundation of our great nation, is rapidly being replaced by another people, due to the practice of this erroneous doctrine of "small families." According to statistics gathered by a leading magazine published in New York, a year or two ago, the average number of children to a family among the descendants of the old American stock in the New England States, was only two and a fraction, while among the immigrants from European shores who are now coming into our land, the average family was composed of more than six. Thus the old stock is surely being replaced by the "lower classes" of a sturdier and more worthy race. Worthier because they have not learned, in these modern times, to disregard the great commandment given to man by our Heavenly Father. It is indeed, a case of the survival of the fittest, and it is only a matter of time before those who so strongly advocate and practice this pernicious doctrine of "birth control" and the limiting of the number of children in the family, will have legislated themselves and their kind out of this mortal existence. Joseph F. Smith, Jr. PENNY SUBSCRIPTION FUND. The first collection for the Penny Subscription fund will be made in July. Teachers have been supplied with slips and secretaries with special books to record these donations. A Priceless Golden Wedding. Few women are so privileged as to celebrate a golden wedding, and fewer women have been blessed upon this earth to celebrate such a golden wedding as was enjoyed by our beloved and honored Counselor, Julina L. Smith, on May 5, 1916. To be the wife of one of the greatest men that ever lived upon this earth, the mother of eleven of his children who are all lovely and notable characters, with thirty-eight grand children to be surrounded by all of these dear ones and by a host of affectionate and loyal friends —this is indeed a blessing accorded to few mortal women. President Joseph F. Smith and his noble wife, Julina L. Smith, received a few of their vast army of friends on this happy occasion in the Bee-Hive House. President Smith was his usual princely and handsome self. Sister Smith wore a golden wedding gown of white satin, beautifully made by one of our own sisters and modestly decorated with laces and flowers. She was not handsomer on her wedding day than she was on this happy occasion. The house was decorated in a profusion of flowers and the favorite Hawaiian band discoursed music for the entertainment of the guests. Heaven will not hold a more precious and beautiful tribute than was offered to this favored woman by her husband, her children, the General Board of the Relief Society of which she is one of the Presidency, and the many friends, who sent up a prayer in behalf of the happy couple that years may be added to this honored father and mother in Israel. Answering our request Mrs. Smith writes The editors of the Relief Society Magazine have called upon me for a sketch of my life, feeling that the people should be somewhat acquainted with those who stand at the head of the great Relief Society work, and direct its affairs. It gives me much pleasure to comply with this request, inasmuch as I have been a member of the Relief Society ever since I was eighteen years of age, and a member of the General Board since the Relief Society was incorporated in 1894. I was born in Salt Lake City, June 18, 1849, both my parents having helped to pioneer the way to Utah, in the year 1847. My father, Alfred B. Lamson was an excellent mechanic and blacksmith which enabled him to render services of great value to those who crossed the plains, in those early days, and especially to the people after they reached the valley. In early days, his home was one of the best, and was the first house erected in the 370 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. state of Utah which was finished on the interior with plastered walls. My mother, Melissa Jane Bigler Lambson, was the youngest sister of our late beloved President of the Relief Society, Bathsheba W. Smith. May 5, 1866, I married Joseph F. Smith, who, at that time, was laboring as a clerk, assisting my uncle, George A. Smith, in the Historian's office. Our first baby, Mercy Josephine, was born in 1867, and in 1868, with my full consent, my husband married Sarah Ellen Richards, a daughter of President Willard Richards, who was one year younger than I. We started our married lives together, mere girls, and for forty-seven years were companions. In 1869, a daughter was born to Sarah, but our Heavenly Father saw fit to leave her with us for only a few days. When my second baby was only eight months old the angel of death again visited us bearing away our first-born, our little chatter-box, the delight of our home. On the first of January, 1870, with the consent of both Sarah and myself, Joseph married my sister, Edna, and later married Alice, daughter of President Heber C. Kimball and Mary, niece of President John Taylor. As our family increased in size, additions were made to the two original rooms of our dwelling, until, in time, the roof covered nineteen rooms which formed three apartments and housed a family of twenty-one. After we had our separate apartments, and later separate rooms, we continued to have all things in common. Aunt Sarah was particularly skilful with the needle, and we often exchanged work with benefits to all, especially when our children were little. In case of sickness all else was neglected, if necessary, while we nursed and watched alternately. In times of death we mourned equally, and in time of health we rejoiced and worked shoulder to shoulder with our husband. When the mother of three children, I studied obstetrics and nursing under the best physicians then in Utah, and the knowledge acquired has been of great service not only in our own family but in hundreds of cases where I have responded to calls from expectant mothers. It has always been a joy to me to place a tiny one for the first time in its mother's arms, for then I felt again the thrills that I have felt in looking into the baby faces of my own. My first three children were daughters, and no mother ever loved her babies more than I did mine, but as most mothers do, I desired a son. I prayed that I might have a son, if I was thought worthy to raise one to walk in his father's footsteps and be true to the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Otherwise I would be satisfied with daughters, for children I must have. A PRICELESS GOLDEN WEDDING. 371 Sarah was the mother of two daughters and a son, and Edna had two sons before my prayers were answered, but in my first son, Joseph F. Smith, Junior, as in my second, third and fourth, my prayers were fully answered for they have been all a mother could ask for. I have given birth to eleven children and have adopted two. Sarah is the mother of eleven and Edna ten, with all of whom I share a mother's interest, for I have watched over and helped to care for them since they drew their first breath. And in fact they all seem to be a part of me. The old home no longer shelters us, for as birdlings leave the parent nest and build their own, so our babies have become full-fledged, and many of them, with their mates, have flown away. Leonora, (Mrs. Joseph Nelson) President Smith's oldest child then living, and the daughter of Sarah, was the first to leave our home and go to a home of her own, and to her were given three sons and a daughter before a grandchild came to me. To my sister, Edna, came the next grandchild, through her son, Hyrum. My first grandchild, David J. Smith, was born on Sunday, November 10, 1901, the day and hour his grandfather was sustained as the President of the Church. Since then we have rapidly increased in number, for today I have thirty-eight grandchildren; Sarah eighteen and Edna fifteen. Edward A. Smith, my adopted son who is now deceased, was the father of eight children. Because of their scattered condition I have not a record of his grandchildren. The scenes have changed many times during the past fifty years. For two years I was on the Hawaiian Islands while my husband was in exile for the gospel's sake. During this time I had with me two of my children, and it was while here that my fourth son was born. My other children were left in the care of Sarah and Edna. For a number of years our families were scattered and, to obey the laws of the land, changes were made in our family customs, which grieved us all. Now only on special occasions can we meet together as we did formerly, for we have grown so numerous and become so scattered. Many roofs now shelter those who used to dwell beneath the same roof and many walls surround the laughter of children's voices. Still, in my memory, live those happy days, and I can see as a moving picture the familiar games being played, the races run after the pears when the wind blew hard, the thumping for the ripe watermelons, the shelling of peas and the stringing of beans brought in from the garden. The climbing of the giant locust tree for the birds' nests, with the patching trousers that followed the harnessing of the old horse ready for a drive or perhaps the bustling off to school after the morning prayers and breakfast and, as the night comes on the tired boys and girls. Again I see the father as he goes from room to room and bed to bed to see that everyone is tucked in for the night. Such memories as these come back when I think of the old home. After the old home had grown too large and we had decided to rent it, President Smith wanted to go back, but I answered if I could go back with papa and mamas' children all there I would not hesitate, but to go to an empty house, never. And this reminds me of an answer to a letter I wrote to Hyrum, who is presiding over the European Mission, telling him how the old place looked, and how it made me feel, and I will here quote a few lines from his wife's letter to me: "Dear Aunt Julina: Your most welcome and most appreciated letter of May 12 was duly received. The children had just gone to school, so Hyrum and I sat down quietly to read and enjoy the news of our beloved ones at home. Then I read this part of your letter: 'After a good cleaning the place looked so nice that it almost made me homesick. I saw the little children playing in my big room, the one they used to make their playground, and the one they were never sent out of.' I looked up at Hyrum and the big tears were rolling down his face and he said, "That is true. I never remember being sent out of that room by Aunt Julina, in my life, and they were very happy days. Papa and our three mammas worked hard in those days, and each one did his share, and love and unity prevailed. Then he went on and told about the great quantity of fruit that was grown in the orchard, and how all the children that were large enough used to gather and prepare this fruit for drying, and then he related many other reminiscences and wound up by saying. 'Indeed, they were happy days.' And so the years pass on, and to our children no doubt memories of their lives will be as sweet as mine are today to me. On the 5th of May we celebrated my fiftieth wedding anniversary, and that evening we all met together with many of our friends. The following day, President Smith's grandchildren gathered at the Bee-Hive. A photograph was taken of my immediate family which is produced herewith. On the same day a moving picture was taken of President Smith and his grandchildren, which can be filed away for their enjoyment in future years. On the same day, President Smith's oldest grandson, Joseph Smith Nelson, was ordained an elder preparatory to a mission. Such, in brief, is the recital of a busy and happy life lived in the midst of a modern patriarchal family." Mother's Day. By Nephi Anderson. The husband and the wife filed out slowly with the dispersing congregation. Usually, at the close of the meeting, he lingered to chat and to shake hands with his neighbors; but that evening the wife took him by the arm and said, "Come on, I want to go home." The husband looked at his wife as they passed out from the close meeting room into the cool evening air. "Aren't you feeling well?" he asked. "Oh, I'm all right," she replied. "The air was bad tonight. Why don't they have more windows open!" "Yes the room was close, but it wasn't that." As the two walked on homeward, the wife clung to her husband's arm. He drew her hand closely into his. She was not well, he could see that. Usually, light-hearted and talkative, she was silent all the way home. They went into the sitting room, and he threw open the window. The wife sank into the chair by the table, and the husband gently folded a light shawl across her shoulders. Then he sat down by her. The evening was bright with moonlight which fell into the room through the curtained window. "That was a lovely Mothers' Day program we had this evening," said he. "Mrs. Harrington is quite an orator." "Yes and do you know how she made me feel?" replied the wife in a gentle voice, full of feeling. He did not grasp the full meaning of her question, and she saw it, so she continued: "She made me feel how little, how insignificant, how useless, how good-for-nothing I am." "Why, my dear!" "Yes she just as good as said that a woman who had not been a mother is of very little consequence." "Oh, she did not say that." "Not in so many words, but her argument led to that conclusion. I've never been a mother, and never shall be, and therefore, I am of very little consequence in the world." "That's not your fault, my dear. Surely —" "No I'm not to blame, as far as I know, but that fact does not alter the case. I am not a mother, and I shall remain without that honor all my days. No matter how much good I may do in other ways, I must miss the supreme destiny of woman. And why—" MOTHER'S DAY. 375 The wife bowed her head into her hands and tears trickled through her fingers. The husband put his arm about her. "My dear, don't do that. Don't feel badly about it." "Not even a white carnation was given me," she said, as she raised her face and tried to smile through her tears. "I'll buy you a bouquet of them." "It was really funny. Mary Jones knows, as everybody knows, that I am not a mother, so when we came in did you notice — she just skipped me and pinned one of the biggest flowers she had on old Mother Brown who has ten children. Yes, surely, it was Mother's Day." The husband sat down by his wife, very close, so that he could take her in his arms and kiss her face and stroke her wavy, brown hair, not yet tinged with gray. They smiled again into each other's faces and the little cloud of sorrow seemed to be lifted. "This is a man-made Mother's Day," he said "but I want to tell you of a Mother's Day that is coming — coming for all such good, noble women as you." "All right, tell me." "Why motherhood is denied wives who desire it, we may not know. We must, in such cases, be content, and trust in the Lord but this we Latter-day Saints are assured, that some day, all that is coming to every good man and every good woman will be realized. And fatherhood and motherhood is one of these blessings. Though no earthly children may come to their earthly home, there is coming a day when our heavenly home will echo with the glad voices of children innumerable. Let me read to you what the Lord says." He snapped on the electric light. Then he reached for the Book of Doctrine and Covenants lying on the table, and opened it. "This is from Section Seventy-six: "'This is the testimony of the gospel of Christ concerning them who come forth in the resurrection of the just "'They are they who receive the testimony of Jesus, and believe on his name, and were baptized after the manner of his burial, being buried in the water in his name, and this according to the commandment which he has given, "'That by keeping his commandments they might be washed and cleansed from all their sins, * * * "'They are they who are the church of the first born. "'They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things "'They are they who are Priests and Kings, who have received of his fullness, and of his glory, "'And are Priests of the Most High, after the order of Melchizedek, which was after the order of Enoch, which was after the order of the Only Begotten Son — 376 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "'Wherefore, as it is written, they are Gods, even the sons of God "'Wherefore, all things are theirs, whether life or death, or things present, or things to come, all are theirs and they are Christ's, and Christ is God's; "'And they shall overcome all things.' "Yes," said the wife, after a pause in the reading, "that is all very beautiful; but what about it?" "Why, don't you see, taking for granted that we belong to those who fulfil the requirements, 'all things' are promised us, 'whether life or death, or things present, or things to come.' Surely, within the compass of 'all things' will be the power to propagate our kind, and raise up a heavenly posterity that shall be ours as truly as we are our Heavenly Father's. Here, let me read from the revelation on Celestial marriage. In speaking of the purposes for which virgins are given to God-fearing men, the Lord says: "'For they are given unto him to multiply and replenish the earth, according to my commandment, and to fulfil the promise which was given by my Father before the foundation of the world and for their exaltation in the eternal worlds, that they may bear the souls of men; for herein is the work of my Father continued, that he may be glorified.' "Did you note the two divisions of this promise. The first is to multiply and replenish the earth the second is that they may bear the souls of men, after their exaltation in the eternal worlds. Most good wives fulfil the first requirement, and most of them, we hope, will be worthy to continue their high calling into the worlds to come. And this we are assured, also, that those good wives were spoken of in the revelation, who because of no fault of their own, failed in the first, will not fail in the second, but in their exalted state will bear the souls of men. "Does it mean all that?" "Orson Pratt seemed to think so, for here are his footnotes to the expression 'souls of men'. See, here it is in the book: "'that is, the souls or spirits of men to be born in heaven.' The wife bent over the book with the husband that she might see for herself. Yes, there it was. It must be true. Never before had this doctrine come so definitely to her. There was a look in her face as she raised it to her husband's that was beautiful to see. "To 'bear the souls of men'" he repeated, "Oh, my dear, think of it: motherhood without pain or suffering! To bring forth and then to mother a race of children that shall be your very own throughout the ages of eternity. That day will indeed be Mothers' Day, my dear." "Yes: and that will be Fathers' Day, too, will it not?" MOTHER'S DAY. 377 "For you and for me!" "Thank you, my husband, for what you have said. I shall be comforted, and try to shape my life to be worthy of that great destiny awaiting us." THE TRUEST CALENDAR. Hazel S. Washburn. I asked a mother old and worn, How long she'd walked this vale of tears. She smiled at me, so sad and wan, "I think," said she, "a thousand years." "What jolly times you must have had," I said, "when you were young and gay." A light broke o'er her countenance, "Ah me, it seems but yesterday." "But many trials you have borne," I then remarked. She softly sighed: "Oh child the way was long and hard, I could have lain me down and died." "But surely there was recompense?" I ventured in a transient mood. "My children, bless them every one, God has been very, very good." "How old are you?" I still pursued. "A thousand years? A happy day?" A twinkle glimmered in her eye, She answered me in playful way, "I'll tell you, dearie, it depends On which you count, your suns, or showers. From this time onward, you and I Must only count our happy hours." WHEN FIRST WE MET When first our eyes and when our hands first met, That moment, My Beloved, that voice I heard, Then to its depth felt my being stirred, And ended was the hunger of the years. O then I heard the music of the spheres, The sunshine came into a darkened life, And in that moment there was end of strife. When first our eyes and when our hands first met; Love waited, and you came to be my own. Then sprang the blossoms covered o'er with dew, And rapture filled with beauty time and place; Thy glance, thy hand touch, and thy voice's tone, These for thy lover made the world anew. My fate I learned when I looked on thy face! Alfred Lambourne Graduation Exercises of the Class of Obstetrics and Nursing. Another successful season for the Relief Society Class in Nursing and Obstetrics has just closed in this city with appropriate exercises. The graduates were young women of intelligence and superior qualifications. The lectures and lessons were of the usual excellent quality and the whole was a gratifying season in every respect. The following inspired remarks were made President Francis M. Lyman. I have been in the business of employing nurses for about four years, giving steady employment all along. Generally, they have been older people. I have had a great variety and, as a rule, we have had splendid satisfaction from those who have helped us. They have been very willing, and sympathetic, and considerate. It has been a little difficult, with those whom I have had in my home, to determine whether they are "trained" nurses, or those who have been instructed in these yearly classes. We look upon those from the hospital who have had two and three years' experience — as trained, graduate nurses. It is a very important matter and mission, that you are accepting, and have undertaken, I suppose, because the Relief Society have advised, and are anxious that there should be an ample supply of those who are able to take care of the sick — both poor and rich. And I beg you will treat the sick all alike. So far as I have heard, you are summoned to the houses of those who are able to pay for service, and to those who are not. It is understood that the Relief Society nurses, particularly, are to be ready always for charitable purposes. Be ready always to help the poor. We have found quite a number of nurses who have helped us, and who have been willing and ready to discover what we have needed, without our telling them. Anything they could put their hands to in the home, they were always ready to do. Generally, the women who have been with us, have been women from a home, who have had people depending upon them — many have been mothers of families, and have had experience in doing all useful and proper labor in the home. Don't be afraid to help in the house in any necessary work when you are not otherwise employed. One feature I want to emphasize for you, dear sisters, and that is, you do not go into homes to do "drudgery." There is no 380 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. such thing as drudgery. People who are able to pay for your service, would be able to give $3 for another girl to do the heavy work, as a rule. Whether they employ you solely for nursing or not, you should be glad to take hold of anything there is to do in the home. You do not go out nursing for pleasure you go for service. If they are not able to pay for service, you go there without any pay, as charity workers. Make of yourself a pleasant companion, so that they will want you back again. We have had nurses come to us, over and over again we have sought them, and they have been willing to come, over and over again. It is quite an accomplishment for nurses to feel at home, and make themselves at home, and be serviceable. If the mistress of the house is the one who is sick, the nurse should relieve her in her household affairs, as well as physically. I suppose it would hardly occur, excepting where no wages at all could be afforded, that a special nurse would be the only one in the house. There is generally a housekeeper, and one to do the washing. We have never had any drudgery in my home. We do not look upon honest work as drudgery. All workers in my home found nothing objectionable in the home. My wives and daughters could take hold of any work readily, to help out, and none of them made drudgery of work. It is a good thing for a nurse to be on hand to give her services in any direction needed with pay or without pay, and make it just as pleasant when she is paid, as when she is not. When you go out empty handed, you will be greatly blessed by the Lord, and will receive gratitude from the people. How many of you have had a patriarchal blessing? Ten. Every person should have a patriarchal blessing. We will bless you all, but it will not be in writing. We will bless you and set you apart, asking the Lord to give you wisdom and success. I trust you would not hesitate to give help in any home. I think this should be the duty of every Relief Society nurse; that wherever there is human suffering, you will give and do the best you can. You should not refuse to attend non-"Mormons," but help them as best you can, and with as much solicitude as you would give in the homes of Latter-day Saints. Everyone one of you should have your patriarchal blessing. Go to a patriarch, and have it written. You will always find patriarchs who are at your service, and you will be able to get blessings from them, and not from anybody else. It is in their line, and belongs to them. They are blessed and set apart, and instructed in that line, and should be, and are, ready to give blessings to those who require them and need them. I have had more than one blessing, and have had those who wanted to bless me. I have appreciated them all. This may occur with you; but at least one patriarchal blessing should be received by each Latter-day Saint. I want to tell you about these things, so that you will know my views. It is expected of you that you will continue to be students, and learn more and more, until you become more efficient with practice and experience, so that you will be able to help others, and be fully equipped. You who are not married, get married, the first opportunity, because a married woman knows a good deal more than one who is not. Take that as a general rule. Generally, unmarried girls are very bright, and have had much experience, but there is an experience and training in the marriage relation, and in the rearing of a family, that cannot be obtained in any other way. Just the same way as with a mission. A young man cannot become so thoroughly trained, but what he needs a mission. I have had friends who have been on missions, and those who have not, and I could always discover something lacking in a man who had not had an experience in the mission field. You cannot get it all at home— a man needs to go abroad. I want to say further, no man is full-fledged that is not married; and no woman is full-fledged who is not married and a mother. They should marry, and have children of their own, before they are quite perfect. "Man is not without the woman, nor woman without the man, in the Lord." All are lacking, unless they have completed the object of their being. They are not in the Lord complete and perfect, without a family and marriage is not enough, alone they need to be fathers and mothers. I always advise that boys and girls should marry and multiply and replenish the earth. That is their calling. They cannot be perfect without this. The Lord will bless you, my dear sisters, in accordance with your labors. Approach the Lord in prayer, trust Him, and seek for His assistance, and help in whatever you do. Pray before you go into a home, pray after you get there, keep on praying while you have life. When you have the welfare of a soul in your hands, treat it as very precious. A human life is the most precious thing on the earth. You are expected to give your very best consideration, thought, and wisdom for the benefit of those who need your assistance. We want you to obtain the fellowship and blessings of the Lord, and those you serve will feel a benefit from your touch, your presence, your movements about them, and you will fill them with hope and consolation, and be as ministering angels. Thus, you will find that training and experience will be favorable to you, and it will help your hearts and souls, and comfort you, and give you every consolation which you require. We bless you, and trust that this General Relief Society class for 1916, under the teaching of Dr. Roberts, will reflect credit upon her splendid efforts and training for you. Crochet Centerpiece. By Isabel Whitney Sears. Stitches used — Chain (ch) catch cotton with hook making a loop, draw cotton with the hook through this loop which makes the first stitch. Repeat. Draw through as many loops as wanted — each loop is termed a chain stitch. Slip stitch(sl. st.) put hook through the work, thread over the hook, draw it through the stitch on the hook. Single crochet (s. c.) having stitch on hook, put hook through work, and draw thread through making two stitches on hook, thread over hook and draw through both stitches. Treble crochet (t. c.) having stitch on hook, put thread over hook, put hook through work and draw thread through, making three stitches on hook, put thread over hook, draw through two stitches, put thread over hook and draw through the two remaining stitches. Long treble crochet (l. t. c.): like t.c, except the thread is thrown over the hook twice before inserting in work. The stitches are worked off two at a time as in t. c. Extra long stitch (e. l. s.) wind thread around hook three times and draw off two stitches at a time, same as t. c. Picot (p): A picot is made by making four or five chain, going back and drawing thread through first ch. with sl. st. — Wheel Chain 7, join with sl. st., ch. 3, make 18 t. c. in ring; ch. 18 turn, t. c. in 4th ch. from hook; make 25 t. c. under 15 ch., ch. 1, turn; 25 s. c. in 25 t. c, take up ch. double, ch. 4, make p., sl. st. into first 5 s. c, ch. 4, make p. sl. st. into next 5 s. c. to end, then fasten in 3rd t. c. of ring with sl. st. 2nd spoke— Ch. 15, fasten into 2nd picot of 1st spoke with sl. st., ch. 3, turn 25 t. c. under 15 ch., ch. 1, turn 25 s. c. in 25 t. c, ch. 4, turn, make p. sl. st. into first 5 s. c, ch. 4, make p. sl. st. in next 5 s. c, repeat three times, fasten into 6th t. c. 3rd, 4th and 5th spokes same as second. 6th spoke — Chain 15, join to second p. of 5 spokes with sl. st., ch. 3, turn 25 t. c. under 15 ch., ch. 1, turn, 25 s. c. into 25 t. c, ch. 4, turn make p. sl. st. into first 5 t. c, ch. 4, make p. sl. st. into next 5 s. c, ch. 4, make p. sl. st. into next 5 s. c, ch. 2, put hook through lowest point of first spoke, thread over needle, pull through ch. 2, sl. st. into next 5 s. c, ch. 4, make p. sl. st. into next 5 s. c, sl. st. into st. next to first spoke fasten thread on wrong side. 1st round — Fasten thread in p. of spoke, ch. 9, join to next p. with sl. st., ch. 8, join to next p., ch. 9, join to p., ch. 8, join to p., ch. 8, join to p., ch. 9, join to p., ch. 8, join to p., ch. 8, join to p., ch. 9, join to p., ch. 8, join to p., ch. 8, join to p., ch. 9, join to p., ch. 8, join to p., ch. 8, join to p., ch. 9, join to p., ch. 8, join to p., ch. 8, join to p., ch. 9, join in 2nd st. of first 9 ch. with s. st. 2nd round — Chain 1, s. c. in each st. all around, fasten with sl. st. in 1st st. of ch. 3rd round — Same as second round. 4th round — Same as 2nd round, but widen by working 2 sts. under 1 ch. at every 8th st., fasten with sl. st. in first st. 5th and 6th round — Same as 2nd round. 7th round — Ch. 4, thread over hook three times, put hook through next ch., thread over, pull through, work off 2 sts. at a time, thread over hook three times, put hook through next st., thread over, pull through, work off two sts. at a time, ch. 5, skip 4 sts., 3 extra long sts. in 3 ch ch. 5, repeat the spaces with 5 ch. and the 3 long sts. all round, end with 5 ch. s. st. into first. 8th and 9th rounds — Same as 2nd round. 10th round — Same as 2nd round, but widen in every 7th st. by working 2sts. under 1 ch. 11th and 12th rounds — Same as 2nd round. 13th round — Same as 7th round; end with 5 ch. 14th and 15th rounds — Same as second round. 16th round — Same as 2nd round, but widen by working 2 sts. under 1 ch. at every 9th st. 17th and 18th rounds—Same as 2nd round; don't break off thread, but leave until the wheels are all made and joined. The edge wheels are the same as the one in the center. Make one wheel complete and work all the second wheel but the picot; join together, picot in picot as shown in the illustration. Slip st. 6 between picots. Make and join 11 wheels. Now hold center of doily in left hand, the wheels to the right. You have 1 ch. on hook, put hook through end picot of first spoke from where the wheels are joined, picot in picot, put hook through center of next st., thread over hook, pull through the 2 sts. and picot at once sl. st. 5, put hook through next picot and through next st., thread over hook, pull through the 2 sts. and picot, sl. st., 5, put work through next picot and through next st., thread over hook, pull through 2 sts. and picot sl. st. 6. Keep ch. on hook. To fill the spaces between wheels — thread over hook 4 times, put hook through next picot, thread over hook, pull through, work off 2 sts. at a time leaving the last st. on hook, thread over hook 6 times, put hook through next p. thread over, pull through, work off 2 sts. at a time, keeping last st. on hook, thread over hook 5 times, put hook through next p. Thread over hook, pull through, work off 2 at a time keeping last st. on hook thread over hook 4 times, pull hook through p., pull through, work off 2 at a time, keeping last st. on hook. You now have 5 sts. on hook put hook through next ch., thread over hook, pull through all 6 sts. at once, sl. st. 6, repeat joining the wheels to center and filling spaces all around end with filling space when you pull hook through the last 6 sts. in space sl. st. on to the first p. you started from break thread and fasten with sewing needle on wrong side. All ends are fastened on wrong side with sewing needle. 1st round for border — Fasten thread in p. at point of spoke, ch. 5. join to next p., ch. 5, join to p., ch. 5, join to p., ch. 5, join to p., ch. 10, thread over hook four times, fasten into next p. on same spoke, thread over, draw off 2 sts. at a time. Thread over hook, 6 times, fasten to p. where wheels join, thread over hook, draw off 2 sts. at a time thread over 5 times, fasten in next p., draw off 2 sts. at a time, ch. 10, join to first p. in next spoke. Repeat round and fasten with sl. st. 2nd round — Ch. 1, s. c. in each chain all around. 3rd round— Same as 2nd round, but widen by working two sts. in one ch. at every 7th st. fasten with sl. st. 4th and 5th rounds— Same as 2nd round. 6th round — Same as second, but widen by working two sts. in 1s. c. at every 7th st., fasten with sl. st. 7th round — Same as 2nd round. 8th round — Ch. 3, 3 t. c. into 3 s. c, ch. 4, skip 4 s. c, 11 s. c. into 11s. c, ch. 4, skip 4 s. c, 4 t. c. into 4 s. c, ch. 4, skip 4 s. c, 11 s. c. into next 11 s. c. Repeat all the way around. 9th round — Ch. 3, 1 t. c. into first 2 t. c., ch. 3, 2 t. c. into next 2 t. c, ch. 5, 10 s. c. into 11s. c, ch. 5, 2 t. c. into first 2 t. c, ch. 3, 2 t. c. into next 2 t. c. Repeat around. 10th round — Ch. 3, 1 t. c. into 2 t. c, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into same loop, ch. 2, 2 t. c. into next 2 t. c, ch. 5, 9 s. c. into 10 s. c, ch. 5, 2 t. c. into next 2 t. c, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into same loop, ch. 2, 2 t. c. into next 2, t. c, ch. 5, 9 s. c. into 10 s. c. Repeat to the end of row fasten with sl. st. 11th round — Ch. 3, 1 t. c. into the 2 t. c, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, t. c. into same loop, ch. 2, t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 2 t. c. into 2 t. c, ch. 5, 8 s. c. into the 9 s. c, ch. 5. Repeat around finish with sl. st. 12th round — Ch. 3, 1 t. c, 2 s. c, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop ch. 2, 1 t. c. into same loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 2 t. c. into 2 t. c, ch. 6, 7 s. c. into 8 s. c, ch. 6. Repeat to the end and fasten with sl. st. 13th round — Ch. 3, 1 t. c. into 2 t. c, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into first loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into same loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 2 t. c. into next 2 t. c, ch. 6, 5 s. c. into 7 s. c, ch. 6. Repeat to the end and fasten with sl. st. 14th round — Ch. 3, 1 t. c. into 2 t. c, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, fasten into next same as last until you have 9 loops ending with 2 t. c. into last 2 t. c, ch. 6, 3 s. c. into the 5 s. c. ch. 6. Repeat to end and fasten with s. st. 15th round — Ch. 3, 1 t. c. into 2 t. c, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into same loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 1 t. c. into next loop, ch. 2, 2 t. c. into 2 t. c. ch. 4, 1 t. c. into the 3 s. c., ch. 4, catch hook into first ch. of last 4 ch. Repeat to end and fasten with sl. st. 16th round — Ch. 6, put hook through 2nd ch. to make p., ch. 2, fasten into next loop with sl. st., ch. 6, put hook through 2nd ch. to make p., ch. 2, fasten with sl. st. into next loop to end of round, fasten thread on wrong side. Use No. 50 Royal Society Cotton and No. 14 hook. I. W. S. —— A Prince of Ur. Homespun. Nimrod was moody and sad. He had sought his Rabmags court sorcerers — for comfort and cheer in vain. They had plied their arts to no avail. Augur after augur had been cast, and each had been more gloomy than the last — although the priests had tried in vain to dissemble the results of their incantations. But Nimrod was not so old that he had forgotten his peculiar skill at reading faces and his bold eyes had torn from the inmost thoughts of his attendants the secrets they would fain have hidden from their master's gloomy eyes. "Why does Mardan linger?" he stormed. No one could answer. "Bring me my dancing girls" he commanded sharply. And into his presence they trooped, graceful as gazelles, lithe as their own native acacia trees, beautiful with the dusky bloom of Elam or the fair golden locks of the Western barbarian. Their echoing tamborines and the jingle of their sharp little bangles preceded them as they came with the musical tumult into the Presence. Scarcely had they begun their evolutions before there was a great outcry in the outer courts, and into the very midst of the dancers plunged the form of a richly clad princelet, his fringes torn and just now trailing yards behind, his embroidered abaya, as well as his inner white linen tunic torn into shreds by the two huge dogs which clung to him as he dashed across the hall of Audience in a frenzy of fear and despair. It was Mardan. The black dog was at his throat. "The god of my fathers, with all the demons in hell what is all this?" screamed the monarch, rising on his throne with sudden rage. Even as he spoke, a great crowd of snapping, snarling curs of every description ran into the lighted hall, followed by as many soldiers and slaves, and here and there they ran, upsetting exquisite alabaster vases and ivory tables, crushing delicate idols and tearing the splendid tapestries from the walls as they plunged pell mell across the vast spaces of the great Audience hall. It was but a moment — and the dogs ran out over the court yard, across exquisite flower beds, uprooting choice plants at every leap — up the garden terraces, along the river walls, down the lovely tiled walks that led into the precincts of the Ziggarut proper, and then horror of superstitious horrors — up the Ziggarut steps they plunged soldiers and priests after the pack and as terrace after terrace was mounted, the dogs plunged in wild rage down down first one and then the other until only the black dog was left— with his yellow mate to stand at bay in the very shrine of the gods and there they gave battle to their captors. A dozen priests and bare-legged soldiers had been torn and gashed in the frightful melee. When at last one of the two noble mastiffs had been stretched bleeding and dead, upon the jeweled pavement of the shrine, while the other escaped in wild flight down the terraced steps, the priests were themselves too much overcome with anguish and awe at this malevolent omen to follow the black dog in his downward flight. Quiet and order would be restored after a few hours, well it was but an omen others had failed— why not this? So mused Mardan, who stood watching the flight of the pack of attendants. Not so Nimrod. He cast a glance of bitter hatred at the cause of this new disturbance, and it was only by feigning the most courageous disregard of his late peril or of its dire significance that Mardan could persuade his raging father to listen to his proud, pleading cry. "What am I? That the Son of the Sun should look with forgiveness on the least of his slaves? What then is the intent of my heart? Is it that I shall be forever unhappy at the feet of my lord? Is he a father to deny his son? Or have I trusted in my own thoughts? Have I not walked according to thy word? Has not thy mouth guided my goings forth, and thy counsels, have they not directed me? Have I not dedicated this great festival to thee and filled thy temple with the booty of my spoils? This is thy dwelling for myriads of years. The whole world is gathering together to dedicate its offerings to thee thus I have enriched thy domain. I am the great High Priest of the sacred shrine of Ishtar. I have prepared to be sacrificed three choice damsels, daughters of Onitah, and their own baby brother the innocent offering of his father's breast the head of the son for the head of the father he shall give — the breast of the son for the breast of the father he shall give." The grim and surly humor of the king was visibly shaken by the sound of this proud if somewhat bombastic recital, delivered by a man clothed in torn and tattered raiment who had controlled his own fear through some strong motive, and who now stood, alike fearless of man and of the dark omen of the dogs which had thrust their impious presence into the very sanctuary of the holy Assyrian god — Merodach. "What hast thou further to say to me, prince Mardan?" Nimrod knew very well that all of Mardan's labors and all his lofty avowals were centered on the single point of usurping the post held now by Terah, that of Petesi of Ur for ambition was Mardan's passion — wine and women were but his dalliance. Like father, like son. There was a half doubt, a half pleasure in listening to Mardan's ornate appeal to his vanity. Yet Nimrod was restless, and he must be appeased. Mardan drew the rags of his once elegant attire about him, and with a proud smile of disdain directed at the cowering dancing girls who had shrunk into a far corner when the black dogs had entered the hall, but who now gathered about him in the idle, frivolous fashion common to court favorites — to them Mardan vouchsafed nought but a contemptuous stare. His was higher aim. "Your gracious majesty — O Sun, have I not obeyed the orders of thy lips? And thy counsels, have they not guided me? Have I not given glory to thee, to the ends of the earth?" Now fully appeased, but still furiously impatient, Nimrod paused to make reply in the stately language of the court. "Rejoice and be glad. Behold, I am near thee. My hand is with thee and I am more to thee than a million of men. I have found thy heart firm in valor, and my heart exults thereat. But haste, what of the princess Sarai?" "It is of the Princess Royal I would speak. Behold, she approaches this very hour decked in the royal robes of her father's house, riding in her flower-filled chariot, accompanied by her singing maidens and her tiring maidens, her court maidens and her closet friends in waiting, veiled as the high priestess of Ishtar should be veiled. She appears now at the gates of this palace wall to greet thee and to extend the hand of the neophyte-royal. She comes to seek thy gracious pleasure and after this night's initiation in the mysteries of Mylitta's pavement at the hands of your most glorious majesty shall she not be crowned as the queen Ishtar of the Ziggarut of Ur the goddess of the moon Korash, to sit in the shrine and to deliver to the children of men the oracles of Nimrod-Merodach?" "That is well, Mardan. I could forgive thee much for this one deed of thine. Nimrod hath no place in his memory where his faithful sons have been blotted out from his own triumphs. I like thy speech — I like most pleasing well the tidings thou hast brought. I shall receive the princess Sarai as befits a royal queen of the province of Ur. Let her come into my presence as soon as her train approaches." "A moment, most powerful of gods. There is just one request sent by my lady-queen, and that is —" "Speak it — speak it, Mardan, don't mumble and cringe." "Gracious Sun-god, the princess hath the modesty of her sex, and the right jealousy of her surpassing beauty. She hath put up her petition to the sun-god, that he will permit her to remain veiled in his presence till this evening be gone, lest her eyes should be blinded and her face shrivel in the refulgence of the fire and glory which beams from thy god-like eye." Nimrod sat silent while Mardan stood, pale and yet composed as if he were but the bearer of a maiden's modest wish for proper protection in such strange, sudden and unexpected plight. "Her request shall be on my knees," said Nimrod subtly; "she shall not regret her devotion to my religion and my service." With a swing of his great arms, Nimrod indicated that he would have no more speech. But even as he spoke, the sound of timbals and the tinkling of zithers proclaimed the approach of the royal cortege. They came, one great perfumed mass of flower-wreathed loveliness, their stately carriage and their red-lipped, yet refined physical Semitic luxuriance dimming the glory of their coarser Assyrian sisters of the harem who were the court favorites and dancing women of Nimrod's train. Nimrod saw the elegant sweep of white tissues, the curl of dark eyelashes, the rounded limb of a young goddess here and there in the feminine train which now quite filled his audience chamber. He nodded his approval and the long files opened to admit the more stately approach of a tall and veiled figure that was like a Nile lily sweeping on its wind-tossed stem. There was so much hauteur in the carriage of the head that its lines caught and held the glance of the monarch. There was pride to match his own. There was haughtiness surpassing that of every queen of his long and capricious reign. The long limbs moved with a willowy grace that was almost too seductive. Nimrod frowned. He had caught but one passing glimpse of this secluded beauty in her father's palace — but he had not thought her voluptuous quite the contrary. And yet, in the very panther-like movements of these tissue-clad limbs there was to the practiced eye of the old roue a hint of sophistication which surprised no less than it annoyed. He was visibly disappointed. Yet, he could discover very plainly the rich sweep of midnight hair which escaped its jeweled fillet underneath the filmy veil and fell in midnight wonder to the very ankles of the proud beauty who stood — not with the bowed head of an innocent damsel, but with level eyes studying her captor, as he sat bulked low in the huge carved, golden and ivory throne under its canopy of rich jewels and lustrous tapestries. The girl was undeniably exquisite in her stately uprightness, as she stood, neither speaking nor crouching, but expectant and proudly silent as became a queen of the house of Terah. "My queen, thou hast the favor of thy lord" said Mardan, unable longer to bear the stress of the long and breathless silence. "At the feet of my lord, the king, my god, my sun-god, seven times seven I prostrate myself. Seven times seven I kiss the hem of thy robes, my lord, and my god." At the softly spoken words the damsel had slipped to the floor, and over the huge sandalled feet of the king, she let the trailing glory of her hair sweep like a veil of perfumed silence. The touch was wine in Nimrod's veins. "The shadow of the glorious sun-goddess which I waited for is in thy face and form, be thou who thou mayest be. In that shadow my soul shall abide for this hour — the king hath sworn it — leave us." With an outward commanding gesture, the monarch swept the mass of idle courtiers and attendants out of his presence, leaving only his private retinue. Mardan was also excluded from the approaching festivities which were to be royally private as befitted the exclusive dignity of a king. And Mardan was glad to go, for he had other and vastly important business which awaited consummation. He withdrew with pompous ceremony, folding his torn garments about him. Nimrod gave the signal for the entertainment to begin. He had planned to astonish his fair guest with his kingly gorgeousness rather than to awe her with any glimpse of his great personal prowess, for with the contempt of the strong for their own strength, he delighted more in those qualities which were entirely apart from his brute triumphs. The princess should be wooed with the graces of the court, not crushed by the coarse evidences of his physical supremacy. Nimrod was a cunning man. And with that cunning he united some of the artistic fancies which had come down to him from his remote ancestors on the maternal side — Tubal and Tubal-Cain. The court musicians struck up their clashing melodies. Out from the dusky recesses of the far end of the now dimly lighted audience hall, treading lightly between the huge carved and fluted pillars of the wonderful chamber, came a vast procession of slaves, bearing fruit baskets of silvered wire, with salvers of gold on which rested great clusters of dark and white grapes, globes of juicy apricots, dates and figs, and yellow-red pomegranates — followed by the cup-bearers holding aloft their precious vintages, no less costly than the jeweled chalices in which they sparkled and glowed. And as this artistically arranged procession reached the foot of the throne, the lights of the palace were suddenly increased a thousand fold, so that the princess might behold upon the frieze of the walls the presentment of the very scene she was witnessing, embossed and carved in exquisitely conceived colors and rainbow-tinted relievo. She gasped with keen, apprehensive pleasure. Nimrod was reproducing in her his own late surprised joy. Next followed a band of stringed musicians, the chords of delight struck upon their quivering harmonies vibrated from nerve to nerve of the charmed listeners. These were youths, clad in the court garments of white linen, here and there jewelled fillets caressing their tightly curled locks which hung upon their shoulders, and from their scanty yet gleaming white attire wafted great billowing waves of perfumes of the sandalwood which formed their lyres. Anon they tapped their sandals with muffled insistence on the richly tiled floors of the hall. After these came a certain few of the court dancing women. And the exquisite coloring of their filmy orange, blue, red, gold, or silver robes dazzled the eyes of the onlooker. For the colors were carefully graded symbols of the accepted shades of the seven planets. As they circled or twisted in slow and lovely rhythms, the artistic blending of their rainbow effects was so thrilling that the girl who sat at the feet of the king almost swooned with sensuous delight. Their perfumes were attar of roses in delicious restraint of suggestiveness rather than open oppressiveness. Back of these came other dancers, and these increased the rapidity of their movements, but their robes were of pale shadowy tints as became the daughters of Babylonian princes. These were followed again by the trained Egyptian muscle dancers. Their swart, yet elegantly supple bodies were almost nude, only the flashing jeweled girdles masked their slim and delicately moulded bodies. As they began their swirling movements, the veiled princess on the throne steps hid her eyes under her hands. It was the first time she had ever seen these far-famed dancers from the Egyptian courts of the Pharaohs. But as no one spoke to her, she gradually lifted up her eyes, for she was determined that she would not lack in any essential which could catch and hold the errant fancy of this huge monarch of the whole earth. The perfumes rising from the incense bowls did not overpower the subtler but more penetrating unguents of the Jatamansi or spikenard which floated about these stationary writhers like a circular spiral, uprising cloud of ethereal suggestion. The entranced and excited girl on the steps of the throne was by this time convinced that the things taking place before her eyes were so rarely conceived in their gradations of color, sound and motion that generations of artists' dreams had evolved the final perfection of their composition. Her perception of the perfumes which had one by one assailed her sensitive nostrils proved that they had been chosen with no less artistic thought than were the other features of this gorgeous and inconceivable entertainment. That the refined and luxurious Chaldeans loved perfumes as her own people did music she had known for long. But that they could deliberately steal from the sacred sanctuary its secrets of odors with which to entrance the senses of the courtier was of itself a startling, yet not unpleasant sensation. She lifted her delicate nostrils and drew in deeply the mystic spell of the sensuous perfumes drifting about her in the lofty spaces of the great Hall of Audience. Ah, why should Abram deny to her all the dear delights of music, and color and perfume just to focus them upon the worship of a god whose very Name was not even to be pronounced. How different was this adulation of her own person and the individual kingly effort to win her smiles and her heart. She was touched to the core of her vain, selfish, sordid soul. This was the true meaning of Life. To enjoy to give and to receive the pleasure of the senses. With the thought, she lifted up her arms unconsciously, and caressed the feet, huge and sinewy, of the king at whose feet she lay. A scream rang through the palace. Another and another, mingled with swift Assyrian curses, and the hoarse bellowing of a dog whose baying wrath smote upon the perfumed silence of the hall within with cruel suddenness. It was the great black dog returning from the chase around the terrace and grounds of the Ziggarut. Straight for the throat of Nimrod the great beast came in leaps and bounds with hanging tongue blood-red, and foam-flecked driveling jaws. He stayed not, nor did he falter. The monarch turned with ashy paleness at the ill-omened intrusion, but he was Nimrod still. He arose to his full height swiftly and braced himself for the charge. He would not even deign to go down from his throne steps to meet the black precursor of evil tidings. But he did turn and sweep the girl on the throne steps into safety behind his seat. She stood upright, determined to see the whole scene. And such a scene Nimrod caught the maddened beast in his two great hands, and at first he simply twisted the neck of the dog and threw him from him. But the dog rose up arching his back in agony, and spat out his vomit upon the very steps where the princess had been sitting. Reaching down, Nimrod seized the brute, and with tremendous grip he tore from its roots the tongue of the crazed animal, and flung it far from him. The dog fought wildly and flung himself from his grasp as he swung voiceless, soundless and blood-dripping around and around the whole area of that huge vast hall, the dancers and musicians huddling in terror-stricken groups, while the screaming girls clung to each other or some disengaged man with wild and terrible agony. Suddenly some dancer moaned out as if the words were torn from her body "An omen — an omen—" Instantly Nimrod was down from the throne, and catching the brute who had been allowed by the terror-stricken attendants free passage between their helpless ranks, he seized the body of the animal, and actually crushed its bones into jelly as he encircled the quivering and soon lifeless body. He flung it from him as if it had been a mouse. A PRINCE OF UR. 393 A few steps from him the poor frightened girl was prone upon the floor moaning her plaint "It is an omen— an omen — O Nindar preserve us from the Maskin an omen And without a moment's hesitation, as soon as Nimrod had finished his slaughter of the brute, he seized the quivering form of the girl and strangled her remorselessly. He turned thundering to his guards, who by this time had rushed pell-mell into the hall, and bellowed at them "Death to all cowards. Strike, I say strike." A scene of confusion and murder followed which were impossible to describe. Surely, the princess had been witness to the brute forces which kept this relentless giant on his throne. But when Nimrod approached her in the midst of the screaming carnage, she merely stepped out from behind the throne to receive his bloody hand and together they left the hall, now crowded with the attendants and the fully cowed priests and courtiers. Nimrod bent graciously above this girl whose fierce spirit had risen up ruthlessly to answer the supreme challenge of his mighty soul. She was his physical mate, young as she was, old as he might be! Together they left the hall In the inner chamber, the king sat upon his couch, the princess beside him. After the magnificent banquet, the rich entertainment, the varied pleasures, and the awful horrors had closed in the early evening's strange surprises, Nimrod stood before his captive, and with the puzzled frown still upon his brow, he said "Like and yet unlike. Not Sarai and yet thou hast pride, courage and will thou art not that being of supreme charm and beauty, the Princess Sarai. Who and what art thou?" The girl sat at his feet, her head bowed in her hands, the veil of her seclusion still folded about her brows. "I am a princess of the house of Terah. The sister's sister of that other proud and self-willed Sarai, whom all men and women love because of her superior arts and her more finished graces. Me they tolerate her they adore. What have I done? What have I left undone? Every lesson in grace and culture that she has learned hath been conned by me. Every toil that she has undertaken I have duplicated. And yet, to her is given the crown of supremacy, to me the girdle of jealous bondage. And now even my veil will not suffice to make me as Sarai in the eyes of my lord." The sobbing breaths of the proud confession struck the remains of chivalry that still lingered in the heart of the huge man who bent above her, himself half repelled and half fascinated by her unearthly charm. "Be thou what thou art, but be jealous of no woman. It is the canker which eats out the heart of human souls as rust doth consume the iron wedge. Jealousy is a rage of kings, but becomes a sword in the breast of a tender woman." "Even thou dost assail me," she wept with bitter unrestraint. Nimrod soothed and scolded the girl. But after all, he was grateful for the unusual diversion after this swift and omen-plagued evening and he was disposed to be more than ordinarily gracious and forgiving for both the deception practiced upon him and the disappointment to his highest hopes. There were other days and nights. Sarai was still to be conquered. Just now the business in hand was quite sufficient. Suddenly in the still watches of the night the ghostly howl of a dog sounded long and penetrating through all the corridors of the Ziggarut. Nimrod ran instantly into his audience chamber. With the rage of a wild animal, he beat upon his hands for his frightened attendants. It was the omen — the omen Lights fluttered and came up, courtiers and soldiers and priests gathered in the Audience hall of the Ziggarut. Nimrod stood like a huge, restless ghost. Behind him walked the daughter of Terah — Iscah with no trace of cowardice or shrinking in her soul. She might lack many lovable traits, but the courage of her race, reinforced by the teachings of her childhood which protected her from the childish torments of the superstitious, made her at this juncture the ideal counselor of the king. And still at intervals, sounded the faint, ghastly echo of that dog's braying. With a proud sweep of her uncovered arms, her face glowing with the fires of a thousand vaulting hopes and worldly ambitions, this far from happy, but vain-glorious girl now set herself to use the gifts of her prophetic ancestry to stay the wild disorder she saw sweeping through the palace, all because of a howling, ghostly dog, somewhere in the distance across the courts. Iscah stood up veiled and prophetic beside Nimrod. "Ishtar says," quoth the girl in her wild ecstasy, "fear not, Nimrod. The breath of inspiration which speaks to thee is spoken to me, and I conceal it not. Thine enemies shall melt away from before thy feet like the floods of Sivan. I am the mighty mistress Ishtar of Arbella who will put thine enemies to flight before thy feet." All eyes were turned, in the flaring oil torches of sudden lighting, upon the uplifted face of the princess of the house of Terah. She stood with both arms extended and lifted above her head, her face as colorless as alabaster walls of the palace chamber under the tissues of her veil. Her eyes gleamed like stars, and she was the incarnation of unearthly inspiration. Some of the dancing girls who had crowded into the hall, shrank in grave fear before the fierce gleam of her eyes, and the piercing tones of her high-pitched voice. But Nimrod lowered his scepter before her and his face lighted with renewed hope and courage. This was the very tonic he needed. As the instant pause was made, there issued from some inner courtyard the crude spitting and yowling of a score of cats and instantly there was another scene of confusion. Two death omens in one night was unbearable to these superstitious Chaldeans. But in the midst of it all the voice of the girl rang out like the clarion call of a soul seated on the heights of human courage, gazing with unholy awe upon the decrees writ in the spirit world. "Fear not, O Nimrod. I am Ishtar of Arbella. Where are the words which I spake unto thee? Thine enemies, the Urkians, do I give unto thee. I am Ishtar of Arbella. In front of thee and at thy side do I go, I march. Fear not, thou art in the midst of these that can heal thee and guard thee. I shall be in the midst of thine host. I advance, I stand still. This is the torture of thine enemies which thou hast heard presaged before thee this night." Her words acted like some strong stimulant to the jaded monarch's courage. Some long-forgotten remembrance of the true prophetic gifts of the house of Shem entered into his soul and he felt that there must be some truth in what the girl was crying. He would be all man all king. These sorceries and witchcrafts were all-sufficient to his blind and cruel followers they were the leash with which he held them down. But for himself— was he not a high priest after the order of the Divine One? Did he not possess the royal garments and the robe of the priesthood which his father Cush had given him after it was stolen from Noah by Ham in the ark? He would have done with childish fears. And he would command the forces of nature by right of his inherited priesthood. He would put on the robes of his priesthood. "What ho— begin thy labors. Nimrod will prepare at once for the sacrifices of Ishtar." "Spoken like a king and a high priest," cried Iscah boldly. She loved courage in man as she loved her own vanity. And together, Nimrod and his newly chosen queen hurried to their chamber to prepare for the midnight ceremony. (to be continued.) Home Science Department. Janette A. Hyde. Utah should be intensely interested in the manufacture and consumption of sugar. The use of sugar is of exceedingly recent origin. Only a century old, so to speak. The sugar-cane was known by the ancient Arabs and Egyptians, but was used very little. It was introduced by the Arabs in Egypt and the southern part of Europe in the middle ages. From 1420 its cultivation spread somewhat through the tropical countries and was brought over to the West Indies in 1641. It flourishes only in tropical countries. Maple-sugar is a native American product. Cane-sugar was not manufactured to any extent until the year 1830. In India the juice is still extracted by hand in small roller mills. The sugar-beet is a cultivated variety of mangel-wurzel. A Berlin chemist in 1760 discovered the sugar from this white variety of beet and France at once set about its cultivation. Both Strabo and Marco Polo describe for us the use of cane-sugar among the East Indians, but even they knew nothing of the wonderful sugar-beet. The first sugar-beet factory was established in Selesia in 1801. It was not, however, until after 1830 that it secured a firm footing even in Europe. As late as 1840 the world's whole production of cane-sugar was 1,000,000 tons, of beet sugar 50,000 tons. In 1900 the world's production was 2,850,000 tons of cane-sugar and 5,950 tons of beet-sugar. The first sugar factory built in Utah was the Lehi plant, in 1891, in which year they turned out 1,000,000 pounds of sugar. We now have seven factories in this state, and in 1914 the farmers of Utah raised and delivered to the sugar companies 613,840 tons of beets for which they were paid $3,000,000. The beets produced 76,000 tons of finished sugar. An army of men were employed to work these beets, over 100,000 tons of coal was used, 35,000 tons of lime rock, 7,000 tons of coke and several hundred thousand dollars' worth of other manufacturing material. Utah ranks fourth among the States of the Union in its production of sugar and number of factories, Colorado being first, with fourteen factories, California second in production, with eleven factories, and Michigan third, with fifteen factories. Idaho has four factories, and produces about half as much sugar as Utah, and less than Montana, which has but one factory. About ten factories are idle this year, a fact principally due to the removal of nearly all of the tariff duty on sugar, and the fear of free sugar, which was to become effective May 1, 1916, but which the government was afraid to enforce. The production of HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 397 sugar in the United States in 1913-14 was 638,400 tons, Utah giving 76,000 tons of that amount. Only one-fifth of Utah made sugar is locally consumed. The balance finds a market in other states. Sugar has been protected by legislation in every country of the world. The bounty system of Europe (which means that the government has aided the sugar producers by giving a bounty), induced the British government to endeavor to regulate this bounty question. They met in 1888 and did nothing but talk about it. They met again in 1896 and again did nothing but talk about it. The European powers met in 1898, all but France, who was then the great sugar producing country, wanted regulation. In 1907 the British Minister Grey again tried to induce the other countries to lower their bounty standards. Imagine what it would have meant to Utah had our government forced the ill-begotten law on May first of this year, lifting the bounty off of American sugar. The one great financial difficulty that faces us now as a state and as a nation, is to get the sugar-beet seed from Europe where it is grown. In domestic uses sugar is an invaluable adjunct to the table. It is a stimulant and heat producing material when eaten in any of its forms. It is a great preservative for fruit as every housewife knows. Its myriad uses begin with medicines and end with candy. There is no question but what Americans use too much candy, but scientists have discovered that sugar, eaten in moderation, satisfies the craving for stimulants, and it is now supplied to armies in vast quantities. There has been some prejudice against beet-sugar, but loyal Utah housewives do not share in these prejudices. The United States Agricultural Department, through scientific experiments, announced that beet sugar was the peer of all sugar manufactured for every purpose and anyone who says anything to the contrary is talking fables and nonsense. Sugar may be rising so is flour and meat and vegetables. We have to live, we housewives, and keep our families well fed, no matter if it does cost us money to do so. We suggest a little less use of candy and a little more use of sugar in simple desserts and fruit. FRUIT DRYING. This is the month when good housewives will begin to think about fruit drying whether they do it or not. It is a grievous social sin that fruit should be grown and left to rot by the hundreds of bushels on the ground. Invidious freight rates may cause a portion of that waste, but the women of the Relief Society can do something towards correcting the evil. We suggest that fruit drying parties be given in every ward where fruit is raised, and that not an apple, peach, plum, pear or apricot shall be wasted that can be properly dried. Peel your peaches and apples, discard the decayed ones watch the drying fruit that it is not rained upon, cover it with mosquito bar and keep just as clean as is possible. Did you ever make peach leather and apple butter? We suggest that you try these pioneer delicacies this year. The Home Science Department and their associate committees in the stake and ward boards will be glad to act as a clearing house for the distribution of dried fruit where any ward has a surplus and can afford to give the same to the poor in wards where they have none. Sweet corn should also be dried, taking pains to select the best corn, which has not been allowed to get too ripe and drying it in the usual approved fashion. The Horsley Brothers of Brigham City and the Co-operative Store in Pleasant Grove carry delicious dried fruits in the fall months at very reasonable prices. Mrs. Sarah Hovey, Millville, Utah, puts up hundreds of pounds of delicious dried corn if the order is sent in in the summer time. Please let this department know what you are doing in the drying of fruit for distribution to the poor. MISCELLANEOUS. Cheese cloth bags filled with bran are excellent for cleaning wall paper. Bran bags are used instead of soap, for the face and hands. It is also used for washing delicate fabrics instead of soap water. Bran water is just as effective, and is not injurious. Cleaning Linoleum. Go over your linoleum once a week with a cloth dipped in a mixture of equal parts of turpentine and linseed oil. It will make the linoleum look like new. When making a bread or custard pudding, try flavoring it with essence of ginger, it gives a delicious flavor. Use about the same amount as you would lemon or vanilla. The use of tissue paper cannot be too highly recommended for greasing bread or cake tins. It is also very useful for wiping off grease from pots and pans, before putting in dish-water. It is also very useful in giving a polish to glassware and windows. Stale Bread. Cut your stale bread into finger lengths, dip in milk for a minute, put on a buttered tin in the oven until crisp, spread with butter, and serve while hot, with jam or syrup. Current Topics. James H. Anderson. The Telephone controversy in Salt Lake County took an unusual course — it went in favor of the customers. Preparedness for war has swung to the other limit of the pendulum from the ultra peace propaganda of two years ago in the United States. The Filipinos will not be independent of the United States for some time to come, the bill for granting independence to the Philippines having failed in Congress. Equal Suffragists are making great headway in national lines. The immediate future may not record complete success, but a victorious conclusion is drawing rapidly near. U. S. Ambassador Gerard, at Berlin, says peace is on the way. As yet he has failed to furnish a time-schedule for its journey. The Norway Fish-catch for 1916 has been purchased by Great Britain, thus forming another link in the starvation blockade against Germany. High Taxes add to the high cost of living in Utah this year, and many are the protests that go up to the boards of equalization in every county of the State and the end is not yet. Bulgarian Troops have entered Greece, and there has been fighting with the British and French troops. Constantine's kingdom is thus getting a taste of war, even though he will not fight. Three Eggs a Week and no meat for certain periods in Germany is a government regulation there which indicates anything but a well-fed people —but it is war. Italy has met with a severe military defeat at the hands of Austrian troops, thereby losing advantages heretofore gained by almost a year of hard fighting. War and rumors of war still mark the ascending scale, the 400 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. latest threatened field being South America, where three new revolutions have broken out during the past month. Jesse Gesas, the Salt Lake automobilist who ran his car into and killed two young people who had just alighted from a streetcar, has been convicted of involuntary manslaughter. This action by the courts may prove a salutary lesson to automobile "speeders." Air Raids in the European war zone do not seem to diminish in frequency, notwithstanding the fact that the number of aerial warriors to be brought down is increasing with considerable rapidity. Gasoline is so scarce in Germany owing to war needs that U. S. Ambassador Gerard has had to give up his automobile trips in Berlin. The experience may keep him among the peace advocates for this country. At Verdun, France, the German assault has lasted for more than 100 days, with little gain in territory, and the loss of nearly 400,000 men the French lines holding with considerable firmness, and losses about two-thirds those of the Germans. Berlin says it does not want President Wilson as a peacemaker in Europe. But, then, the kaiser need not fear any offer of the President's services —these may be enforced by a sterner hand when the game is finally called. Amalgamation of the interurban electric lines running from Payson, Utah, to Preston, Idaho, a distance of over 200 miles, is being sought by the management of the now three distinct companies. This would make of all the line an inter-state railway. Community Cooking has been adopted in some parts of Germany as a means of conserving the food supply and as affording opportunity for its equitable distribution. At any rate, all should get the same quality of food. Another Beet Sugar Factory for Utah. This one is to be erected on the west side of Cache Valley, arrangements therefor having been definitely made. Which means thousands of dollars' increase to our Utah farmers. Wire-tapping of the telephone system in New York has resulted in the indictment there of the mayor and a police commissioner. It is held that such a theft of information is not made justifiable by reason of the "tappers" holding public office. Louis D. Brandeis has been confirmed as justice of the United States Supreme Court the only instance in American history where a person against whom such accusations were made has received the approving vote of a majority of the Senate. Venustiano Carranza, whom President Wilson's Mexican policy aided materially in placing at the head of our southern neighbor's national affairs, has turned on the hand that befriended him, and the outlook for relations between this country and Mexico seems darker than at any time during the past three years. Indian War Veterans in Utah are given another concession in the way of government pensions. Congressman Joseph Howell has worked persistently for this for twelve years past, and has won his contention against great odds. When the bill had passed the House, the two Utah Senators were not slow in getting it through the Senate. Another Mexican Raid into United States territory occurred on May 6, and the raiders were pursued across the line by American troops, who killed or captured many of the bandits. Foreign Minister Aguilar of Mexico announced that the raid was organized in the United States— a specimen of Mexican official prevarication which is becoming frequent. An Anti-prohibition campaign in Utah has been inaugurated by certain interests represented by Robert W. Brown of Cleveland, O., and some Utah politicians not in harmony with the temperance sentiment now generally prevalent in this part of the country. "Business clubs" are being organized to fight prohibition. But the people are wise to this subterfuge. Great Britain has advised all its representatives in the United States to observe carefully the laws of this country. This counsel was given before there were any prosecutions of British representatives for violating those laws. Germany has given similar advice, but not until a number of Germans had been indicted and one of the indicted Teutons, Captain Boy-Ed, was specially honored by the kaiser when he left this country because of unneutral conduct. Plain Gossip. By Mrs. Grundy. "I don't know what I'm going to do," I says to Car'line, as me and her was rocking on her front porch. "I am plain crazy over my Ted." "What's the matter with Ted?" she sez. "Hain't you seen him with one o' them cigarettes in his mouth, skulking behind your barn?" "No I ain't," she says, "and if I did I wouldn't be a'tall surprised." "What d' you mean Car'line?" says I. "I mean just what I said," says she, "I wouldn't be one mite surprised to see your boys smoking cigarettes nor your man drinking beer." "Here, Car'line, what's come over you to talk like that? What's me and my family done to you that you make such a crack as that for, at us?" "Nothing to me Marthy, it's what you're doing to yourself and your family." At that I just bridled and sassed back. "Well, Car'line, I come to talk things over a little and not to git insulted right on your own porch." And I ris' right up and started home. "Keep your jacket on, Marthy," says she, "and sit right down. I have been waiting for years for this here chance to speak my mind to you, and I am going to do it right now." I guess my cheeks was burning and I took pretty mad, so Car'line caught hold of my hand and says: "Now, Marthy, you have got considerable sense in your head, in spite of the fact that you weigh 180 pounds without your shoes. You just set right down and listen to your best friend and take your medicine. I ain't seen your boy smoking cigarettes nor your man drinking beer, but I just wondered and wondered and wondered how in the name of common sense you can drink coffee for breakfast and tea for dinner, day after day, and day after day, and expect your folks to have more sense 'en you've got. I should think that coffee'd choke you every time you take a mouthful. You being Ted's mother, and the Lord expecting you to set an example to him, makes it a heap sight worse for you to drink coffee and tea than it would if you was an old maid. They're talking a whole lot 'bout getting prohibition, and you just better believe I am going to work to get it, hard as I know how, but it clean beats me to see anyone professing to be a 'Mormon' fighting for prohibition when they pour tea and coffee down their throats all the time." "Land o' mercy," I says, then, "do you think coffee is as bad as tobacco?" "I certainly think it breaks the Word of Wisdom, just as bad 'en when a mother 'lows herself to set such bad examples for her children, how can she expect them to be stronger and wiser 'en she is? Mind you, I never expect to clean out all the bad men out of this here state when we git prohibition, but I certainly do expect the women who belong to this here Relief Society 'ill have sense enough and religion enough to start the thing right by quitting all their tea and coffee. That is the kind o' prohibition talk I am going to talk," she says, says she. "And what about all this chocolate candy the girls make now days and stuff by the pound?" says I. "Pretty nigh as bad," says she. "Our girls git a cocaine jag on them every time they git outside o' a pound box of chocolate candy." "I thought these doctors tell," I sez, "that a little home-made candy's all right," I sez. "A little maybe," she flares back, "maybe it is— two pieces, not two pounds!" "There's one sentence in the Word of Wisdom that mighty few people read, that all good things of the earth are for man, but are to be 'used with prudence.' Prudence, that's the word. There's scarcely a man or woman in this Church but what eats for the pleasure of it, and not for the prudence of it." "Yes," I says, "I guess we ought not to eat meat, if we keep the Word of Wisdom." "Now, Marthy," she says, says she, "you go home and read your Doctrine and Covenants and you will find it told plain there that he that sayeth not to eat meat the same is not of God. All things is ordained for man to be used with prudence." "Even tea and coffee," I says. "No," she says, says she. "They might be a good medicine, but nobody ever keeps 'em strictly for medicine; they just drink it cause it tastes good, that's all and 'cause it feels good, and the selfish, disobedient motive which makes you drink tea and coffee is the very same motive which makes Ted smoke his cigarette. They's stimulants in whiskey, tobacco, tea and coffee, and they's all included in the 'Mormon' prohibition," she says. "You just go home, Marthy, and think over this tea and coffee proposition. I want you to help me get prohibition this fall and you can't start out to tell other folks to keep the Word of Wisdom when you break it yourself." Notes from the Field. Amy Brown Lyman. Among the many splendid branches working under the virile presidency of Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth of the Northwestern States Mission is the Relief Society of the Evansville Branch, a picture of which we here reproduce. It is a pleasure to be thus associated with our sisters out in the mission in the good work of the Relief Society. Benson Stake. On Tuesday, May 2nd, Miss Gertrude McCheyne of the Agricultural College lectured before the Relief Society of Richmond on the Household Budget. There were present at the meeting 105 members, 5 stake officers and 40 teachers. After the meeting luncheon was served to all present. Bear River Stake. A very pleasant social and surprise was recently tendered to Mrs. Mosiah Evans, First Counselor of the Bear River Stake, at the Garland Ward chapel, just before her removal to Spanish Fork, Utah. The social was given in the form of a farewell party and a tribute to Mrs. Evans for her faithful labors in the Relief Society. Mrs. D. E. Manning presided, and beside the stake and local officers and workers in the Society, there were in attendance the Stake Presidency and their wives, a number of High Councilors and Bishops and their wives. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 405 A very interesting program was carried out and an excellent luncheon was served in cafeteria style. Carnations and other beautiful flowers were used as decorations. Mrs. Evans was presented with an engraved gold ring made from Utah gold, and a book of poems, "Musings and Memories," by Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells. South Sanpete Stake. Mrs. Jane H. Bench, First Counselor in the South Sanpete Stake, recently retired from the Stake Presidency on account of ill health. The stake officers held a party in honor of Sister Bench and an enjoyable program was given and refreshments served. Mrs. Bench was presented with a copy of the book of poems, "Musings and Memories," by Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells. Mrs. Bench has for twenty-two years been a faithful worker in the Relief Society, holding offices both in the Ward and in the Stake. The Salt Lake Stake authorities have joined with the Stake Relief Society officers to make a thorough canvass of that whole Stake in the interest of the Living Record sheet. Each ward has called from forty to fifty special workers, taking them from the various auxiliary organizations to visit the homes of the people and to assist the people in preparing a sheet for each individual in the ward. These sample sheets will be filed in the Stake archives and will, no doubt, later become a part of the Church collection in the Genealogical Society's archives. Panguitch Stake. Escalante Ward, in the Panguitch Stake of Zion, has done a very excellent work in securing donations amounting to $59.00 in clothing, shoes and cash for the benefit of the poor of that ward. They had a successful sewing bee one day recently for a bereaved family. The mother died three days after that, leaving her widowed husband and five small children to mourn her loss. We join with the sisters of that ward in offering consolation to the mourning husband and children. Donations to Bishops. Besides all of the charity work that is done by the Relief Society, the various organizations are constantly being called upon by the bishops to assist financially with various undertakings in the wards. They are frequently asked to donate furniture, carpets, electric light fixtures for the ward churches, etc., etc. The Malad Stake recently paid $200.00 for carpet for the stake tabernacle. The Bingham Stake Relief Society during the last year, raised and donated $413.30 for electric fixtures for the Latter-day Saints Auditorium recently erected at Idaho Falls. 406 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. In a letter, dated December 13th, from Mapusaga Tutuila, Samoa, Mrs. Jennie L. Smith writes for outlines suitable to be used among the native sisters of these Islands. She states that these women are very anxious to learn of the Relief Society work in general and to take up cooking and sewing. We were delighted to get a message from far-away Samoa, and to learn that our members in this land are anxious to keep in touch with the work at home. A question has been sent to the office asking if a Relief Society member may receive credit on the Relief Society charity records for her individual charity work. The Relief Society books record only such charity work as is done by and through the officers and members of the organization in their official capacity. The Relief Society of Colonia, Dublan, in Old Mexico, have forwarded to this office $11.00 as their donation for their Temple Day. Think of this, sisters, you who dwell in the peaceful, favored wards and stakes of this country These Mexican refugees have done more accordingly for this purpose than any stake in Zion. The General Board are especially touched and pleased with this evidence of faith and generosity on the part of our sisters in war-stricken Mexico. Conferences in all of the distant stakes have occupied the spring months, our Board members going out to visit them. All have reported splendid results of the new activities instituted in our Society during the last few years. The Guide Lessons are greatly enjoyed and are bringing into the Society the young married women in the communities the Nurse Class work is growing in value and importance, while the Magazine is universally popular and receives commendation in all quarters. The General Board rejoice greatly in the spirit of unity and willing endeavor which fills every stake visited this spring. Revelry. By Maud Baggarley. The hope of the Earth is its children And yet, at thy unclean breast Thou dost suckle the heirs of the Ages, Thou woman in scarlet dressed. Subduing the mocking laughter, Teaching them at the knee, To scorn the course that comes after A glad, mad, revel with thee. Nor see beneath the garlands, That hide his poison breath, The waiting leer in the cynic eyes Of the unfleshed form of Death Who lurks behind the wanton, Singing beneath the sky Her wildest song of folly, As she lures youth forth to die. Oh, the Lord shall arise and smite thee, And scourge thee in righteous ire Who barters thy motley and tinsel For the flame of pure desire, That God, Himself, didst kindle To light man's altar fire. Genealogical Notes. Many letters are received in this office concerning the preparation of the individual genealogical sheet. The question asked is — Shall the individual's parents and family be given on the outside of the sheet or that of her husband and herself and family? As a matter of fact, it makes little difference which family is chosen for the outside of the sheet. No dates are given and no genealogy at all is provided for on that side of the sheet. It must be remembered that this sheet is simply a sample sheet taken from the Living Record Book. We have recommended the preparation of it with two purposes in view. One is to secure, if possible, a genealogical record of every woman in the Relief Society, which shall be filed finally in the archives of the Genealogical Society of Utah. The second purpose, which is vastly more important, is to convert every woman in this Society to the pressing necessity of her securing a Living Record Book, and there to record every bit of information she can set down concerning her family and her husband's family. In the Living Record Book there are 20 sheets for family groups and individual sheets in which to record all of the data concerning these families to the number of 100. So you see, sisters, that in this simple sheet it does not matter much whose particular family is named, but it does matter that you shall write out all your own genealogy on the inside and file that sheet with the secretary of your Society. Another question that has been asked a great deal is concerning the names which are to be used by the Relief Society sisters when they go to the Temple in an official body. Some misunderstanding has arisen because of an unfortunate paragraph in the February number of the Magazine on page 114. The so-called charity lists there mentioned have made so much difficulty even before the Magazine was published and after that paragraph was in print that the General Board passed the resolution found on page 110. We ask you, therefore, to govern yourselves by the note on page 110: "All genealogical visits to be reported on the blanks are the official visits paid to the Temple by the ward Relief Society members and private visits by individuals to Temples need not be recorded." There the names may be furnished by the Relief Society or by the individual. If there is an understanding with the ward presidents the visits may be accepted as official, whether taken from charity lists or from individual lists. EDITORIAL Entered at second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. III. JULY, 1916. No. 7. WHO CAN HELP ME? Not all the king's horses nor all the king's men can put an egg together again. When the body has broken with the over-strain of modern life, and the spirit runs out to spread itself despairingly over the ruins, life is like a broken egg, and the soul is flat and spent with the awful effort of breathing. The faculties are held in a misty suspension, the grinding pressure of the daily world-wheels press upon the brain with inconceivable torture. We are spilled out of God's hand, and neither time nor eternity possesses form or cohesion. How we long for help, for any help human or divine. And human skill is so much nearer, so much easier to secure. We cry out for human aid God is so long in reaching us —we say. On our bosom lies the agonized child whose The Sick fluttering breath creeps in dying gasps over Child. the twitching lips. Earth, men, hope, loves — all are as phantoms. We swing suspended in a universe whose immensity is the greater for the little body at its throbbing center. All the processes of nature cease, the demands of living creatures do not exist for us until the little gasping breath is still. 410 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The night is a gaping, open tomb to sick Weeping Enfancies. All the fears, the dread images, the dures Through panting terrors which hide away, when the the Night. sunshine and children are awake and about, come trooping out of their lairs and camp on the pillow and about the bedside of the lonely sufferer. Not for the world will we rouse the tired watcher by the bedside, nor disturb the sleeping husband. If it were pain, ah, then we could call and all would hear and spring to instant help. But these awful fears the vast troop of "what ifs" the fear of a fear the forecast the gloomy clutch of past sorrows or mistakes these are without form and void, and not sufficiently grave to justify our selfish longing for human help and sympathy. And so we lie and suffer —we feel the point of every hair on our head the quivering nerves almost snap! Sleep sleep who said that sleep was man's common heritage? Not we who toss and pray and weep and shrivel with our fears. Hark! The baby's breath. Was there not a rasping sound to that? Down into the pit of our fears, the dear Lord Hope's Ladder, places a ladder of hope. It is there each round is dully gold in the twilight of our suffering. We set foot there again and again, but we are too weak too impatient to climb slowly and steadily. And so we thrust it away, and go on suffering, and agonizing. Our darkness is unlit, the pit is too deep, the ladder is too frail. The first step breaks so often that we bring the whole ladder tumbling about our ears while we lie crushed beneath its weight. Another weapon for our release the Lord The Trowel throws down to us. The trowel of faith. of Faith. About us lie the ruins of our body like useless bricks about a fallen building. We may mend them slowly up again, if we will. It happens some rare times ah, what a happening is there that Jesus in His mercy seizes the trowel and with one stroke replaces the structure as it was—clean, whole, comely. But He rarely does this He might do so oftener if we only asked Him oftener but He has taught us how to build again the shattered body, placing brick on brick, moistening the mortar with our nightly tears, and using that strong, sure trowel of faith. Have you tried building thus a worn-out tabernacle? God is our help, now as in ages past. Not a He is Our passive help, but an ever-present, ever active Help. and constructive help. We may be sick, we may be sorry, but we need not stay so long. He is there, just behind the cloud. He and His angels are everywhere. But unless you want His help, ask for it, crave it, pray for it, you will not get it. His common gifts of light and life EDITORIAL. 411 He gives to all. But if you want a special gift, you must make a special prayer. If you want help from a skilful physician, you must ask for it and then you pay the price. He comes to you again, and yet again. 'Tis so with God. He sends His healing angel to you once and yet again, and still again. Says the gracious mother of the Prophet in her history, speaking about one of her many healings (page 221): "The next morning after our arrival, the family being absent, I seized the opportunity to make an effort to get far enough from home to pray without interruption. Accordingly I took a staff in each hand, and by the assistance which they afforded me, I was enabled to reach a dense thicket, which lay some distance from the house. As soon as I was sufficiently rested to speak with ease, I commenced calling upon the Lord, beseeching Him to restore me to health, as well as my daughter Catherine. I urged every claim which is afforded us by the Scriptures, and continued praying faithfully for three hours, at the end of which time I was relieved from every kind of pain my cough left me, and I was well." Think healthful thoughts. Say peaceful Help Yourself, words. Say over and over, in your mind, hymns or psalms. Refuse to think of your sorrow or your pain. Tell your will to obey your spirit. Don't be crushed or disheartened by constant defeat. You will not die till your time comes, nor will your loved ones, unless you open the door to death and invite him in through your allowing morbid fancies, and your constant talk and thought about your own symptoms and fears or that of your dear ones, to weaken and destroy your citadel. You refuse to allow foul, physical air in your sick room or bed chamber don't allow disease-breeding thoughts, emotions and whinings, to taint the spiritual atmosphere. Brace up. Be a good, spiritual sport. Grit your teeth, shut your lips, hold your hands tight, and fight just plain fight. That's what Jacob did at Bethel, when his thigh was put out of joint. Die if you must, suffer if you have to do so, but be a soldier about it. Keep your face, your fighting face, to the foe. Not your squirming, cowardly back. The Lord loves a brave soldier so do all men. God is our help. He can heal and comfort us, if we greatly work and greatly pray. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in August. Work and Business. Second Week in August. SUMMER HEALTH LESSONS. Third Week in August. PREVENTION OF DISEASE. Note. We especially commend this splendid and succinct lesson by Dr. Charles F. Wilcox to our students everywhere. It is the multum in parvo concerning the subject treated. LESSON I. PREVENTION OF DISEASE. The wonderful disclosures of the microscope have revealed a new world and humanity has reaped a very great and important benefit from it. By magnifying many hundred diameters it was found that countless germs existed in the air and on everything around us. A further study of these germs showed them to be mostly of vegetable origin; also that the great majority of them were not only not harmful, but that they were actually useful in promoting fermentation notably the yeast germ, and the germs that produce the fermentation in milk, wines, beers, etc. It was also found that these germs were living entities and that they reproduced themselves that they could be destroyed by heat, dry or moist, by certain chemicals, such as chloride of lime, iodine, etc., also that sunlight was a great destroyer of germs. It was also found that certain colonies of germs or bacteria were the direct cause of nearly all the diseases that afflict the human body. Louis Pasteur, a noted French chemist, was one of the first GUIDE LESSONS. 413 men to experiment along these lines and he developed the germ theory of fermentation and proved beyond question of doubt that there was no such thing as "spontaneous generation of life," but that all life was due to cellular activity and must be produced by a pre-existing, living cell. His researches along these lines were of immense benefit to the wine and beer industries of France and Germany. It was this discovery that has made possible the canned fruit and vegetable industry that furnishes so much of our winter supply of food. When the silk industry of France was in danger of being entirely destroyed by the worms dying prematurely, he found their death was caused by a germ. He immediately applied himself to find a remedy and was so successful that he not only saved the silk industry to the nation, but gained honor and undying fame. At this early stage of his researches, he expressed himself to the effect that what he had been able to do with the silk worms, he hoped would be possible to do with higher animals, and perhaps even human beings might be benefited by his great discovery. He certainly pointed the way that has led up to the present advanced position of medical science and while there are hundreds of names of eminent men who have done much to bring medicine out of the realm of uncertainty and empiricism to the pinnacle of true science where it sits today, a shining monument should be erected to the names of Harvey, Jenner, Lister, and among the long list of illustrious men that have followed down to the present, none shines brighter than that of Louis Pasteur. The discovery of Edward Jenner that vaccination will certainly prevent that dreadful scourge, small-pox which, up to his day, was the most dreadful disease known to the human race, has made it so mild and so infrequent that it is no longer feared. It is not too much to say that he has been instrumental in saving millions of lives. In the Spanish-American war one-fifth of the soldiers in the national encampment had typhoid fever. During the last four years our soldiers numbering, over twenty thousand, have been patrolling the border in Mexico, and not one case of typhoid fever has been reported in the army. This immunity has been secured by proper and timely vaccination. The mortality of diphtheria has been reduced from 40% to less than 10% since the introduction of antitoxin and thousands of children who have been exposed to diphtheria have been saved from the disease by a timely dose of antitoxin. The economic loss in the United States from tuberculosis alone has been estimated at two hundred million dollars annually. During the last forty years the death rate of tuberculosis has been reduced fifty percent. This great reduction has been brought 414 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. about by better sanitary measures and an earlier recognition of the disease which makes it much more favorable for treatment. What is true of the foregoing is equally true of nearly every contagious disease known. In summer, germs develop more rapidly than in cold weather. This accounts for the increased death rate in children during the summer months. Germs develop rapidly in milk when it is not free from dirt and extraneous material, or when it is not placed in sterile containers and then kept cool. Flies not only carry the typhoid germs, but many other harmful ones, notably the colon bacillus. This germ, when taken into the system, is very injurious and is responsible for many deaths. The water supply, in country districts, should be carefully guarded against contamination. It is said that cleanliness is next to Godliness, but it is quite proper to say that cleanliness is Godliness itself. The Great Creator has placed in the human body elements that tend to protect him against the death-dealing germs, and when the body is clean within and without, and proper regard is had for the general rules of hygiene, and all manner of excesses in diet, exercise and everything that tends to overstrain the body or reduce its vitality is avoided, it is rendered almost immune against disease of every kind, whether contagious, infectious or toxic. QUESTIONS. How were germs discovered? What are germs? Of what use are they? What harm can they do? How do they get into the system? Where are they found? How are they destroyed? What did Louis Pasteur do? What did Edward Jenner do? What would happen if everybody in the world were vaccinated against small-pox and typhoid fever? When two children are exposed to a contagious disease why does one take it and the other not? Why are babies made sick in summer more than in winter? How can you prevent nearly all diseases? GUIDE LESSONS. 415 Fourth Week in August. THE TEETH AND THEIR CARE. LESSON II. The human countenance is much beautified by a set of teeth which are healthy, white, and symmetrical. Good teeth are greatly to be desired. Not only are they an aid to fine looks, but they are of the utmost importance in helping to maintain the general health. Good health depends largely on good digestion. Mastication or grinding of the food is the first process of digestion, and perfect mastication can only be accomplished with the best of teeth. Time was when people actually expected to lose their teeth as the years went by and some aged people became entirely toothless. That condition gave rise to the expression "nut cracker face" when, on account of shrunken gums and sunken lips, the prominent nose and chin would almost meet. The invention of artificial teeth changed that condition entirely. Now, the science of dentistry has advanced so near to perfection that the ordinary mortal may have his natural teeth until he dies of old age. Much of the misery and distress of the teething period are averted by the proper care of the infant, and with the teeth a good beginning is most important. The properly trained child is taught to give careful attention to his teeth at a very early age. Wise parents give their children food containing the elements needed for the building up or the growing a good set of teeth. For the first three years the milk diet should be mostly depended upon, the diet being varied during the third and following years in accordance with knowledge and wisdom. The outer covering of the teeth is called enamel and it is the hardest tissue found in the body. If the enamel could be kept always in perfect condition the teeth would not suffer from disease or decay. It appears that Nature has designed the teeth to last as long as life, because after the teeth are once completely grown, she makes no provision for repairing or restoring the enamel. All the other tissues of the body have formative cells which continually repair waste or promote growth. It is only the teeth, after they are full grown, that are left without these reproductive cells. As soon as the teeth are completely grown these formative cells disappear. Many causes contribute to the cracking or other injury of the enamel, and it is after the enamel is injured that decay sets in, and the services of the dentist are required. Cracking nuts or other hard substances is a frequent and common source of 416 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. danger. The people who sew should cut their threads with scissors or thread-cutters and not use the teeth for that purpose. Drink or food taken into the mouth too hot or too cold works injury to the enamel. Sudden changes of temperature such as following hot food with cold or the reverse is very hard on the teeth. Too much sweets and candy are injurious to the stomach and cause decay of the teeth. Also the teeth should be kept clean and free from any remaining particles of food that might ferment and cause disease or decay germs. Sucking of the thumbs or fingers is a habit that is quite frequent among infants and young children. It is a habit which should be corrected without delay, because if continued it is very apt to cause the mouth to be malformed or the shape and expression spoiled, by uncomely, projecting teeth in adult life. Another dreadful result of this pernicious habit may be adenoids. The services of a good dentist should be regularly employed — and he should investigate the teeth about twice a year every six months. This attention should begin even with the temporary set or "baby set," at the very first sign of decay. A very great mistake is frequently made by neglecting the "six year molars." They are the first permanent teeth to appear and never should be extracted if they can possibly be preserved to the individual by filling or other dental work. Frequently brushing of the teeth with a soft brush, preferably after each meal, up and down, across, inside and outside, and the use of an anti-septic tooth wash are necessary to their proper care and preservation. The Chinese rub the cleansing material over the teeth with the finger. The tooth brush is unsanitary unless frequently sterilized. QUESTIONS. Name two special reasons for giving the best care to the teeth. What was the condition of many of the aged people in days gone by? With personal care and the aid of the dentist what may be the condition now? Is there any way of aiding the growth of good teeth? Tell anything you know on that subject. Tell some facts about the outer covering or enamel of the teeth. Name some of the causes that contribute to the injury of the teeth. Tell what you think about the services of the dentist. What is the personal care that should be given the teeth? GUIDE LESSONS. 417 NOTES TAKEN FROM REMARKS OF DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS AT THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, MAY 8, 1916. Dr. Roberts spoke of disease germs and how readily they are distributed. People should never cough nor sneeze without using a handkerchief to keep the germs from spreading. Mothers who have a cold should tie a handkerchief over the nose and mouth when nursing the babe. It is from the mother's breath more than from the milk that baby catches cold from its mother. Insist upon children breathing with mouth closed, whether awake or asleep. Do not let them use pacifiers nor suck thumb or fingers. LET BABIES SLEEP ALONE. To aid them in cutting teeth let them bite on something hard. Clothing may be protected by bib or towel. To have sterilized rags boil water twenty minutes and wash rags in it. Then bake them in paper for one hour and wrap in sterilized cloth or towel. For ear ache put two or three drops of salt water in ear. Blow in more to get air in the ear. That often cures. For a sprained wrist, soak wrist in cold salt water. Change water frequently. For nose bleed, stand with arms extended and raised high, rest them against the wall and throw the head back. Another way is to press fingers on the arteries in the front upper gums. To prevent fainting, double up the patient like a jack-knife. Might have him pick up something from the floor. Among the supplementary books which can safely be recommended to our sisters who desire to read more and know more concerning their theological lesson work, we would suggest the book by Willard Done entitled, Women of the Bible. While our sisters should not permit themselves to neglect the necessary reading in the Bible in the preparation of their lessons they will still find very much that is good and useful in this excellent book by Brother Done. CHARMS OF SPRINGTIME Duet for 1st and 2nd Treble Evan Stephens. [Musical notation follows] let me live while the flowers are blooming, Making the gardens and meadows so fair, Bathing in dewdrops so bright in the morning, Filling with fragrance the soft summer air. When 'mong the flowers the bee sips the honey, From out their petals so varied in hue, And the sweet humming bird searching the blossom, Brightest among the bright flow'rs he can view. CHARMS OF SPRINGTIME. 419 [Musical notation continues] 2nd Time But when flow'rs are withered and dying, And the But when the flowers are withered and dying The birds with their songs have all flown far away, And the cold blast of the autumn sighing All nature is fading and donning her grey. Gladly with them, then would I rest. 420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. There has come to the editor's table another group of charming poems by Alfred Lambourne. It is a tribute of one poet, Alfred Lambourne, to another poet, William Shakespeare. Every line breathes the reverent affection of a soul who knows how to pay tribute to the high priest at the altar because a living coal from that altar has been laid upon the lips of the kneeling devotee. Alfred Lambourne has cheered many a weary heart, inspired hope in unhappy homes and has cast the beautiful thrall of poesy about the stern realities of early life in these valleys. Now that the steps of his fancy has led him into the paths about Stratford-on-Avon, he has made beauty more beautiful and poetry sweeter for his song. Those who love matchless Shakespeare, and there be many; and those who love gentle Lambourne, and they also are many, will find joy in this new booklet from his pen. The Most Interesting, Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections of the West ARE REACHED VIA Including Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts Pacific Coast Excursions Just What You Daily to November 30th Need! For Descriptive Literature, address D. E. Burley, A good, healthful breakfast food General Passenger Agent, one you do not have to coax the O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah children to eat. "SUN RIPE" Rolled Oats are delicious. They will tempt any appetite. Z. C. M. I. School Shoes For Boys ROLLED OATS — the new cereal food, is made at Ogden, Are made for service Utah, in America's newest and most they will keep the boys' modern cereal food factory under the direction of a milling expert, Mr. F. E. feet warm and dry. Walsh. These oats are the choicest the sun-bathed valley of the "Rockies" can produce. Their natural flavor and purity Z. C. M. I. are protected all the way to your home, in air-tight, dust-proof packages. ALLOVERS You'll like "SUNRIPE" Instant are the ideal Koffe-et. ALL GROCERS. play garment "Contains the Strength of the Hills" for boys and UTAH CEREAL FOOD CO. girls. Cheap, OGDEN, UTAH serviceable. EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Genealogical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Utah's Most Popular Music House English and American SAVE HALF ARCHITECTURE When Buying Your Piano By GEO. M. ALLEN We always have on hand a representative is in Mrs. Horne's Art Book, stock of instruments used as demonstrators, returned from rentals, etc., practically good as new, but DEVOTEES AND THEIR AT ABOUT 1/2 ORIGINAL PRICES SHRINES. Send to this office or Mention this magazine and ask for special list. to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned. THE STATE OF UTAH PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing announces the opening of its thirteenth school year on Monday, September 18, 1916. School term, 8 months. — Course A Entrance fee for the course in Obstetrics, which includes nursing and invalid cooking $50.00. — Course B Entrance fee for course in Nursing, which includes invalid cooking $25.00. — Course C At intervals during the school year, lectures on Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases, Etc., will be given by eminent physicians, surgeons, and specialists. No charge. Course D —A class in Invalid Cooking will be conducted by experts no extra charge for students taking other courses. ; Instructor, DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS. For further information write to General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman, Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE — — Mothers, educate your daughters and sons to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. If the "DAY" has been set Let me sell you the Ring Diamond Rings $20 and up One Quality Only—the Best McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City Do You Believe in Signs? HERE IS A GOOD ONE When You See This Sign You Think of a Trip to Beautiful California and Safety, Service, Scenery, Comfort, Convenience and Courtesy FOR YOU AND THOSE YOU LOVE DON'T YOU? How about that trip this summer We want you to have a good time It will make us better friends Come in and let us help you plan your trip. That is what we are paid for, and we love our work C. L. McFAUL Ticket Office, Second Floor Walker Bank Building SALT LAKE CITY SOUTHERN PACIFIC RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST, 1916. SPECIAL ARTICLES MARY A. F. S. PRATT AND DAUGHTER Mary Ann Stearns Winters. A charmingly quaint picture of ye olden time. PROPER GUIDANCE OF CHILDREN Lucy Wright Snow. BIRTH CONTROL Elder Hyrum M. Smith and Bishop David A. Smith. Pure Sugar Good TWO BOOKS Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead For Children A simplified form, with complete instructions for properly recording this work. Mothers have never doubted the claims of physicians and food experts L. D. S. Family and Individual Record that sugar contains important elements required by babies and growing children. Pure sugar is concentrated nutriment and helps in the building of healthy bodies and strong minds. Arranged specially for recording in a most desirable and concise form, important events in the lives of the members of the church. These books are sold There has been a question, however, with some mothers as to the relative merits of beet and other sugars. This important question has been answered by the world's greatest scientists, who say there is no sugar made superior to refined beet sugar. at $1.25 each Deseret News Book Store 6 MAIN STREET When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction The quality of Utah-Idaho Sugar is always the same. Order this home sugar by name. It is safe, pure and economical. Utah Idaho Sugar The Thomas ABSOLUTELY PURE Studio UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. JOSEPH F. SMITH, President Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. THOS. R. CUTLER, Vice-Pres and Gen'l Mgr. Established 1877 Phone Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY Attention To Subscribers Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 10% discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves. Please Use Our Subscription Blanks The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS. AUGUST, 1916. The Two-Faced Clock Ida Stewart Peay 421 Mary Ann Frost Stearns Pratt 423 Birth-Control 433 Mother Takes Advice Diana Parrish 436 Proper Guidance of Children Lucy Wright Snow 442 The Prince of Ur Homespun 444 Crochet Nut Basket Isabel W. Sears 457 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 460 Current Topics James H. Anderson 463 Editorial: Will Conquering 465 The Toilers. Maud Baggarley 467 Guide Lessons 468 ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY. Patronize those who advertise with us. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City. MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY— 60 East South Temple. OREGON SHORT LINE RAILWAY, Salt Lake City. STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J., Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City. THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City. TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St., Salt Lake City. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City Utah. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. "WOMEN OF THE BIBLE," by Willard Done. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. A Great Lesson "Great Truths are Portions for Children of the Souls of Man" Mothers could do much toward Books are the means of transmitting "Portions of the Souls" starting their children on the road to success if they would teach them lessons of Thrift. of great men gone, to the men now living. Without thrift no man has achieved success; and if it is not cultivated in youth, it will, perhaps, never be cultivated. Deseret Sunday School Union Book Store Open a savings account for each of 44 E. South Temple Salt Lake City your children and teach them to save. We'll help with 4% interest. Ten years of systematic saving will have a wonderful influence on their futures. SALT LAKE'S "The Bank with a Personality" LADY FLORIST Merchant's Bank Mrs. Emma J. Sanders Capital $250,000 278 South Main Street Member of Salt Lake Clearing House Schramm-Johnson No. 5 John Pingree, Pres. O. P. Soule, V. P.; Moroni Heiner, V. P. Radcliffe Q. Cannon, Asst. Cashier. Phone Wasatch 2815 Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City Salt Lake City, Utah Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. RELIEF SOCIETY DEPARTMENT HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH The purpose Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 THE of this UTAH STATE NATIONAL Bank at all times is to render BANK helpful service and S.M.TAYLOR & Co. make the handling SALT LAKE CITY UTAH of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. Undertakers and Embalmers SUCCESSORS TO Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK 53 Years in One Location Your Account is Cordially Invited 251-257 E. First South Street JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Efficient Service, Modern Methods, Complete Equipment THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. III. AUGUST, 1916. No. 8. Mary Ann Frost Stearns Pratt The subject of this sketch was a pioneer woman in the truest and broadest sense of the term. She was born in Bethel, Maine, Jan. 14, 1809. Her parents were Aaron Frost and Susan Gray. She was married to Nathan Stearns in 1831, and after two happy years of married life was left a widow with an infant daughter, Mary Ann, five months old. She says of herself: "I was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ, in the spring of 1835, being converted to the truthfulness of its doctrines by the first sermon I heard, and I said in my heart, if there are only three who hold firm to the faith, I will be one of that number; and through all the persecutions I have had to endure, I have ever felt the same; my heart has never swerved from that resolve." What appealed to her most in the gospel was the principle of redemption for the dead, for she deeply mourned the loss of her young husband, and the thought that she could be united to him for eternity gave her the greatest consolation. She began her pilgrimage when she left her native state, with her little daughter, four years old, to cast her lot with the Saints, having to sacrifice the little dowry left to her daughter by her husband, because the child's guardian refused to let her take it to the "Mormons." She was married to Parley P. Pratt, who was a widower, on May 9, 1837, bearing four children by Brother Pratt, but lost two of them as infants in Nauvoo. She passed, with her husband through the many persecutions and missionary experiences that are recorded in history, going to him with her two children at one time when he was in prison, and sharing his dungeon which she describes as "A damp, dark, filthy place: without ventilation, merely having a small grating on one side." The following lines were written by her husband at this time: 424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. CONSTANT MARY. When death had bereft me of one that was dear, And fortune had left me in sadness and tears, While gloom o'er my cottage in solitude reigned, And deep in my bosom grief's arrow remained. The Lord in much mercy look'd down from above, And gave me sweet Mary, an angel of love Her form was most lovely, her countenance fair, Though marks of deep sorrow still lingering there. O Mary, sweet Mary, still gentle and kind, Thy heart is all goodness and pure is thy mind. How oft in affliction still faithful you've proved, In sorrow and trouble my spirits have soothed. When far from your country and friends I would roam To seek in the wilds of Missouri a home, My kind-hearted Mary, still constant and true, To go with her Parley, bade friends all adieu. Then o'er the rough billows of ocean's strong tide, In storms and commotion she sailed by my side O'er hills and o'er mountains, still onward we rode, And along the broad rivers to seek an abode. At length on the far distant plains of the west We reared our lone cottage, a cottage of rest. And there 'mid the wild flowers that bloomed o'er the plain, Our tender, sweet offspring we strove to maintain. But scarce had kind autumn rewarded our toil, And plenty around us begun for to smile, When torn from her bosom in prison confined, Adieu my fond Mary, I leave you behind. O no, said sweet Mary, I'll quickly repair To the cold, dreary prison and live with you there A dark, lonesome dungeon a palace will prove When blessed with presence of him that I love. Then welcome misfortune, since Heaven has deigned, To send me an Angel so constant and kind; In palace or prison I am happy with thee, And Eden without thee is no Eden to me. MARY ANN FROST STEARNS PRATT. 425 She accompanied her husband on various missions, first to New York and thence to England, where she remained two years. She was with the Saints in their expulsion from Nauvoo and endured all the privations following and finally gathered to Utah, where she arrived in 1852. There she took her full share with the other pioneer women in the primitive work of the new country, spinning, coloring, weaving, gleaning, etc. But her greatest work was ministering to the sick, as for many years there was not a single doctor in the small town of Pleasant Grove where she lived. While she had no special training she never refused to go when called upon, and always prayed to God for help and guidance and would say to her daughter, with whom she lived, when leaving the house on her errand, "Mary, pray for me that all may be well." And these prayers were answered, for out of the many hundreds of births that she attended, no mother was called to leave her family. She was brave and fearless, strong, and self-reliant, resourceful in character, and she devoted her entire life to her religion, her family, and to humanity. She died in Pleasant Grove at the age of 83. She came to Utah with her family of three children and settled among the people of God, and her posterity is now nearing the two hundred mark. The following extract from the history of Parley P. Pratt gives us a charming picture of the conditions, at that time, surrounding himself and wife Mary Ann Stearns Pratt: "During this conference I received a letter from my family in New York, informing me that they were dangerously ill of scarlet fever. I, therefore, by advice of the other members of the quorum, concluded to cross the ocean once more and bring them to England, where I was likely to remain for several years rather in a stationary position as an editor and publisher. I accordingly repaired immediately to Liverpool and embarked for New York. I was thirty-seven days confined on this dreary passage, without any friends or associates who cared for me or the cause of truth. "I then landed in New York, found my wife and children recovered from their sickness, for which I felt truly thankful. They were agreeably surprised at seeing me so soon and so unexpectedly, and so were the Saints in that city and vicinity. After several joyful meetings among them, I went to the State of Maine on a visit with my wife and children to her parents and kindred. They lived in Bethel, Oxford County, about sixty miles from Portland, the seaport where we landed. The day before our arrival, my wife's sister, a Mrs. Bean, prophesied to her husband that Brother Pratt and family would arrive there the next evening, and she actually changed the bedding and prepared the best room for our reception, as if she had received 426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. notice of our coming. At this her husband and friends laughed in derision, 'for,' said they, 'our brother-in-law is in England and his family in New York; how, then, will he be here tonight?' But she still persisted, and made ready the room and all things for our reception, assuring them that I would arrive that night with my family. "Night came, the deep shades of evening gathered around, a dark and gloomy night set in, and still no signs of us. They still laughed her to scorn for her superstition, and she still persisted in her anticipations of our momentary arrival. At length, as they were about to retire to rest, we knocked at the door and were joyfully received it being the first time that any of my wife's kindred there had seen my face. "Mrs. Bean had a dream a few days previous to our arrival, in which she dreamed that I came to her and gave her a key to the Bible. As she related the dream to me, I presented her with my Voice of Warning. It seemed to her and her husband as they read it as if it was indeed a key to the doctrine and prophecies of the Holy Scriptures. They rejoiced with exceeding joy, and promised to be baptized, and to gather to Nauvoo, if God would only open their way to sell their farm. "My father-in-law, Aaron Frost, and household, and all our kindred and many others in that region, received me with joy and hospitality, and I preached several times in their churches. "I finally took leave of them and returned to New York accompanied by my wife's sister, Olive Frost, a young lady of some twenty years of age, who accompanied us to England to help us in the family. "We soon embarked, and after a long and tedious passage, we arrived again in England in October, 1840. My family then consisted of my wife and wife's sister, and my wife's daughter, Mary Ann Stearns, and my sons, Parley and Nathan." AN AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF THE LATE MARY ANN STEARNS WINTERS, DAUGHTER OF MARY ANN STEARNS PRATT. I was born in Bethel, Oxford Co., state of Maine, April 6, 1833. Am the daughter of Nathan Stearns and Mary Ann Frost. My father died August 25, 1833, when I was not quite five months old, so I never knew the looks of a father, or had the tender care of a father's love but all the devotion of my heart that would have extended to both parents was centered in my loving and faithful mother and our lives were so interwoven that one story cannot be told without the other. My father and mother were lovers in the true sense of the meaning, and she often said that she never received a cross word from him, or saw MARY ANN FROST STEARNS PRATT. 427 a cross look on his face when turned to her, but always a smile of love and approbation. And of his health, my grandma said, "He had never missed a meal through sickness from the time he was two years old." But while working in the harvest field, one sultry July day, he was stricken with typhus fever (then prevalent in the community) and after four weeks of bleeding, cupping and blistering, he answered to the call of the reaper. In a few days my mother also became ill with the disease, and two others of the family, and I was taken by a kind neighbor to be weaned. After a few weeks when I was taken to the bedside of my mother, and she was asked if she knew whose baby it was, she shook her head and when asked to look again, she still could not think, but as her eyes wandered down to the little dress she had fashioned in love and anticipation, the truth dawned upon her, and she clasped me to her bosom with tears of motherly love and affection. With the return of memory came the great weight of sorrow that had come to my mother, and she mourned as one not to be comforted, but taking up the burden of life for my sake, she wandered wearily on still clothed in garbs of deep mourning till three years had passed away, when the glorious light of the gospel burst forth to illumine the souls of all who would accept its glad message. In August, 1836, Apostle Brigham Young with five others of his quorum came down through Vermont and New Hampshire, and held conference in my native town, Bethel. They were there more than a week, and the Spirit of the Lord was poured out in great abundance upon the people of that and the adjoining towns who gathered and listened to the glad tidings. Many were baptized at that time, and most of them moved to Kirtland. My mother and grandmother Frost were baptized by Apostle David W. Patten, and after he confirmed my mother he also administered to her, by the laying on of hands, for the palpitation of the heart, and she was immediately healed. She had suffered with it severely for a number of years, but she was never heard to complain of her heart again, though she lived to be nearly eighty-two years old, and passed through many frightening scenes of mobs, Indian scares, and intimidating circumstances. My Grandfather Frost was baptized about a year after by Elder John Pack, and my mother's sister, Olive Grey Frost, was baptized about the same time, by Elder Duncan McArthur. My uncle, Orange Clark Frost, was the first of our family to hear the gospel, and when he came home he said, "Mother, I would carry you twenty miles the darkest night that ever was to hear such a sermon as I have heard tonight." Yet he never joined the Church —his wife and her folks were so much opposed that he did not see fit to incur their displeasure. My grandfather 428 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. and grandmother Stearns, though very good, religious people, never accepted the gospel, but one of their daughters, Mrs. Thankful Bessy, her husband and two children, joined the Church in the early days and remained faithful to the end— the mother and son dying in Manti, and both are lying beneath the shades of the Temple to await the resurrection day. The son, my cousin, Anthony S. Bessy, is living and does much work in the Manti Temple for our kindred dead in my father's line of ancestry. As was usual in those days, the spirit of gathering rested upon the converts, and agreeable to the counsel given, all who could do so, gathered to the body of the Church, then located at Kirtland, Ohio. My mother prepared to take the journey with the little company that was going with the returning elders. These were John Carter and his sister, Eliza, of Newry, Maine; Aphia Woodman and Phebe Carter from Scarboro, Maine and others that I do not call to mind at this time. Eliza Carter became the wife of James C. Snow, and Phebe Carter, (not related to the others), was the wife of Apostle Wilford Woodruff. Aphia Woodman did not live many years, and was not married. After my father's death a guardian was appointed for me, and to take care of the little means that was left for my benefit. He was much opposed to "Mormonism," and would never consent to my being taken with them, but my mother considered she had the first and best right to her own child. Without asking leave she started with me, August 16, 1836, a little ahead of the company, and Father David Sessions took us, the night before the others started, in his carriage to Portland, where we were ready to take the boat for Boston when the others arrived. I well remember that night journey of sixty miles, for I was very tired of the jolting before it was finished. I remember going on the boat, but it was a night boat, and when I awoke in the morning, we were landed at Boston, and there, for the first time we saw the Prophet Joseph Smith who had been preaching in that vicinity. To me he seemed larger and nobler than any other man, and when he was introduced as "the Prophet," his mission seemed as sure to me as that I could see the sun shine in the heavens, or that Abraham was a man of God, as my mother had taught me from the Bible. We stayed in Boston three days, at the home of Aunt Polly Vose, the Saints constantly receiving instructions from the lips of the Prophet. This, of course, I could not understand, but I watched him closely and realized that what he was saying was good and true. A number more joined the company in Boston and they proceeded on their journey, arriving at Kirtland in due season. My mother went to the home of Brother Brigham Young, and we boarded there through the winter. I became acquainted with his little daughters Elizabeth and Vilate, and they were my first friends in the Church, and we always remembered that time in our after lives with pleasure. During the winter the younger children of the family took the measles and my turn came with the others. I was very sick and always remembered my suffering at that time. Drs. Willard and Levi Richards had just arrived from their homes in Massachusetts to investigate the gospel and were stopping at Brother Young's. They were Thompsonian doctors, and Sister Young was a strong convert to that practice so, of course, we were liberally dosed with composition, lobelia, etc. To me the red pepper was something dreadful, and taking the composition through straws did not help the matter much and oh, how I did long for a drink of cold water. But we got well, the dear little twins and all, and I will not condemn the bridge that helped to bring us safely over. About this time the doctors had asked to be baptized. I watched them as they departed, and upon their return, and when Sister Young shook hands with them and greeted them as "Brother Richards," I thought then they were all right, especially as I did not have to take any more of their medicine. Mother with some others went to the baptizing to assist with the singing, and they all returned rejoicing in the New and Everlasting Gospel. I remember the name of one of the hymns that was sung on the occasion, "Now Let us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation." Brother Young had labored so faithfully to explain the gospel to them, and, little as I was, I wondered they didn't believe it sooner. I thought everybody ought to believe the gospel and become Latter-day Saints. It was now drawing near spring. Brother Hyrum Smith's family had moved into their new house, and my mother went there to board for a time. Sister Smith was a kind, motherly woman, gentle and sweet in all her ways. She never tired of doing that which would bring peace and happiness to those around her. As I had neither brother nor sister, I took special delight in playing with a doll —the larger it was, and if it could have some of my clothing on it, the better I was suited. But Brother Smith did not approve of children playing with dolls, and my mother and Sister Smith used all their best arguments to persuade me to give them up. At last I yielded, not very willingly or with a very good grace, I fear, but because I thought I must. I had not been converted to that Puritanical idea — that it was wrong for little girls to play with dolls when they loved them so much, and I have always considered this my first sacrifice. Sister Smith gave me a new dress, if I would not have any more dolls while I was there. This soothed my feelings for the time being, but did not quench my love in the least, for my little dumb companions. I had a somewhat strange dream while we were living there. I would hear a rumbling sound as of chairs moving and people walking overhead, and the ceiling would open and men would come down, sometimes one, sometimes two, and again three and stand and look at me a few seconds and then return again as they came. This was repeated several times, and I thought they were holding a meeting up there but the strange part of it was, they were dressed just as our elders are now when they are prepared for burial. I have never yet found out why this dream came to me, but I must believe it had some purpose, on account of the clothing the people wore. During this time my mother had attended one of the prayer meetings in the temple and received her patriarchal blessing, and also I had received my childhood blessing into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Great promises were extended to mother in her blessing, and particular mention of me was made in it also. As the spring days passed on, my mother went to live in a part of the house previously occupied by Brother Hyrum Smith's family just across the street and a little north of their new home. And there she began housekeeping, and during the time we remained there many things transpired that fastened themselves indelibly in my memory. I was very lonesome. Though my mother did everything she could to amuse and entertain me, still there was a loneliness not to be overcome in that way. She taught me my a, b, c's by cutting out letters and pasting them around the fireplace k was the hardest I was used to keys, and if that letter had been key I should have known it at once. Then the terrible crickets — they sang so loudly, and seemed to be singing right at me. I couldn't understand what they said and imagined all sorts of terrible things. They looked harmless enough, and mother said they wouldn't hurt anyone, but what did they sing so loud for? No "cricket on the hearth" for me, if you please. I had learned to knit and had a pair of stockings nearly done and mother wanted me to finish them by my fourth birthday. I knit very tight and mother had to knit around every other time to loosen up the stitches, but I had them done in time, and was very glad for a number of reasons it is quite a task for a little active girl to sit down and knit very long at a time, and it was a great relief to have the job off my hands, as well as a pleasure to see what I had done. In those early days snuff-taking was quite fashionable. My father had given mother a very pretty snuff box, and though she had not practiced using snuff herself, she had the box filled and a nice vanilla bean in it to scent the snuff, and when old ladies came to see her would pass it round to them. It was also customary, for people in trouble to smoke or take snuff to soothe their feelings and pass away the time (poor souls), and this course was urged upon mother. Smoking she could not think of, as it seemed too troublesome a habit, but she had become quite used to taking snuff before she heard the gospel sound. But now, after hearing "The Word of Wisdom" taught she must not partake of the forbidden snuff any longer. And in her patriarchal blessing, too, "Word of Wisdom" was spelled with large letters, so now the sacrifice must surely begin. It was her habit, immediately after eating, to take a good pinch of snuff, but now instead, she placed the snuff box on the chimney-piece over the letters and above the crickets and took the Book of Mormon and sat down to read till all desire for the snuff had passed and thus she gained the victory, with the temptation in plain sight. And oh how thankful she was in after years for the knowledge of the evil, and for strength to overcome it. And now another trial and sacrifice awaited us both. My own father had been a lieutenant in the State militia and had a nice uniform suit of blue broadcloth with bright buttons these mother had kept and treasured and brought with her from our home in the East, and with tears of loving memory used often to show them to me and tell me about him, and at those times I could better realize that I truly had a father, and it almost seemed that he was with us in person for the time being. But there was a brother W. that had been called on a mission, and he was destitute of suitable clothing for the journey and could not go until he had a better supply, and a friend that knew about the suit hinted to mother that it would "just about" fit brother W. and would be very acceptable at that time. At first mother could not entertain the idea for a moment, but upon further reflection her conscience would not allow her to hold back a treasure that the gospel called for and was not the occasion worthy the suit? Accordingly, mother removed the bright buttons and replaced them with citizen buttons, and with many tears we looked upon that suit for the last time, mother telling me always to remember it as being worn by my dear father and our sacrifice was made willingly though sorrowfully, and I think I will never just know what it cost my dear mother. During this time we were constant attendants at meetings in the temple, and I can especially remember the fast-meetings, and can recall at this day the great power and good spirit that were experienced on those occasions and it was generally known that Father Joseph Smith, the Patriarch, would not break his fast and partake of food till the sun went down, and I thought he was the most wonderful person to willingly go without food for that length of time, and that he must surely be like Abraham, the faithful, that mother had told me so often about. And after the close of one of the meetings, mother took me to the stand and showed me the place on the pulpit where the Savior had stood when He appeared to the Prophet, and where afterwards Moses and Elias came and delivered the keys for the gathering of the Saints (Israel), and the redemption of the dead. One day mother took me to see the Egyptian mummies that were in the upper corridor of the temple. I was very pleased to go, for there was much talk about them, and I thought it would be so nice to go and see them, but when I saw them they frightened me very much they had such an unearthly look to me. They were dark in color, and hard as metal, and the cloth they were wrapped in was petrified like the bodies. Brother Joseph explained much about them that I could not understand, and said they were thousands of years old. I remember of partaking of the Sacrament of bread and wine, in the Kirtland Temple, and when I would have liked more of the wine, mother explained to me that it was in memory of the blood of our Savior when He was upon the cross. After that I was always satisfied to partake of the proper quantity and with reverence in my heart also. My mother had belonged to a choir in her Eastern home, but she could not join it now on account of care of her little girl, but there was much congregational singing, and I learned many of the Latter-day Saints hymns at that time "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning," "Now Let us Rejoice," "Glorious Things of Thee are Spoken," and "Redeemer of Israel," "There's a Feast of Fat Things for the Righteous Preparing," were all as familiar to me as my daily breath, it seemed, and I learned them by heart, and I do not need a book when they are singing them now, though I cannot join, but I sing in my heart, nevertheless, in the singing. (to be continued) "Marriage hath been established as the union of the spiritual, as well as, the physical being. "The sign of a true marriage is increase, not only of the race, but also the attributes of the soul. "It is an eternal marriage, valid throughout all the eternal world." (From the writings of the Persian exile and preacher who adopted the name of Baha Allah, meaning Glory to God. Form 1916.) Birth Control. Perhaps no better evidence of the value and importance of the articles given last month and this month on Birth Control, from the inspired pens of our Church Authorities, can be adduced than the animated and sometimes heated discussions which this subject has already aroused in this Society. It may be to the point to relate a story told at the home of the Editor by the famous lecturer and publicist, Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman. The lady described a serious experiment made by a young married couple who were enthusiastic eugenists, and who were ideal in lives and characters. They decided that from the very hour of conception, nay the preparatory hours before that momentous event, every possible care should be taken to insure a perfect human baby. Proper diet, full exercise, fresh air, beautiful scenes, happy thoughts and associations, pure emotions — these and these only were to surround the prospective mother. Nothing was allowed to ruffle her spirit or to depress her nerves. She and her young husband put into active service every known law physical, moral and mental to assist them in their glorious anticipated achievement. The medical world of Chicago was agog with expectation. At last the babe was born, and lived two days. The doctors at once performed an autopsy and found not one single thing right in the little body and not one organ had functioned normally. Every organ was abnormal. The lesson was obvious but was not made public. PRESIDENT HYRUM M. SMITH. In reply to your request that I "express my views" upon the subject of your letter of April 17, I submit the following statement My observations and reading confirms my belief that the question is not a new one. The "doctrine" of birth control or race suicide has been taught and practiced for generations, and is as firmly fixed in the minds of so-called "Christian" peoples as the many other immoral institutions, e. g., divorce, inebriety, suicide, etc. For years the birth-rate in France has been smaller than the death-rate, while in other Christian countries, including our own New England, the death-rate comes dangerously near offsetting the birth-rate. And the peril is no doubt increasing through the work of the promoting agencies you refer to. If, as you intimate, the influence of these agencies is operating among our people, and there is a calculated tendency on the part of the least proportion of the young married members of the Church to follow the lead of the world in such wicked ways and if older parents are teaching and encouraging their married children to neglect the primary and ultimate purpose of marriage by resorting to criminal practices in order to prevent birth altogether or limit the number of children born, then the Church is facing a real danger which must arouse the profoundest apprehension, and all her power should be brought to bear in an effort to overcome and counteract such tendency. As one of the watchmen on the towers of Zion, I raise my voice in warning to both old and young against every such teaching or practice. "Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees," and of the things, "after which the Gentiles seek." These are the evil tendencies and practices of the world, which, for many years, have caused the most serious concern among the wisest and most far-seeing men of Christian lands, making them fear for the very existence of the race. The Psalmist declared that, "Lo, children are an heritage of the Lord: Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them," and conversely, cursed and miserable is the man that, as the result of his own design, hath his quiver empty. He must some day awaken to a bright realization that of that which is the most precious possession of either earth or heaven he is destitute and forever powerless to obtain, and that where they are who have inherited Eternal Lives, he cannot come, worlds without end. The people or nation that follows the false teachers be they editors of papers, authors of books, magazine writers, "Eugenists," or what not, of either sex, who advocate, with or without law, the prevention or limitation of the birth of children, will enter upon the sure road to ruin and extinction and will deserve their disgraceful end. And to the passing of laws upon the question the first to be enacted should be one making the advocacy of birth prevention and restriction a crime, with a severe penalty for the advocate. Then pass other laws aiming to raise the environment and standard of all homes, community and industrial life, to the highest possible plane wherein all children might receive every advantage for the fullest development of body, mind and spirit, and let the number born be controlled only by the laws of nature, which were established by the Divine Creator for the purpose that man should multiply in the earth and the earth be replenished. BISHOP DAVID A. SMITH. It is with pleasure that I attempt to comply with your request for an expression as to my attitude towards the feeling that is apparently growing that it is a mistake to have large families. BIRTH CONTROL. 435 In considering this subject it seems to me that it will be necessary to look at it from two angles. First, from the point of view of the man and woman who are selfish and narrow-minded, and who only care for the gratifying of their own selfish purposes and who do not know or hope for a future existence or happiness. If this is the class that is called the rich and cultured, I would say that those advocating birth control are perhaps nearer right, for the sooner this class can be stamped out, the sooner will the purpose of the Lord be brought about. Considering the subject from the point of view of those who believe in God and in a future existence, those who are living not to carry out their own human, selfish desires, but are trying to serve their Creator and obey His laws, surely it can not be looked upon in the same light. For as the first grow more selfish and more covetous, which often causes the severing of the marriage bond or the entering into it for the mere sake of form, the latter class become more self-sacrificing, their hearts become more tender, and they possess a greater love and sympathy for the children of God. Their lives are not void with emptiness for they are living for others. Their lives are filled with joy and happiness, for they know that they are trying to fulfill the purpose of their creation. Their sorrows are not the sorrows filled with bitterness, but sorrows which tend to mellow them in the eyes of God. A number of years ago it was my privilege to be acquainted with two young men who were employed at the same place and who were married on the same day. The next day as they returned to work they received the congratulations of their associates and one expressed the hope that "their troubles would all be little ones." One young man thanked him the other said, "Not for me. We have agreed that no little ones will come to our home, until we have had some enjoyment out of life and have laid up something for the future." A number of years later, I met these young men. The greeting was, "How are you getting along, and how many babies have you?" One raised his head with a feeling of pride as he answered, "Six;" while the other, with tears in his eyes, said he would give all of his worldly possessions if his home could be blessed with babies. He said, "I am afraid we have gone too far, and can now look for nothing but doctors' bills." I bear testimony of God's mercy to me. I was married in my youth and started with nothing but enough furniture to comfortably fill two little rooms which were rented, and with an income of $30 a month. I may belong to the poor and ignorant class, but I am grateful to Him to whom we must all look for final judgment, for His mercies, for my father, his family, and for the wife and nine children the Lord has given me. Mother Takes Advice. By Diana Parrish. Isobel had been married two years before she dared broach the subject to her mother. She did it then only because she happened in on her one particularly trying morning. Mrs. Hartley was washing dishes in the hot kitchen. On the table stood stacks of unwashed dessert plates, sherbet glasses, and two big heaps of silverware. Two pairs of brass candelabra drooped down their shoulders waiting to be rid of the burnt-out candles and the long beards of wax which clung to the brass like the ghosts of the evening past. From her own experience, Isobel knew what it all meant. The girls had entertained the night before. In the center of the kitchen stood the ironing board with the electric iron still attached. Mignon had been obliged to iron a blouse before rushing madly away to the office. On the marble-topped work table stuck the remnants of a batch of walnut caramels. The sticky spatula lay just where Viola had tossed it when she finished cutting the caramels and packing them into a box for the girls at school. Isobel knew Viola and her caramels. Indeed she felt a twinge of remorse when she remembered that she had taught her younger sister the caramel trick. Against the wall leaned two cases of peaches to be bottled. A huge basket of tomatoes cried out for attention. When Isobel, through the dining room door, caught sight of Beatrice, rosy-cheeked and dreamy, surreptitiously turning the pages of a book as she dawdled about with a duster in hand, she could hold her tongue no longer. "Mother," she began, "don't you think you should have some help with this housework?" Mrs. Hartley surveyed Isobel brightly, noting how well she looked in her smart little morning frock. She smiled and trilled to Isobel's dainty white-clothed baby before she answered. "Oh, we get on very well, Isobel. I enjoy the housework." "But mother, don't you see? Fancy you doing this sort of drudgery! Dishes that those girls have used for company! You never have any time to yourself. You never have any fun. You just make a slave of yourself to your family. It's not right." Mrs. Hartley wiped the perspiration from her face and stared at her daughter in astonishment. It had not been so very long since Isobel herself had been one of the offending "girls." Remembrances of even more recent times turned the corner of mother's mouth in an odd little smile. MOTHER TAKES ADVICE. 437 "Why, my dear, I'm quite all right. I don't mind in the least." "That's just the point. You don't mind, but you should! Your family is grown up and you should be looking out for yourself. You should have done so long ago. You'll become old-fashioned and behind the times. And a woman your age is apt to lose her looks." This last bold thrust burst from Isobel's lips unconsciously. It had been uppermost in her mind for a long time, but she had not meant to speak so abruptly. Mother jerked her hands out of the dish water as if she had been slapped in the face. She glanced instinctively from Isobel's trim figure to her own fat, matronly shape from her daughter's tiny shoes to her heavy ones shielding swollen feet. "Isobel!" she cried, and without another word left the room. Tears started in Isobel's eyes. Now she had done it! Done it very clumsily, too. She was sorry she had hurt her mother's feelings and yet — she could not help but compare her own housekeeping with her mother's burdensome work. For example, how different that very morning had been. Isobel, in her own home, arrayed in a dainty muslin breakfast slip sat facing beaming Tom over a tasty breakfast. Red-tinted peaches piled in a bowl of fascinating design stood at Tom's elbow. Tom was expert in peeling peaches and always insisted on peeling Isobel's for her. After the peaches, Isobel whisked into the kitchen for the cereal which had been cooked in the double boiler while she dressed. Delicately-cooked with thick cream. Delicious! The final course consisted of poached eggs and toast. Isobel poached the eggs at the table in the electric chafing-dish while Tom made the toast with the electric toaster. No chef in the land could make a breakfast better than that, and yet there was practically no labor attached to it. An hour later Tom had departed for his office, the dishes were washed and the kitchen straightened. Isobel put the rest of the house in order while she waited for the baby to awake. But her poor mother. Breakfast to make for five. Breakfast dishes, dishes from the late supper of the night before, a large house to attend to, fruit to preserve and no one to help but a girl of the romantic day-dreaming age. It was shameful the way mother let her dream, too! Mother must be rescued from slavery. Being the first married daughter of a family of seven children, Isobel felt that she was the only one to rescue her. She knew she must do it without the help of her married brothers. Bob, Parker and Tim had been married a long time, and they had never done anything to change their mother's condition. Isobel felt the tears coming faster and faster, so she hurried back to her little home down the road. 438 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Two days later Isobel called up her mother's house on the telephone. Beatrice answered. "Is that you Bea?" "Yes." "Oh, Bea, how is mother?" "All right." "That's good, I have been worrying about her. I say, Bea, I wonder if you will do a favor this afternoon?" "I'll be pleased to, if I can." "Will you tend my baby for me while I go to Clara Hilgraves' party? My little nurse girl promised a week ago to come as usual but this morning she telephoned to say she was sick. I've tried everywhere to get someone, but it's too late on such short notice. I wouldn't bother you, but it's a very beautiful affair and I hate to miss it." "Oh, I'm sorry, dear, but I won't be able to. Listen, Isobel," Bea whispered, "when I said mother was all right, I meant that she was about the same, but something has come over her about making us work. I have to prepare dinner tonight, and I have a dentist appointment that will keep me rushing." Isobel hesitated. Presently she said, "Call mother to the 'phone, will you please?" It was not long before mother answered. "Yes, dear." "Oh, mother, how are you?" "I'm very well, dear." Isobel hesitated again. Finally she stammered. "Mother, I don't like to trouble you, but I wonder if you could take care of Tommie for me this afternoon?" A long pause. Mother was considering her recent decision that she would change her habit —the decision which came from the realization of the fact that she had allowed her children to usurp her rights that she had made them foolishly dependent upon her. "I'm so sorry, my dear," came at last in an even voice, "but I'm going shopping and won't be able to oblige you." "There's nothing wrong, is there, mother? Nothing from what I said the other morning?" gasped Isobel. "Nothing, my dear, nothing," mother hastened to reply. "I'm so glad, I was afraid — well, goodbye, mother," faltered Isobel. "Goodbye, dear." Isobel hung up the receiver wondering what in the world could make her mother put shopping before caring for her little grandson. Mother hung up the receiver, grimly determined to stick to her new resolve, no matter what the cost. MOTHER TAKES ADVICE. 439 During the weeks that followed Mrs. Hartley was tried to the utmost. The remarks of Isobel had made her most unhappy. She was offended with her daughter's presumption in daring to suggest such a thing to her mother. Her pride was wounded at the thought that her methods were not perfect in the sight of her child. She realized, however, that there was truth in Isobel's criticism. She had sacrificed herself to her family, to their detriment and her own. It was here that mother's fighting blood rose magnificently. Having made up her mind that she should change her ways, instead of grieving, she threw herself valiantly upon the task. With the courage which had enabled her to become the mother of seven children she attacked the problem. With the valorous endurance which had brought seven little babes to the estate of manhood and womanhood she undertook the struggle which revolutionary Isobel advised. The refusal to tend Isobel's baby was, so to speak, the first gun fired. After that the shots came thick and fast. Mother went shopping and brought home nothing for anyone but herself. Mother arranged for each daughter at home to attend to a certain portion of the housework. Mother took care of her own room, but spent most of her time in her own interests. "In her selfish interests," commented the astonished daughters. On the third morning after this new arrangement of affairs, mother remained in bed until eleven. It was the first time the family remembered such an occurrence. It was the first time in thirty-five years that mother had not been the first one in the house astir. Beatrice, in alarm, peeped into her room, to find her sleeping peacefully. Mother spent hours on the veranda engrossed with delicate embroidery and filmy laces. She fashioned blouses and lingerie with the exquisite skill for which she had been famous as a girl. And they were all for mother! No extra silk blouse for Viola, "just for a change, my dear." No new embroidered collar and cuffs for Beatrice. No more monogrammed slips for Mignon. These days the girls even mended their own torn laces, darned their own hose, and sewed on their own buttons. Mother got out her guitar and after stealthy practices behind locked doors, took to playing "Annie Laurie" and "Ben Bolt" to father, happily ensconced in his great arm chair and house slippers on the vine-covered balcony. Mother devoting her entire time to herself was enough cause for silent wonder among the family. Mother in a soft crepe gown of father's favorite shade of rose, playing and humming sentimental airs, was cause for whispered alarm and suggestions that someone had better see the doctor. It was Isobel who suggested to the family that they make a special celebration for their parents' wedding anniversary in September. Isobel, perplexed and worried, wished to make amends 440 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. for her rudeness to her mother, to clear away the slight estrangement which seemed to have come between them. Although the gathering was to be a surprise, Isobel took it upon herself to drop her mother several very definite hints that something was afoot for the wedding day. Surprises are all very well, in their way, but Isobel thought it might work better if her mother knew about it beforehand. The family threw themselves into the preparations gallantly. Fanny, Bob's wife, made a gorgeous wedding cake, all frosted over with the hard, indigestible frosting that is guaranteed to preserve the cake fifty years. Geraldine, the second sister-in-law, fried the chicken. The affair was to be one of father's favorite chicken suppers. Margie, the other sister-in-law, prepared a clever little toast for the occasion. She was to sit near the head of the table and sort of start things off. At eight o'clock on the eventful day, the whole family assembled. Bob, stout and jocular, as became the eldest member, tiptoed through the kitchen door with Bob, Jr., and Fanny trailing breathlessly after him. Parker, followed by Geraldine and wide-eyed Nancy seeing her first party, crept in, holding his wriggling, squirming, year-old son tightly in his arms, one hand raised in readiness to cover his offspring's mouth in case of untimely, lusty howls. Margie and Tim and their two sons tried to squeeze through the door together in their haste to get in without giving away the surprise. Tim, of course, was immediately possessed of an insane desire to sneeze, and even after Margie pressed her finger hard on his upper lip as a preventive, gave vent to a ludicrously muffled "Kerchew!" "There! aren't they perfectly dear?" whispered Isobel. She spread on the sideboard the silver salad forks and round-bowled soup spoons which the children had decided to add as a present to their parents' silver service. "Lovely," came in a subdued chorus. "Leave them spread out," suggested Viola, as she brought in the salad. "I suppose we may as well bring things in — they'll be here any minute now." "Yes, I arranged with Mrs. Dennison to have an evening engagement so that mother and father would have to leave right after dinner. They ought to be here by eight-thirty." Isobel gave a satisfied pat to the silver. So the family settled down in the parlor to wait. The grandchildren took turns acting as lookouts at the front door. At nine o'clock there were no grandparents in sight, and the little lookouts, losing interest, began to return via the dining room route, concealing olives in suddenly swollen cheeks and munching and hastily swallowing salted almonds. Ten o'clock dragged round and no father and mother. The MOTHER TAKES ADVICE. 441 valiant lookouts, satisfied with their gleanings of olives, nuts and cake, one by one curled themselves up in the big chairs and went to sleep. Bob and Parker holding sleeping infants, exchanged anxious glances. Viola stifled a yawn and Mignon, from the piano bench, gave a violent nod which woke her up. "I can stand this no longer," burst out Isobel. "Something has gone wrong, an accident, perhaps, and father and mother may be hurt —" "Nonsense, Isobel," put in Tim. "Don't alarm yourself." "Well, I'm sure something has happened, otherwise they would have telephoned. I'm going out to look for them." She hurried from the house and through the garden. They all trooped after her. "Listen!" she said in a hushed voice at the gate. "Horses! and it sounds like the rubber wheels of the ambulance!" As they went through the gate, a smartly built phaeton drawn by a pair of horses turned into the moonlit avenue. "Mother and father!" gasped Isobel. "And she didn't come to her wedding party even when she knew about it — that's taking my advice with a vengeance!" The others stared. The horses, unheeded by father, guided themselves, as all well-trained livery-stable horses that are hired to lovers do. Under the leafy trees that arched across the avenue and dappled it with shadow, father and mother drove, unconscious of their gazing children. And silhouetted against the gleaming harvest moon, they saw father's arm steal round mother's waist and mother's head droop down on father's shoulder. EMMA LUCY GATES' WEDDING CAKE. (Made by her Mother and iced by herself.) 6 well beaten eggs, 1 lb. of stoned raisins, 1 lb. of cleaned currants 1 lb. of chopped walnuts, 1/4 lb. of butter, 1/2 lb. of sugar, creamed with butter, 1 lb. of flour, with 1 teaspoon of yeast powder mix flour with the fruit. Inside of one baker's loaf of bread, crumbed, 1 cup of rich, sweet milk, 1 teaspoon each of lemon, vanilla, cinnamon and nutmeg, 2 tablespoons ground chocolate, 2 tablespoons preserved plums or peaches. Mix batter, add bread crumbs and nuts, lastly the floured fruit. Bake all night in fireless cooker. Proper Guidance of Children. By Lucy Wright Snow. AUTHORITY. When Jesus said, "My gospel is not mine but His that sent me," He showed us how profoundly He respected the authority of His Father. In this example of our own dear Savior we find one of the first essentials of proper guidance of children. When a child has come to feel the authority of his parents, yet still maintaining his freedom to think and act for himself, the problem of his proper guidance is near a solution. In order that this authority may be a proper authority, it is necessary that a perfect harmony of purpose exist between the parents of a family. How best this unity may be obtained is truly the problem of the parents. They should together study their ideals, and together watch them mature and crystallize, always keeping in mind the old adage, "United we stand divided; we fall." When parents are united in purpose, it becomes an easy matter to train and develop children in the home as a unit, which unit produces in turn, love and loyalty, and may be a power for good throughout all time. Each child should understand that he is responsible for his part in making the home happy, and a child very soon learns to accept this responsibility as one of the real pleasures of his little life. "Man is that he might have joy" applies from the cradle to the grave, and a child, properly anticipated, directed and employed, will get as much satisfaction and joy out of his little tasks and responsibilities as adults derive from theirs. When we learn the importance of respecting authority, we should next come to realize the necessity of CONFORMITY TO LAW. In early life a child obeys mother because he must obey he is incapable of reasoning, and the mother must use her reasoning power for him. Psychologists tell us that a child mind begins to philosophize or develop reasoning power at about the age of four years and, since a child's philosophy is his religion, here we find psychological reasons for our law of baptism at eight years. As he reaches about the age of eight he should begin to know that he must do right, not because he will please mother, PROPER GUIDANCE OF CHILDREN. 443 but because it is essential for him to obey the law of right. Law is inevitable, and must be obeyed, or the consequences suffered. Children should be taught early in life to do little tasks that are unpleasant. All our heroes became great through doing things that they didn't want to do. Why should a child be allowed to think that he may leave the unpleasant tasks for someone else to do? Let him get the habit of giving to his parents, and sensing the duty of doing for them it will bring him happiness as it brings us happiness to do the work of our heavenly Father. Teach a child to bear disappointment and suffering. This is the valuable lesson of self control. Many mothers conceal coming events from their children because the things may, after all, not happen, in which case "the disappointment would be so hard to bear." "Of course, if disappointment is thus treated as an experience to be avoided in every possible way, then disappointment will become an unbearable pain. But life is a series of disappointments as it is a series of fulfilments and surprises, and children should learn to meet disappointments as one of the interesting problems of life. They should grow accustomed to turn defeat into victory, by filling every disheartening gap with something which could not otherwise have been had." As for the ills of life, they are the result of broken laws. When our first parents ate the fruit of this earth, they became mortal, and thereby subject to the ills and weaknesses of the flesh why not make the most of a condition, and not scatter the poison of our complaint to those around us? Better to learn in infancy to bear trials with the strength and fortitude that God will give to the earnest solicitor, and in so doing our minds will remain clearer and more receptive in gaining knowledge and we are told that we are saved no faster than we gain knowledge. Now it is for us mothers to remember that the human mind is most active in absorbing its food in infancy and early childhood, and realize the importance of a healthy mental and spiritual environment for the child. Books to read on the subject: Scripture, "Gentle Measures in the Management and Training of the Young," by Jacob Abbot "Childhood," by Mrs. Birney "Fundamentals of Child Study," by Kirkpatrick. The Prince of Ur By Homespun. The appointed hour of the sacrifice drew near. The sun had sunk to rest on the low horizon of the western Mesopotamian plains. The great heights of the Ziggarut were illumined by the last rays of the setting majesty whose worship was the central feature of lower Babylonia but the moon-god was the chief deity of Ur. The floods of the departing, sparkling light rippled along the rising terraces of the temple, enveloping all in its golden glory like the material envelope of the empire's mysterious soul. The black, lower terrace of the temple was the more somber for the gleam of the red and yellow, the pale pink and the lustrous blue of the upper terraces which but accentuated the shimmering bloom of the golden shrine while it lighted the silvered sheen of the last of the seven colossal terraces on which sat the golden shrine with its mystic altar without, and its mysterious altar within. A tremendous clamor of human voices mingled with the clash of musical instruments drums and tambourines, the loud and swelling trumpet, with horns, softened by the sweeter lure of fluted strings on lyres, guitars, zithers, pipes and cymbals, rising from the bosom of the city, as well as from the choristers of the Ziggarut which gave the signal for the evening's procession and ceremonies. All who were to take part in the procession hastened to array themselves and to be ranged along the approach to the Ziggarut where Nimrod was to emerge on his way to the inner sanctuary of the temple. Under the main portico of the walls, stood a magnificent palanquin, or chair of state, upon supports of ivory, carved with symbolic characters. This car contained a throne of gold, the base of which represented in gilded relief the fish-god Onnanes, the emblem for united courage and wisdom. On this throne, at its different corners, were the colored statues of Libnah, Korash, Elkanah and Merodach. On the top of the carved back rested a statuette of Ishtar, the goddess of the Assyrians, with her hands outstretched to protect her vassal and lord. Nimrod, his forehead crowned with a massive weight of gold and jewels, under which was his linen bonnet, came out of the lower sanctuary wearing his priestly linen robe under his richly fringed outer garments, and seated himself in this throne chair, or royal shrine, while twelve high priests of the first rank in Ur and its surrounding tributary cities, uplifted him on their shoulders. Mardan stood at the head of the litter, his gleaming crown and his priestly miter betraying the complete and public apostasy THE PRINCE OF UR. 445 which had this day separated him forever from the Petesi's household and his former religion. His crown was a jewelled snake, its gleaming scales and its red-blood eyes of ruby from the isles of Indus reared itself above his curled and perfumed locks in the light of the thousand torches with sinister effect. Other great personages crowded around for the honor of touching the royal throne, some seizing the alabaster steps and others the supports, and all moved off together, preceded by an immense crowd to the temple of Ishtar or the Moon goddess of Ur. Instantly a blare of vocal and instrumental music smote the night-silence, in which the rudimentary flutes and trumpets, the drums and brasses, gave forth thrilling sounds from weedy pipes or sounding brass. The members of the king's court, the Rabmags, the priests, the officers and their functionaries of his great establishment followed immediately after their master. The royal palanquin was surrounded as well by fan bearers, by the children of the sacerdotal caste carrying the scepter, the arms and the other insignia of the monarch before whom the first princess of the land and the son of the high priest of Ur burned incense continually. The newly created goddess of Ishtar the royal spouse selected by Nimrod, followed after the haughty and vain apostate daughter of the house of Terah — Iscah was robed in like fashion as her royal master yet her own rich robes were made of almost transparent tissues, the weaving of which the Indus alone possessed the secret; and like him she displayed many jewelled ornaments on her neck, her arms and her ankles her wealth of black, yet lusterless tresses clung about her, veiling the fabulous pearls and corals of the Erythrean seas and the emeralds of Troglodytes she followed her lord in an elegant palanquin, the elastic hammock of which, constructed of fine flax and gold, seemed suspended from stalks of rose-colored and violet flowers. Above her crowned head was a broad canopy woven with the rainbow-hued spoils of the most brilliant birds of the tropics, which threw out coruscating, ever-changing tints and shades. Behind this queenly cortege came in two parallel lines, the various petesi and officials of visiting cities and tribes. The lesser dignitaries of the court and priesthood followed after. Detachments of soldiers, regularly drawn up in line by platoons under their respective officers and standards, terminated the procession which even the long and beautiful tiled walks of the inner courts of the Ziggarut could not contain. As the procession reached the lower steps of the temple proper, the seven terraces of the Ziggarut resounded with solemn and mysterious religious music and incantations, the military music ceased and the royal pageant halted, and all waited till Nimrod had seated himself upon his throne, which was on the lower terrace. 446 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The brazen gates, opening upon the Ziggarut proper, and guarded by the huge winged lions of the Assyrian royalty, gave open passage to a long procession of priestly choirs advancing with sacred hymnals to greet their god-king. These were the local ecclesiastics of the great city of Ur. They brought many visiting members of their cult in their ranks, and each gave forth his own benediction of his local gods upon the great god Merodach-Nimrod. Many of these visiting priests had brought with them their gods, mysteriously covered or enshrined in arks, which they carried on their shoulders, dividing themselves into groups of twelve, twenty-four or seventy priests, according to the dignity and importance of the god which they carried. The thick tissues of silver and gold effectually hid their idols from the curious or profane gaze of the onlooker. These gods were the rude symbols which an apostate priesthood after the order of Cush had engrafted upon the pure tradition bequeathed to them by their great forefather Noah. As each Rabmag and each petesi halted before the royal throne, the priest in charge led the hymnal of praise to Nimrod, attributing to him the different virtues which their local god was made to symbolize. One praised his justice, another his magnanimity, others his hatred of falsehood, and his love of good. These sang laudations for his wisdom and his prudence, and those his strength and courage in overcoming his enemies. Descending from his royal dais, Nimrod proceeded on foot up the long and elevated platform which led to the foot of the stairs leading up to the second terrace of the Ziggarut. Up and up the procession mounted, the choirs and bands mingling their strains in rising harmonies, which pealed forth on the night silence with weird and thrilling effect. Thousands of glowing oil lamps on all the terraces were ablaze with artificial illumination. Up and up climbed the royal procession, and finally, the king had reached the upper shrine, where his own distorted and symbolic image stood in the Holy of Holies. In front of the great golden-domed shrine stood a golden table with the shew-bread upon it. Below was a parakku or mercy-seat of gold and filigree workmanship. In front of the shrine was an altar of gold, and another altar stood in the outer court. Here also was the great basin or font of bronze, for purifying and baptismal purposes. This was called "The Deep," and it stood on twelve oxen also made of bronze. To the left was the sacrificial altar, made in the shape of an iron bedstead copied from the Egyptian deities for the offering of human sacrifice. This altar was to be consecrated this night just as the moon-goddess Ishtar showed her effulgent face above the eastern horizon. On the arrival of the king at the upper shrine, the high priest THE PRINCE OF UR. 447 officiating, caused the pontiffs under him to intone the chant consecrated to the divine moonlight about to reveal itself to mortals on this auspicious night. Standing erect at the altar, he received the king, who, ascending to a place beside him, aided him in preparing the ropes to fasten the sacrificial victim later upon the altar. Nimrod himself poured out upon the altar the libations of wine and oil, and burned the prescribed incense amid a shower of flowers, and then prostrated his huge bulk, along the richly tiled floor in front of the golden altar, whereon was now burning the royal incense. He pronounced these words "I come to my father the Nameless One, at the end of the procession of gods, which he forever admits to his presence." During this ceremony, the priests and their arks and idols were wheeling solemnly around the outer courts of the shrine, and they finally entered and mingled their homage with the kingly votary who had laid his all on the altar, becoming by that act, the very god of heaven himself. As each passed the now seated form of their great god-king, Nimrod, they expressed wishes for the welfare of the King of Earth. The weird and blood-curdling litany which followed in a tongue strange to Iscah's ears, chilled her to the marrow. She had seen the beauty and the majesty and the brute-force of Nimrod. She was soon to behold the inferno which was to follow on the heels of this seemingly innocent and religious tribute and service. Each petesi and priest as he bowed before the golden altar whereon sat Nimrod himself, said "I come to render homage to the sovereign of the gods, Nimrod-Merodach, the governing and controlling head of the lands of Assyria and Babylonia, in order that he may grant long years to his son the petesi of Arad — his son who loves Merodach." Another said "We approach thee, to serve thy majesty, oh sovereign lord, Merodach-Nimrod. Grant a pure and established life to thy son Rab-saki." Iscah was wrought up by the exaltation of all this pomp and splendor, and at the beckoning nod of her master, she too came forward and cried: "And I, the royal spouse, the all-powerful mistress of the world, I bring my homage also, to Nimrod-Merodach, king of gods and men. My heart rejoices in thy loving kindness; I leap with delight under the weight of thy favors. Oh thou, who dost establish the seat of thy power in the dwelling of men, thou Merodach —the lord of the world, accord to me a firmly established and pure life. May your years be counted by your periods of pageantries." Then with the unseeing gaze of the seer of visions, Iscah lifted up her pale and now agonized face, and with the deep but 448 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. shrill voice of the visionary she trumpeted forth as if moved by a power wholly without herself: "My well-beloved sovereign! Receive from Ishtar the power and the long days to pass upon the throne of Assyria. Thou shalt joyously control the world. Elkanah hath written down beside thy name all the royal attributes of the celestial One. The South and the North, the East and the West, shall be brought under thy yoke. All the good gates shall be opened to thee. I give the races of the earth to thee to trample beneath thy sandals. The force of thy arm shall triumph in all parts of the world, and the terror of thy name shall stamp itself deeply on the heaps of the barbarians. I give to thee, O my lord, the scythe of battle to restrain the foreign nations and to sever the bonds of the rebellious. Take the whip and the scepter to rule the land of Assyria. The Lady of the Celestial palace has prepared for thee the diadem of the sun. May this crown remain upon thy head where I place it forever." At these words, the excited girl seized the crown which lay on the altar where Nimrod had placed it to receive the anointing from the priest, and the priest stretched his pontifical staff to the four corners of the earth as if to emphasize the words of the new prophetess of Ishtar. The chanting of the priests was resumed, the incense was renewed in its vases, the marching priests took up the sacred strains, and Nimrod was ready to dedicate his newly prepared altar. Appeased, but not satisfied by all the lavish adulation he had received, he now turned to watch for the coming of Abram who was to perform the last sacred rites of dedication of the sacred altar by first plucking out the hearts of the three unhappy daughters of Azzi-jaami, and then their bodies were to be burnt in the sacred fires now blazing with brilliant fury upon the outer bronze altars. Meanwhile, the terraces and walls of the huge Ziggarut were ablaze with the millions of oil lamps and with the light of torches carried by the nude torch-bearers whose oily skins glistened in the flickerings of the light, while preparing for the rising of the full moon over the eastern corner of the sanctuary. The gardens below were filling rapidly with crowds of worshipers the men and the women of Ur, preparing themselves in all gravity for the terrible saturnalia which ever followed on the yearly sacrifice of human flesh. The white mousseline robes of the aristocracy were very thin and floated like cloudlets round their quivering bodies as they swung their arms in the rhythm of the music or danced in solemn invocation to the god Elkanah. The gleaming, nude limbs of the brown and glossy black soldiers and priests shone dully between the fluttering and scanty white raiment of the crowds of patrician women, the brilliant colored robes of the THE PRINCE OF UR. 449 neophytes, fringed and embroidered, dazzling the eye with its riot of coloring. On the lower terrace, the mass of writhing, singing and shouting people proved by their revolting coarseness of gesture and the husky tones of their voices that they were the scum and sputa of the city's populace. Scarce waiting for the darkness of midnight, much less for the rising of the moon-god, these bestial worshipers of the goddess Ishtar had waited for hours and were already drunk with the wrath and fornication of the coming idol-worship. On the terrace, the circling forms of dancing warriors and priests were now and then separated and joined again as delicate-limbed women who broke into their ranks whirled in and out of the service ritual. There was small suggestion on the upper terraces of the coarse and common ribaldry which marked the orgies of the masses below but in the dusky, gleaming eyes of the warrior devotees, and the coquettish glancing of the patrician women and the flitting here and there of lovely children who carried small incense-lamps, or brought messages from the upper terrace to the nobles below, there was an air of wild, suppressed excitement. Here, too, the priests moved about, stimulating the coming saturnalia of worship by cunningly worded songs, or by suggestions to an occasional laggard youth or maiden who betrayed the untaught fear and horror of the country-bred. On the upper terrace, hundreds of feet above them all, the high priests of Ur were busily engaged preparing the human sacrifice. The great iron framework, made like an Assyrian bedstead, stood in front of the golden couch and table in the holy place. On the further side of the shrine was the beautifully wrought golden lamps. Just outside the gleams of the altar furnace shone redly. The cruel pronged frame stood black and grim groaning for its prey before the porch of the sanctuary. Within the holy place of the sanctuary, the priests had renewed the lights of the mammoth, gleaming, golden candelabra, with its hundred small receptacles for oil and wick. The light glistened on the ruddy golden form of the gold Elkanah, so called by the Shemites — Izdubar by the Assyrians and brought into hideous relief all the brutal lines of strength and sensual power which showed tragically through the crown of many sparkling jewels bent low upon his fiercely chiseled eyebrows, and glistening, jeweled eyes, while the tight curled beard and hair, the lion in one hand, the scimitar in the other hand, proclaimed the favorite characteristics of Nimrod. The golden altar upon which was placed the blood of the victims— both human and animal now was wreathed in flowers, and the constant burning of incense filled the temple courts. The huge forms of the priests moved softly about in the 450 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. sacred enclosure, some were casting omens or singing psalms, some muttering incantations, some of them swinging censors, some preparing the sacred vessels, and some were polishing long, gleaming knives whose sinister sparkles caught the reflection of the lights within the Shrine. There was a silence and an awed hush over the small enclosure of the Shrine which comported well with the awful character of the events about to take place within that temple of idol worship. Three dark female forms were stretched upon three stone altars outside the Shrine, tied with thongs, their mouths stopped with cotton saturated with oil. A little child sat under the shadow of the altar innocently playing with a basket of dates. Suddenly there was a blast of trumpets, prolonged again and again, and instantly every form on every terrace was prostrated to the ground. The last echoes of the trumpets had scarcely ceased when a thousand female voices began the hymnal to the moon-goddess Ishtar and below their piercing, vibrant tones the richer voices of the men-singers joined their rhythmical chanting to the god Elkanah, or the sun-god of the Assyrians. The still and solemn gloom of the inner shrine was broken now by a faint light stealing up over the low horizon of the flat valley of the Euphrates, and the trumpets again shrilled out their welcome, drowning momentarily the harmonies of the singing voices. Up the lower flight of stairs which lead up to the great Ziggarut, started the trumpeteers, followed by the nearly nude women choristers, their melodious voices winding in and out of the harmonies with such weird effect that even the priests on the upper platform were thrilled with their vibrations. The bass notes of their brother-singers who followed them up the long and tedious climb, sank and rose with even harmonies that gave the words they were chanting some deeper meaning than was customary, even to this powerful and wealthy temple ritual: "Lord, prince of gods of heaven and earth, whose mandate is exalted. Father, God enlightening earth. Lord, good god, of gods the prince. God of the month. Lord of the alabaster houses, of gods the prince. Lord of crowns. Awarder of kingdoms, of gods the prince. Father, by lowering the proud himself enlarging, of gods the prince. Timely crescent, mightily horned, doom-dealer, splendid with orb fulfilled! Self produced, from his home forth issuing, pouring evermore plenteous streams. High exalting, all-producing, life unfolding from above. Father, he who life reneweth in thy circuit through all lands. God's sire, and men's, of childhood guide, even Ishtar's self thou didst create. Primeval seer, rewarder fixing the doom of days remote. Unshaken chief, whose heart benign is never mindful of thy wrongs. Whose blessings cease not, ever flowing, leading on his fellow gods. Who from depth to height bright piercing openeth the gate of heaven. Father mine, of life the giver, cherishing all, beholding all." And the people answered in one mellow response "Thou! Thy will who knoweth? Who with aught can it compare? Lord, in heaven and earth thy lordship of the gods none equals thee." As the mighty procession gained the sixth platform, the assembled ten thousand thousand of kneeling votaries sang, wept, groaned or bellowed in their desire to augment the peans of praise thus uttered to their god. The moon was near the rim of the eastern horizon, and as the great procession gained the upper platform, the rounded crescent showed her silver tip. As this gracious sight burst upon the prostrate multitude a very paroxysm smote the whole assemblage. Out from the temple strode the huge form of the king, his sacerdotal outer garments glistening with rich jewels. The high-priest seized the little unconscious black child, whose one piercing cry was permitted to cleave the throbbing midnight air, ere he was strangled and flung upon the huge furnace altar to be offered as the first propitiate of the moon-god in this holy rite. The trumpet blasts from the ascending columns of musicians drowned the cry of the infant. The towering form of the king, in his gleaming robes and jewelled crown approached to the edge of the upper platform, to meet the ascending procession of priests, and with one arm upraised he spread abroad his opened fingers to give the death sign to some one not yet in the upper altar-place. His powerful voice rose bellowing like some great forest animal's, as he chanted these magic Chaldean words: "The offspring who raises the head among mankind — his offspring for his life he shall give; the head of the offspring for the head of the man he shall give; the neck of the offspring for the neck of the man he shall give the breast of the offspring for the breast of the man he shall give." A silence like the cloud of death fell everywhere. The gods were not fully appeased. The sum of human life now offered was incomplete. Other victims awaited the knife and the fire. Men looked furtively at each other. Women shrunk with the nameless fear which clutches at the heart when the shadowy wings of death brood over earth. "The head of the offspring for the head of the man he shall give." The powerful chanting voices of all the musicians took up the strain and as they clustered at the foot of the upper stairway, they sang this challenge to life and death with changing tones and 452 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. rising harmonies. The cymbals struck their pleas but the trumpets were silent. Their blast was sounded only at the completion of the sacrifice. "The breast of the offspring for the breast of the man he shall give." The moon-god was riding her silver chariot with rapid upward motion. The stars shone blue and cold in the refulgence cast by their sister luminary. Ishtar-Korash rode between the crescents of her bows and gloated over the sweet odors of human sacrifice rising from the altars of her temple. "The neck of the offspring for the neck of the man he shall give." Down in the lower platform some small groups of shepherd-clad soldiers crawled and wormed their way along out to the very extremity of the eastern parapet. Above on the second platform, the soldier Lot stood very near the burning torches, their light paling before the rising gleams of the moon-god. Several of his warrior friends seeing him, themselves sons of aristocratic fathers and noble mothers, came to him casting his sulkiness in his teeth. He had no word of laughter, no sugar-sweet flattery of girls who passed him throwing out to him an arm of soft invitation, or perchance trying to brush his lips in passing. He stood, gloomy and remote. But he saw from the tail of his eye more than one of his comrades and relatives go slipping by to some common rendezvous at the back end of this richly decorated platform. "What secret gallantry art up to, Lot, that thy brows are drawn in such dismay because the little temple maidens do fetch you sweet allurements for your midnight choice?" "I have no girl to watch nor wait for, not in this crowd of flippant, painted wantons," growled Lot, who liked not that his presence there should even momentarily give color to the idea that he might be following in the licentious steps of the prince Mardan. "He has his golden-haired treasure hidden in his father's own palace, I'll be bound," cried a matron, whose pouting lips of coral and full proportions 'neath her outer slimpsey mousselin coverings gave evidence of a too-bountiful bestowal of nature's charms. "He hath no eyes for delicate loveliness of youth nor even yet for those fuller flavored charms which invite to better things." The sally brought a storm of laughter on poor Lot, and he moved slightly away, although he did not forsake his place by the torches. The loud and reverberating tones of the king smote them as he took up the last stanza of the death decree. "When the sun-god, Elkanah is fine, prosperity comes. "And on the high places the son is burnt." The quivering voices of the musicians took up the chant, and the faces of even the jesters paled for a moment but they had THE PRINCE OF UR. 453 steeled themselves long ago to the necessities of their awful worship. What the gods demanded must be given. They were worshipers, not priests. They left all religious reasoning and rituals to those who understood them. "I have given mine own first-born," said the matron who had spoken before to the little group gathered about her her lips quivered, but she added with a steely glitter in her eyes, "It was his father's life or his. He has paid the price." "And his father?" cried a youth with a jewelled cane and with curled and perfumed hair falling on his gold-embroidered tunic "what of his father?" The mocking gibe may have stung, but the woman showed nothing of it as she caught the young man by his curls and pulled him down to her face to punish him with kisses. Lot was filled with supreme disgust. But he stirred not, as the priests shouted, the cymbals and the harps poured forth their tinkling melodies and the singers chanted the refrain over and over: "On the high places the son is burnt." Just at the foot of the lower stairs a quick, short trumpet blast of peculiar significance announced to those above that the local officiating high priest was approaching. Men hurried to the edges of the platforms and peered over in the moonlight to see who it was that was thus being so magnificently announced. The innocent victim already slain had certainly seemed enough. But to that hardened part of humanity massed upon the lower terrace, there was something in the very smell of blood that sends a shuddering excitement into the vitals of all who partake of that terrible phenomena. The gathered masses on these terraces were not unused to this thrilling lure. They were ready to cry, with their animal brother of the jungle, "More blood, more blood." The marching feet of soldiers fell upon the stairs with solemn beat. The multitude could not discern who it was that walked between with the white mantle of the high priesthood, folded across his breast. He was tall, this new great dignitary, and his form towered above even the mighty forms of the northern Assyrian and Accadian soldiers. "Hey," cried a Nubian wench who carried her child across her hip, "it looks like Prince Abram." "Hush thou slutish blabber," cried a magnificent black votary, herself a Nubian but of coarse and heroic physique. "Close thy loosened lips over that shovel tongue of yours and get thee to thy knees. The gods demand their price." (to be continued.) Home Science Department. By Janette A. Hyde. UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT AS AN INFORMATION BUREAU. We wish our readers everywhere could realize the necessity for writing to our delegates in Congress for some of the many helpful bulletins issued by the United States Department of Agriculture. Any who desire to secure the pamphlets referred to below may do so by writing to Senator Reed Smoot, Senator George Sutherland or to Congressman Joseph Howell, address, Washington, D. C. Fish as Food, No. 85. — In this little pamphlet we have instructions as to the value and use of fish, the nutritive value of fish, composition of fish, cost of protein and energy in fish and other foods, digestibility, how to prepare fish for the table, and the possible danger from eating fish. Economical Use of Meat in the Home, No. 391, tells us of the cuts and cost of meat, methods of preparing it, reducing the expenses, utilizing the cheaper cuts of meat in palatable dishes, casserole cookery, chopped meat in various ways, developing and improving the flavor of meat, Indian curry, sauces and mock venison. Use of Milk as Food, No. 363, has the sources and kinds of milk composition and characteristics of milk milk as the possible carrier of disease, condensed milk and milk powder, care of milk in the home, milk for infants, special infant foods and milk products. Cheese and its Economical Uses in the Diet, No. 487, has, in addition to the description of various cheeses, discussions concerning its nutritive value and digestibility with about 50 recipes for the use of cheese, combined with vegetables, macaroni and breads. Mutton and its Value in the Diet, No. 526, contains discussion of digestibility, relative economy, how and when to use, with about 50 practical and toothsome recipes for its use in every possible way. Corn Meal as a Food and Ways of Using It, No. 565, gives the origin and composition of corn, kinds of corn, meal and its uses, relation of corn meal to the balanced ration, the cooking of corn meal and its combination with other foods, with 60 recipes for its preparation. The Manufacturing Uses of Unfermented Grape Juice, No. 644, is an excellent bulletin, giving the composition of grape THE PRINCE OF UR. 455 juice, cause and prevention of fermentation, flavor and quality of grape juice, how to manufacture it at home, and valuable appliances for home use. Added to this is a long article, illustrated, on the commercial methods of making the juice with some recipes for its use both for the sick and the well. Honey and its Uses in the Home, No. 653, after the introduction, tells us about the food value of honey, its flavor and wholesomeness, economy of honey as food, and uses of honey in cookery, with over 50 recipes for honey in breads, cakes, cookies, deserts, preserved fruits, ices and candy. The Food for Young Children, No. 717, gives illustrations and instructions with menus and recipes for the feeding of young children. All of these recipes are not only scientifically tested for quality and food values for the child, they are also most appetizing and attractive in their composition. The following questions illustrate the exactitude with which this pamphlet has been prepared to meet the needs of the child A REVIEW. In the foregoing pages some general principles which should govern the young child's diet have been stated, and facts given about foods the child should have and about cooking them. At the close of the day the mother might ask herself questions like the following, to make sure that she has taken into account the things to which her attention has been directed Did each child take about a quart of milk in one form or another? Have I taken pains to see that the milk that comes to my house has been handled in a clean way? If I was obliged to serve skim milk for the sake of cleanliness or economy, did I supply a little extra fat in some other way? Were the fats which I gave the child of the wholesome kind found in milk, cream, butter, and salad oils, or of the unwholesome kind found in doughnuts and other fried foods? Did I make good use of all skim milk by using it in the preparation of cereal mushes, puddings, or otherwise? Were all cereal foods thoroughly cooked? Was the bread soggy? If so, was it because the loaves were too large, or because they were not cooked long enough? Did I take pains to get a variety of foods from the cereal group by serving a cereal mush once during the day? Did I keep in mind that while cereals are good food in themselves, they do not take the place of meat, milk, eggs, fruit, and vegetables? Did I keep in mind that children who do not have plenty 456 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. of fruit and vegetables need whole-wheat bread and whole grains served in other ways? Did each child have an egg or an equivalent amount of meat, fish, or poultry? Did any child have more than this of flesh, foods or eggs? If so, might the money not have been better spent for fruits or vegetables? If I was unable to get milk, meat, fish, poultry, or eggs, did I serve dried beans, or other legumes thoroughly cooked and carefully seasoned? Were vegetables and fruits both on the child's bill of fare once during the day? If not, was it because we have not taken pains to raise them in our home garden? Did either the fruit or the vegetables disagree with the child? If so, ought I to have cooked it more thoroughly, chopped it more finely, or have removed the skins or seeds? Was the child given sweets between meals, or anything that tempted him to eat when he was not hungry? Was he allowed to eat sweets when he should have been drinking milk or eating cereals, meat, eggs, fruit, or vegetables? Were the sweets given to the child simple, i. e., unmixed with much fat or with hard substances difficult to chew, and not highly flavored? Was the child made to eat slowly and chew his food properly? A young child may be considered well fed if he has plenty of milk, bread, and other cereal foods and egg once a day or its equivalent in flesh foods a small portion each of carefully prepared fruits and vegetables, with a small amount of sweet food, after his appetite for other foods is satisfied. If there is too much or too little of any of these, his diet is one sided. Senator Reed Smoot's splendid speech in the Senate on the Science of Home Economics is, without exception, the clearest and most complete assembling of facts and statement of needs and conditions in the homes of the people of the United States ever before presented. Our Relief Society members can obtain free copies of this booklet by addressing Senator Reed Smoot, Senate Chamber, Washington, D. C. We are proud to have a senator who so ably and fully represents the interests of the women of this State, and of all the United States, in the suffrage and in the home interests which are so dear to us all. Crochet Nut Basket. Isabel W. Sears. Stitches used — Chain (ch.) Catch cotton with hook, making loop, draw cotton through this loop which makes the first stitch. Repeat draw through as many loops as wanted, each loop is termed a chain stitch. Slip stitch (sl. st.) Put hook through the work, thread over hook, draw it through the stitch on hook. Single crochet (s. c.) Having stitch on hook, put hook through work and draw thread through, making two stitches on hook, thread over hook and draw through both stitches. Treble crochet (t. c.) Having stitch on hook, put thread over hook put hook through work and draw thread through, making three stitches on hook, put thread over hook, draw through two stitches put thread over hook and draw off the two remaining stitches. Picot (p.) A picot is made by making four or five chain, going back and drawing thread through first chain with sl. st. CROCHET NUT BASKET. 457 Chain 22, turn, thread over, put hook in fourth st. from hook with t.c. Make 1 t. c. in each ch., 3 t. c. in last ch. Keep on round with t. c. in each ch. and 3 in first and last ch. Fasten to first t. c. with sl. st., ch. 3. 2 t. c. in first t. c, t. c. in next t. c. giving round widening round ends to keep flat. Make 9 rows of t. c. 10th round — Ch. 3, t. c. in next 3 t. c, ch. 4, skip 4, 4 t. c. in next 4 t. c. Repeat to place of beginning and fasten with sl. st. in 3rd ch. at beginning. 11th round — Ch. 7, 3 t. c. in next 4 ch., ch. 4, 4 t. c. in next 4 ch. to end of row. Fasten in third ch. from beginning. 12th round — Same as 11th round. 13th round — Ch. 3, 1 t. c. in each t. c. and each ch. to end of row. Fasten with sl. st. 14th round — 4 s. c. in first 4 t. c, ch. 4, skip 4, 4 s. c. in next 4 t. c, ch. 4, 4 s. c. in next 4 t. c. Continue to end of row and fasten with sl. st. in first s. c. You may have to skip more or less to make them come out even. 15th round — Ch. 7, fasten in center of the 4 s. c. with sl. st., ch. 4, 4 t. c. in 4 ch., ch. 4, fasten in center of next 4 s. c, ch. 4, 4 t. c. in next 4 ch. to end of row, making 3 t. c. in last 4 ch. Fasten with sl. st. in 3rd ch. of the first 7 ch. 16th round — Ch. 4, 4 s. c. in next 4 t. c, ch. 4, 4 s. c. in next 4 t. c. to end of row. 458 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. 17th round — Same as fifteenth round. 18th round — Same as 16th round. 19th round — Same as 15th round. 20th round — Same as 16th round, except ch. 5 instead of 4. 21st round — Ch. 3, 1 t. c. in each s. c. and each ch. to end and fasten with sl. st. 22nd round — Ch. 3, 3 to t. c. in next t. c, ch. 3, skip 2, 5 s. c. in next 5 t. c, ch. 3, skip 2, 4 t. c. in next t. c. Continue to end of row, may have to skip one or more to make scallops come out even. There must be an even number of scallops. 23rd round — Draw thread to center of the 4 t. c, ch. 3, 1 t. c. in center of 4 t. c, ch. 2, 2 t. c. in same place, ch. 4, 3 s. c. in the 5 s. c, ch. 4, 2 t. c. in center of 4 t. c, ch. 2, 2 t. c. in same place, ch. 4, 3 s. c. in 5 s. c, continue round, fasten last 4 ch. in third ch. you started with. 24th round — Ch. 3, 2 t. c. in the 2 ch., ch. 3, 3 t. c. in same place, ch. 4, 1 s. c. in center of 3 s. c, ch. 4, 3 t. c. in 2 ch., ch. 3, 3 t. c. in same place, ch. 4, 1 s. c. in center of 3 s. c, ch. 4, 3 t. c. in 2 ch., ch. 3, 3 t. c. in same 2 ch. Continue to end of row and fasten last 4 ch. in third ch. from where you started. 25th round — Ch. 3, 3 t. c. in 3 t. c, ch. 5, 4 t. c. in next 3 t. c, 4 t. c. in next 3 t. c, ch. 5, 4 t. c. in next 3 t. c. Repeat to end of row and fasten with sl. st. CROCHET NUT BASKET. 459 26th round — 4 s. c. in 4 t. c, ch. 2, 1 t. c. in the 5th ch., ch. 2, 1 t. c. in same place, ch. 2, 1 t. c. in same place, ch. 2, 1 t. c. in same place, ch. 2, 8 s. c. in 8 t. c, ch. 2, 1 t. c. in the 5th ch., ch. 2, 1 t. c. in same place, ch. 2, 1 t. c. in same place, ch. 2, 1 t. c. in same place, ch. 2, 8 s. c. in 8 t. c. Repeat to end and fasten with needle and cotton. HANDLE Start between two scallops on side. Make 4 s. c, ch. 1, turn. 4 s. c. in 4 s. c, ch. 4, make p., turn, 4 s. c. in 4 s. c, ch. 1, turn, 4 s. c. in 4 s. c, ch. 1, 4 s. c. in 4 s. c, ch. 4, make p, turn 4 s. c. in 4 s. c. Continue until you have 2½ inches. Fasten thread on under side, skip 3 scallops and make 2½ inches same as last then catch up the first piece and continue across end making the 8 s. c. wide, ch. 1, turn and continue on until you have 3¼ inches, then make 4 s. c. which will bring you to the center, ch. 1, turn and make 4 s. c, ch. 4, p. turn, 4 s. c. in last 4 s. c, ch. 1, turn and continue until you have 2½ inches. Fasten between 2 scallops same as other side, then go back and make another 2½ inches on the other side and fasten, leaving 3 scallops between. Fasten on wrong side with needle and thread. Wash and starch in thick boiled starch or sugar syrup, and stretch over a mold or dish until dry. Notes from the Field. Amy Brown Lyman. The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was represented in the executive session of the National Council of Women of the United States by Miss Alice Louise Reynolds, who was in New York at the time. Miss Reynolds was received everywhere with great cordiality and made many friends for the Society. She reported that while in Washington the influence and great prestige of Senator Smoot opened many doors to her and constituted her a force and power in the councils of the women of the nation by reason of the senator's reflected light. She was shown every attention and courtesy, as were the other Utah women, by Senators Smoot and Sutherland and Congressman Howell, and Miss Reynolds was happy in extending some privileges to women in other states through the courtesy of our Utah delegation. The following is the report of Miss Reynolds, which was made to the General Board at the meeting held on June 15, 1916: The board meeting of the National Council of Women was held at the Hotel Astor, New York, June 2, 1916, Mrs. Philip N. Moore, president, in the chair. Lady Aberdeen of the International Council was present. The measure reducing dues to $10 failed to obtain the two-thirds vote to make it legal. This was not observed until later. The president said there was nothing to do but have the dues stand at ten dollars this year. All national organizations will pay ten dollars state and local councils pay five dollars. Several new organizations were admitted, among others the General Federation of Women's Clubs. One organization was refused because it was not national in character. A committee of three members was appointed to revise the constitution. It was urgent that it be determined just who shall constitute the board of directors and just who shall be eligible to vote at council sessions. President Moore urged that more publicity be given the work of the national council. It was suggested that each organization affiliated set apart a day to explain the work and the purpose of the National Council. Every woman adopted the California Magazine as the official organ of the National Council. Each organization is to receive a copy. A letter from Mrs. May Wright Sewell was read. The president said she did not have the required information to answer the NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 461 letter without assistance. Two persons were chosen to assist her in answering the letter. The National Council stationery will carry the names of the officers of the National Council, and the names of the officers of the International Council with whom the National Council is affiliated. Permanent committees to do the special work of the Council were chosen. Names will be sent to the chairman of persons for committee. She may accept, reject or appoint others. The work must be expert work. The president said that in other organizations, chairmen are frequently learning the work themselves, but the work of the National Council of Women must be expert. Mrs. Martha H. Tingey was chosen as chairman of the Committee on Marriage and Divorce. The work of the Committee on Co-operation was regarded a very good thing. Chairmen of some of the committees — Education Miss Smith, professor at Bryn Mawr College. — Immigration Mrs. Kate Waller Barratt. — Pan-Americanism Mrs. Percy V. Pennybacker. Suffrage — Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. Resolution Resolved, that the first duties of the American woman in this world-crisis is to make American ideals and patriotism as efficient as possible in the service and friendship of the world. The Oneida Stake Relief Society has recently sustained a great loss in the removal and resignation of Mrs. Laura B. Benson who has been president of that stake for twelve years. She was engaged in official work in the Relief Society before that period in Cache stake for sixteen years as stake secretary, and first counselor, which makes a record of thirty-two years' active service in the Relief Society. Sister Benson is one of the most intelligent presidents this society has ever had. Forceful, dignified, tireless and tactful, she has numbered her friends in the widening ratio of her numberless acquaintances. She has been greatly beloved and honored in the northern part of the state. Brother and Sister Benson have removed to Logan to engage in temple work, and from this time forward Sister Benson will devote her time to genealogy and temple labors. What a glorious advance she has made and is now making. The Oneida stake was organized with the following officers President — Mrs. Nellie Head. First Counselor — Mrs. Lucy M. Cutler. Second Counselor — Mrs. Phoebe McNiel. The new stake board arranged a banquet and social in honor 462 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. of their retiring president, and enjoyed the sweet spirit of communion which prevailed throughout the occasion. MILK STATIONS. The General Board of the Relief Society, acting under the direction and advice of the First Presidency and the Presiding Bishopric, have co-operated with the city officials in providing five nurses to serve at the milk stations during the heated term in this city. The public health committee have attended to all the details and have met with enthusiastic help from every source. The names of those who are to have charge of the station work are Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth. At the Home Economics Conference, held at Cornell University, June 28 to July 3, the Relief Society was represented by the chairman of our Home Science committee, Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, as well as by our general secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, and the treasurer, Mrs. Emma A. Empey. Two of President Smith's daughters, the Misses Emily and Edith Smith, accompanied the sisters on this trip. Dr. E. G. Peterson invited these representatives of the General Board to act as delegates to represent the Agricultural College of Utah. It was impossible for Miss Gertrude McCheyne, who is at the head of the extension work in home economics in that college, to be present at this congress, and Dr. Peterson was very pleased to be so ably represented through our board members. At the close of the convention, Mrs. Lyman, Mrs. Empey and Mrs. Hyde, together with the Misses Smith, visited the branches of the Relief Society throughout the Eastern and Northern States Missions. The First Presidency of the Church were very much pleased to have these sisters visit our associate workers in the mission field. It was expected that Sister Julina L. Smith would head the party, but when she found it impracticable to do so, President Joseph F. Smith named Mrs. Lyman to go in her place. We may expect excellent results from this historic trip. It is the first time that any representatives from this board have undertaken so extensive and important a trip in the mission fields. On their return we will, no doubt, be favored with an interesting account of their experiences. Current Topics. James H. Anderson. A German submarine has crossed the Atlantic Ocean to the United States — this being the greatest feat on record thus far for an undersea boat. Murray City, seven miles south of Salt Lake City, has again voted to exclude the saloon — this time by a larger majority than heretofore. It is notable that the women voters were the chief contributors to this result. V. Carranza, whom the American policy placed at the head of the Mexican republic, by reason of favors shown his cause, turned and plunged the United States into practically a state of war with Mexico — a not altogether unexpected culmination of events. The bomb which exploded in an Oregon Short Line mail car at Butte, Montana, and which was asserted by some to have been intended for the governor of Utah, is now shown to have not been intended for Utah at all, but for a station in Idaho. O. N. Hilton, the Denver lawyer who abused the Utah courts and people because the murderer Hillstrom was convicted and executed, has been disbarred from practicing law in Utah. By his actions and language, long since, Hilton barred himself from being listed as a gentleman. Archaeology in Utah is receiving special attention from the State University, through an expedition headed by Prof. L. E. Young. Southeastern Utah doubtless will contribute its share of archaeology testimony to the fact that the New World, after all, is practically as old in its civilization as is the eastern hemisphere. The Old Folks of northern Utah had one of the most enjoyable of Old Folks' Day observances in June this year, the assemblage at the Temple Block in Salt Lake City comprising nearly 5,000 people over 70 years of age. Presidential nominations for the two great political parties in the United States have resulted in the choice of Charles E. Hughes of New York by the Republicans and the re-nomination of Woodrow Wilson of New Jersey by the Democrats. The 464 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. political contest promises to be hard and close. Courtesy in public officials is not altogether eliminated from among the things the people demand and expect, as shown in the fact that a deputy auditor in Salt Lake County was required by the board of county commissioners to apologize to a young woman to whom he had been needlessly discourteous. Equal suffrage for women has made a notable gain in receiving favorable mention in the great national political conventions in the United States. The woman suffragists seem better satisfied with the Republican than with the Democratic pronouncement, but as to the cause itself in which they are interested there is in each of them a great stride forward. Earl H. H. Kitchener, England's great soldier, was drowned in the sinking of the warship Hampshire, which struck a mine off the British coast. Much of England's success in army organization during the present war is due to Kitchener's skill and energy; and he was about the only one of the great military leaders who foresaw that the war would be a long one on the first day of the outbreak he estimated that it would last three years. The Mexican situation has grown so much worse recently through attacks of Mexican troops on parts of the American punitive expedition which started into Mexico after the bandit Villa, that the national guard of the various States, aggregating about 150,000 men, has been called into active service by President Wilson. The first contingent of the national guard to reach the front under this call was Battery A, Utah, its destination being Nogales, Arizona. Utah will send upwards of a thousand of its troops, at the first call, for Mexican service. The anti-prohibitionists in Utah are directly and vigorously supporting Gov. Wm. Spry for a third term as governor of Utah. One of his opponents for the Republican nomination is Edward E. Jenkins of Salt Lake City, who is a determined advocate of the immediate prohibition of the whisky traffic in Utah, and who also believes that the burden of taxation on the people of the State is unnecessarily heavy. The threat of the saloon element is that if the Republicans do not accept their candidate they will put up a third ticket in the State. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. III. AUGUST, 1916. No. 8. WILL CONQUERING. How shall I conquer this human will, that best The Human of servants and cruelest of masters? How shall Will. I make my will obedient to the divine will? How rescue my will from the evil will, and how shall I will for myself peace, power, plenty and health? That divine power within us to do or to leave undone which we call will, is the chief cause of all our suffering, as of all our joy. We can will to be at peace in the most agonizing circumstances, as we can also will to be unutterably wretched, in the most tranquil and peaceful environment. The potentiality of the human will is least understood by the mental scientists who assume to discuss its powers and to define its possibilities; this, too, because the philosophers take no account of the action and reaction of the Divine will, and the demoniac will, upon the human will. The human will has not only to battle with itself The Contest in choosing the good or the evil, there is also a of Wills. constant friction and warfare with other human wills. The unseen wills, working in the dark, often thwart our most cherished desires, our best-laid plans. The conflict of wills is the most ennobling, as it is the most degrading force in the universe, and constitutes our most divine 466 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. and most wretched experiences. I want a position; my neighbor is working and willing to get the place. I want to take a ride, my husband wants me to remain at home. I want quiet, my little son enjoys banging his hammer on a tin plate. Whose will shall conquer? I am ill — I want to be well. Perchance, the Divine will sees it necessary, or the demoniac will What Shall finds it possible, to continue my suffering. I am I Do? poor — I desire means, a house, an income, money. It may well be that a cloud of human wills are reaching out for the very house, the very dollar I am fiercely struggling for. Who shall finally conquer? Don't mistake obstinacy for will, nor laziness for Obstinacy quiescence. The dominant will is often the most and Will. intelligent will. Obstinacy and ignorance are twins, and lazy wills are ever willing to succumb to other wills. The strong will, controlled by the intelligent mind, is a great force for good or evil in any community. The selfish will hides under puzzling exteriors — tender, womanly, tears, and tantrums are often the expression of cruelly selfish wills. Desire is not always will "hell is paved with good intentions," said the old preacher. How easily I bend this will of mine in the wrong The Bent direction and how quickly it sets into hard lines Twig. of habit that destroy my power to progress. "I never sleep before midnight — I wake up every night at three, and lie till morning" three repetitions of this assertion, and the habit is well on to a fixed condition. "I can't eat prunes — I am obliged to take pills every night — I have a weak liver — I always lose my temper when my husband takes coffee — I can't live without my tea — I cannot bear this loss or trouble — I cannot bear it" and lo, the thing is so. I say it is so, and my obedient will hastens to make the assertion true. If I would only say inside myself — "I can go to sleep at ten — my liver will be healed by the power of faith I shall not get angry no matter what my husband does — I will forget my loss, I will be at peace — I will — I will — I will and lo the thing begins to be so. "As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he," says the Preacher. The chastened will, molded by an invincible The Human faith in God and His earth purposes, will lead the Will Purified human soul into final glory. We may not always will ourselves health, peace, wealth or happiness. If we could, life would offer us no discipline. Into our great human battlefield, march battalions of other wills, officered by both good and evil powers. We enter upon daily engagements, hourly conflicts. The bugle call of duty flings us into the fray, and we toss and struggle and fight— sometimes against windmills and sometimes with our own shadows. I will— to do good! I will to be obedient to my file leader. I will to obtain health and to maintain it. I am torn by ravening appetites, but I will to refrain. I am beset with revengeful thoughts, but I will to pray for those that despitefully use me. I am angry, but I will keep silence, speak softly. I am poor, but I will to feel rich, to cultivate opulent thoughts. I am sick, I will to be healed, to be sound in limb and body. Yet in all this I will— O Lord, I will— to submit my will to the will of God, while waiting for Him to speak. I will be at peace, I will still fight for the good, and still struggle for victory. The Toilers. By Maud Baggarley. Oh thou who hast striven through all the long years Who hath known bitter heartache Hath wept secret tears; Yet labored serenely through heat and through rain, For the sake of the hands clinging, Hath hidden thy pain. The while a voice called thee, insistently sweet, Thy high spirit hampered By slow plodding feet Of those who didst need thee. Unsung the glad songs astir in thy heart That fluttered and beat like imprisoned wings Thy horny hands gnarled from toil Canst never awake from the string of a harp, Those measures divine Yet canst thou not see Thou shalt fear not nor fall, For triumph o'er self God ranks above all And for the missed baubles thou mightest have sought, In thine own life is a miracle wrought, Success out of failures; And joy out of pain The place near the stars Thou ne'er thought to gain! Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in September. WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. ESTHER. (Read the Story of Esther.) The "Book of Esther" is less popular than the "Book of Ruth," doubtless because its appeal is not so universal. The theme of the latter is personal loyalty that of the former is race loyalty. But the Jewish girl who followed her fortunes in a foreign land till she became the wife of the greatest monarch of her time is more of a character I do not say a better character than the foreign maiden who pursued her destiny into Palestine to reap in alien fields. Esther lived in what is known in Hebrew history as the Greek Period —the most probably. She was of the latter part, dispersion, that is to say, her people were scattered over the face of the land, whither they had been driven by the armies of a heathen king. In those days Ahasuerus ruled over an empire of a hundred twenty-seven provinces. A voluptuous tyrant, proud of his greatness, as greatness went in those days, he was led by his princes to put away his wife, Vashti, merely because she refused to expose her beauty to an assembly of notables of the empire. In her stead he chose Esther, a Jewish maiden, probably without knowing that she was Jewish. A crisis came in the fortunes of her people during her queenship, with which the "Story of Esther" concerns itself. Haman, a vain, conceited man whom the king had placed above the princes of his realm, contracted a violent dislike for Mordecai, Esther's uncle, and through him for the entire Jewish population. So he induced the king to order all the Hebrews to be massacred, "all Jews, both young and old, little children and women, in one day." And this monstrous crime would have been accomplished had it not been for the wit of Esther. At the suggestion of her uncle, Mordecai, she interceded with the king for her people. She invited the king and Haman to a special "banquet of wine," and in answer to the former's question, "What is thy petition, Queen GUIDE LESSONS. 469 Esther?" she said, "If I have found favor in thy sight, O king, and if it please the king, let my life be given me at my petition, and my people at my request for we are sold, I and my people, to be destroyed, to be slain and to perish." The king inquired who had presumed in his heart to do this. In reply the queen pointed the accusing finger at Haman, "An adversary and an enemy, even this wicked Haman." The result was that Haman was hanged on the gallows that he had had erected for Mordecai. Mordecai, partly through the influence of Esther and partly through an all but forgotten service he had performed for the king, was raised to Haman's power, the Jews were saved, and all ended happily. Esther was left an orphan. After the death of her parents, she fell to the care of her uncle, Mordecai, a shrewd man who knew when the tide was in. His niece "obtained favor in the sight of all them that looked upon her." It appears that, in addition to certain physical charms, she possessed a disposition that adjusted itself to circumstances with as little inconvenience as possible to others. "And the maiden pleased him," says the narrator, "and she obtained kindness of him and he speedily gave her things for purification, with her portions, and the seven maidens, which were meet to be given her, out of the king's household," "and she obtained kindness of him and he speedily gave her things for purification, with her portions, and the seven maidens, which were meet to be given her, out of the king's house. And he removed her and her maidens to the best place of the house of the women." Esther's character seems to be a compound of girlish dependence on sources outside herself, of womanly resource and mother-wit, and of a personal charm that won an easy place in the affections of those about her. Of this last quality I have already spoken. It remains to speak of the other two. All through the narrative it appears that she relies for initiative on the experienced wisdom of her uncle. She is obedient to his every suggestion. When she is first taken into the king's palace, she does not show "her people nor her kindred" for "Mordecai had charged her not to show it." And even after she had been made queen and was loved by the king "above all the women," she "did the commandment of Mordecai, like as when she was brought up with him." Later, when the decree was issued against the Jews, and Mordecai suggested that she should "make supplication unto him and make request before him for her people," she was distrustful of her power. She requested Mordecai to "gather together all the Jews that are present in Shushan," to fast for her three days, and "I also and my maiden will fast in like manner," Once, however, she senses the danger to her people and her power of delivering them, she becomes suddenly courageous and resourceful. "All the king's servants, and the people of the king's provinces," she tells her uncle, "do know, that whosoever, whether man or woman, shall come unto the king into the inner court, who is not called, there is one law for him, that he be put to death, except such to whom the king shall hold out the golden sceptre, that he may live." Nevertheless, she stoically accepted the risk. "I will go in unto the king," she adds, "which is not according to the law and if I perish, I perish." She entered the king's presence, and he extended the golden sceptre to her. To his question, "What wilt thou?" she answered evasively, "If it seem good unto the king, let the king and Haman come this day unto the banquet that I have prepared for him." But even then she, whether out of fearfulness or out of a desire to whet his curiosity, withheld her request in her people's behalf, and begged him to come to a second banquet with Haman. It was at this second feast that she revealed to her royal spouse the evil plot of the aspiring Haman. The immediate result of Esther's revelation of this man's dealings was that Haman was put out of the way. It remained for a second visit to the king by Esther to induce him "to reverse the letters devised by Haman" against the Jews. So Mordecai, who had by this time been given Haman's place, sent letters to all the provisional governors annulling the order issued to destroy the Hebrews. The queen, however, was not satisfied with this mere reversal. She wished for severer measures. Said Esther, when the king told her what the Jews had done to their enemies at Shushan, "If it please the king, let it be granted to the Jews which are in Shushan to do tomorrow also according to this day's decree, and let Haman's ten sons be hanged upon the gallows," which the king ordered done. The character of Esther stands out in that inimitable and effortless way peculiar to the writers of the Bible, and is drawn with the few fresco strokes which is the envy of modern novelists. She is not the domestic woman that Ruth is nor yet a Judith devoting herself to one bold deed rather is she the eternal woman, making use of her charms and her wit to plan by a series of stayed battles the salvation of a people to whom she is dedicated heart and soul. Nor is God left out of consideration, although His name does not occur in the whole story. Back of it all, however, is a religious atmosphere, an inexpressible something, that implies that God has a chosen people, that Israel is isolated, and that the Father is still caring for His people in the hollow of His hand. QUESTIONS. 1. Why is Ruth a more popular Biblical character than Esther? 2. Who was Esther? 3. Compare and contrast at as many points as you can the character of Ruth and Esther. GUIDE LESSONS. 471 4. What do you think of Esther's obtaining the king's consent for the Jews to be massacred? 5. Point out the things in Esther that differ from our ideals today; those that agree with ours. 6. In what respects do those times differ from ours? LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in September. LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in September. GENEALOGY. SURNAMES. A surname is a name sub-joined or added to the personal name. In other words, it is a family name. Surnames were not unknown in ancient times. The Romans had a personal name, then a family name, and then a tribal name. Hebrews also used surnames to some extent. Simon Barjonah was Simon of the tribe of Jonah. Like the personal name or Christian name, a surname is a means of identification for the individual. It is a family symbol, as it were. Simon may be one of ten thousand Hebrews. Simon Bar-jonah is one who belongs to the tribe or family of Jonah, and thus constitutes another means of identification, both for legal and social purposes. Surnames were not used in the modern sense until after the time of William the Conqueror. When he came over to England, with his horde of Norman adventurers and Barons, and conquered the Anglo-Saxon-Danish population, which had taken possession centuries before of the British Isles, William roughly seized the lands and properties of the Anglo-Saxons and quartered his nobles all over the land. Finding it necessary to secure these lands to their new owners by some surer means of identification, as well as to discover just how much landed property could be assessed in his new kingdom, William caused an extensive and minute survey of the kingdom to be made through heralds or Court agents which he sent out for that purpose. These heralds recorded their findings in what is known as the Domesday Book. The result of their records in this Book constitutes the very foundation of surname history for the English speaking peoples. "After the coronation of William no man could hold an acre by an ante-Norman title. All were obliged to obtain a deed from the king, and it was exceptional that a thegn of the time of King Edward should retain his possessions under King William. Dispossessed, he must sink to be tenant-farmer or a villein. The freeholder of his allodial land had become extinct, and a network of officials was cast over England, holding the people involved in its toils." The various owners of the manors and estates, both Saxon and Norman, found it necessary to designate themselves by a surname or added title beside their given or Christian names. As an illustration "At Christmas, 1171, Henry Courthose, son of Henry II., held his Court at Bayeux. It occurred to two Williams, the Seneschal of Brittany and the Governor of Normandy, to exclude from the outer hall every guest who was not named William, and they were able to admit 117 knights of that name, and this was in addition to the Williams who sat at table with the young king. It became necessary for men to assume some sort of surname in order to distinguish William from William, and John from John, hence there would be William White and William Brown. All kinds of whims, fancies, and circumstances, contribute to the making of surnames for the English speaking peoples. There were surnames taken from the father name and the mother name, from the castle and manor, from the village and the town. There were trade names and place names, nick and descriptive names, prefixes and suffixes. Add to all this the influx of Scandinavian names, of French names, especially with the Huguenot refugees, of Scottish and Irish names, and you have a confusion of surname sources that constitute almost a babel of unintelligible origins. If the genealogist, however, is to carry on his study and inquiry, back of 100 years, he must acquaint himself with the surname of his family on both the maternal and paternal sides. These surnames give vital clues to the history and origin of the family itself. We invite our students, therefore, to join in a study, not only of their own surnames, but also of the subject itself, so that we may become intelligent in our search for our ancestors. GUIDE LESSONS. 473 QUESTIONS. 1. What is a surname? 2. What can you say of Biblical surnames? 3. Who was William the Conqueror? (See English History.) 4. What do you know about the Domesday Book? 5. Who were the Angels? (See History or Encyclopedia.) 6. Who were the Saxons? 7. Who were the Jutes? 8. Who were the Danes, and how did they come into England? 9. How were surnames chosen? 10. Why is it necessary to have a name, or a surname? — Note. All genealogical committees, both ward and stake, are urged to arrange for a beginners class in the study and practice of genealogy, with the opening of this season. The advanced lessons we are taking up this year will be arranged so that all the students can follow them with profit and pleasure, but every ward should have a working knowledge of preparing and keeping genealogical information, and there is no better way to do this than by having regular lessons given through the winter months in each ward for beginners. ART AND ARCHITECTURE. INDIAN SUMMER LANDSCAPE, SUNSET, AND TWILIGHT. Indian Summer comes to the Rocky Mountain states with its most beautiful of sunsets, followed by wonderful twilights. These last come far into October. With the approach of Indian Summer, nature begins her preparation for the harvest the fruit of the flower and the grain of the seed. Nature's coloring deepens as the days pass, and with a show of modesty, she envelopes her flamboyant tints, with a lovely haze, which she drapes about her like a veil of blue gauze. The effect is to mellow and blend together extravagant and perhaps inharmonious colors. It is at evening and at early morning that the autumn haze is most effective. September Walk. When you take your walk to study Indian Summer effects, arrange to come home by twilight. If it should be you go to the canyon or on the hills, you will get the full benefit of the fall sunset. Select the spot to visit, carefully. Take one viewpoint, and! ; 474 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. parison of foliage through the months of September, October, November and December. Study the change in foliage in (a) mass of color, (b) character of foliage, (c) change in line, (d) change in feeling. Observation. My friend's observation is keen in some directions. She sees every detail of each lady's dress at the stake conference. She could even include an inventory of the color, shape, and price (if they were purchased in her town) of shoes, gloves, hat, and hose. And yet my friend's observation is very limited in a vital way. I know she would pass unnoticed the first wild geranium that blooms against the old picket fence. My little daughter has mounted in a herbarium twenty-seven varieties of neighborhood weeds, which she can name with ease (common name). My friend knows only the common name of three of these specimens, the remaining twenty-four being entire strangers to her, though she has passed and repassed them every day for twenty-five years. Eyes for What? Did God give eyes merely to keep us from stumbling over impediments in the road, or did he expect us to take notice of things about us? I am thankful I had a mother who put her finger on the wild geranium, and named it; gave me a bunch of Shepherd's Purse with pink Sweet Williams, and said, "pretty." She showed me where the wild violets grew, and where to find the Indian Paint Brush, the Lark's spur, the Lady Slipper, and the Wild Sweet Peas. How I loved to hunt them Every year the family traveled to the "city" by team 160 miles, to visit grandparents. All the way our parents pointed out new, strange foliage, and the many tints and shades of color directed our sight to the different birds and wild fowl, and to their strange, though interesting, sounds. I picture to this day many of those beautiful scenes, creeks, camping places, patches of pine, and scrub cedar, stretches of wild rose hedges on river banks, flocks of migrating wild fowl, flying and at rest. At night we slept between great thick quilts with wool batting. We knew the meaning of constellation, and watched the stars and planets come out at night. We knew the coyote's call, the mud hen's rasping note. A new, strange bird call brought us all up with sharpened ears. Thank God for mothers that see! Pray that the unseeing may learn to love real beauty, and enjoy life's gladsome experiences. I pray that the art supervisors may be well chosen. There is always one woman in the town who knows all about growing things, and can tell us much, if she can be aroused to lend assistance. She will not think it a trouble to walk a block to obtain a! GUIDE LESSONS. 475 finer view of a sunset. Nor will she be too "old fogyish" to take a walk on the hills, and let what is there rest and revive her tired brain and hungry soul QUESTIONS. a. Describe a corn patch with the autumn haze and sunset effect. b. Describe a corn patch, with autumn twilight effect after the shadows are gone. c. Describe a river bank on a September morning. d. Describe a harvesting scene with some action, such as threshing or cutting. e. Compare the change in color with that of January, April, and June. f. Which are the lightest notes in the Indian Summer landscape under sunlight? Which the darkest note? g. Describe the Indian Summer. h. What things have already been harvested? i. Make a sketch of a load of hay, haymen, and haycocks. Place the shadows as you see them. j. Make a sketch of cattle in meadows. ARCHITECTURE. Devotees and their Shrines, Page 134-136. EARLY REPUBLICAN PERIOD, AND THE REVIVALS. a. Describe the Early Republican Period, and describe the Revivals. b. At the close of the American Revolution, what called forth a great deal of new architecture? c. What effect had this on monumental architecture? d. What happened to the new Wren-Gibbs style during the Early Republican period? e. Describe the New York City Hall. f. Describe the Library University of Virginia. g. What effect had the Europeans' revivals upon American architecture of this time? h. What phase of architecture was most affected by the Revivals? i. Describe the White House. What three architectural influences does it show? Answer: It recalls Renaissance and Roman feeling, and the large English country house of the time. j. Describe the Sub-Treasury Building, New York City. 476 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. LESSON VI. Home Economics. Fourth Week in September. HOUSEHOLD WASTES. Outline. I. Introduction and Definition of Waste. II. Money Wastes. a. Extravagant buying. 1. Food. 2. Clothing. 3. Furniture. b. Extravagant using. 1. Food. 2. Clothing. 3. Furniture. III. Time Wastes. Standardizing labor. a. System in housework. b. c. Cooking and preparing of meals. IV. Energy Wastes. a. Motion Study. b. Labor Saving devices. V. False Economy. a. Bargain counters b. Using left overs. "Waste Not Want Not." 1. Waste is usually spoken of as that material of little or no intrinsic value, that of which we can make no further use. But there is another waste that means a great loss to the average American home and it is to this we wish to call your attention. 2. Money Wastes. When one thinks of waste one naturally thinks of "money waste" and this may be divided into two heads (a) extravagant buying and (b) extravagant using. (a) Extravagant Buying. 1. All the work of the home centers around the three meals each day. In the budget making we turn first to the food, here is the biggest item of expense. The "pay as you go" plan is the best; saves the most money, for this reason, where one goes to market to purchase food, by carefully planning one will know about what ought to be spent and accordingly will carry enough money to cover the expense. When the butcher is greeted, for instance, one has in mind a thirty cent steak, it is purchased and paid for. While nine times out of ten, if things are charged the butcher, would show an expensive cut of meat and the chances GUIDE LESSONS. 477 are next month's bill would see a dollar roast where one had only intended to spend thirty cents. There are times, however, where a roast of meat is real economy. Groceries bought in quantities is always a saving of money, time and energy. Such staples as flour, sugar, rice, beans, canned goods, starch, salt, etc., should always be in the house. By watching the market the housewife knows best when to buy these articles. The word of wisdom tells us to eat food in the season thereof. It is surely a waste of money to buy food, fruit and vegetables, for instance, out of season. One pays too big a price for the nourishment obtained. How often we find housewives buying more than is necessary; in small families, is this especially true. One dislikes to ask for fifteen cents worth of veal cutlets, for instance, because it is so little and yet, in Europe, one can buy ever so little without a feeling of stinginess. Why should an American be so far behind in the line of economy? 2. It is extravagant to buy clothing of extreme color or style. Fashion changes so rapidly that one will soon find one's closet filling up with useless clothing. It is more economical to buy staple materials and patterns. Such things as bed linen and table linen can better be bought from reliable dealers at sales, but do not make the mistake of over-stocking because things are cheap know why and for what you are buying before going to a store. The best materials, even though one has to pay more money, are more economical in the end. They wear longer, look better, and can be made better use of after the wearer is through with them. 3. As to the buying of furniture, money is wasted by buying an inferior article, with a feeling that it is cheap and need not have special care, consequently it does not last long and soon has to be replaced. It is better to buy a little at a time and buy good furniture. (b) Extravagant Using. Many times we find an extravagant use of food materials when there is a generous supply on hand. There is always a tendency to be wasteful where such is the case and the housewife must be ever watchful or the money saved by purchasing in quantities can easily be wasted and more too. There is also a tendency to serve more and eat more when the supply is great. Frequently we buy expensive clothes and wear them at unsuitable times, then when we are through with them, they are thrown away instead of being renovated and made over for some one else. It is a waste of clothing to have more than necessary. The biggest waste comes in wearing expensive, fine clothing inappropriately, for instance, silk hose for every day wear, expensive shoes to scrub and mop in, worn out party dresses in the kitchen, etc. Most of the waste in our furniture comes in having more than necessary and in not taking care of what we do have. Teach the children to respect furniture by keeping their feet off it. It is ridiculous to wear buttons and combs that mar the backs of expensive chairs, etc. 3. Time Wastes. There is no question but the American housewife is facing a great revolution in the manner of her housekeeping. The efficiency idea which has already revolutionized and standardized so many industrial plants has now reached the home, and we must make way for it. Civilization has become too complex, too full of new demands and difficulties. We must get rid of more of the industries of the home in order to meet this new demand. The modern home needs much less skill and vastly more mental and spiritual qualities. One writer has said, "and though each of the industries of the home has to be packed out of the house separately there is no manner of use in trying to derail the train that is thundering to the eager cooperation, for they have heard the call of economy and they will go." There is one thing certain, in order that time may be saved a good system must be back of our labors. To many, the saving of money is the only important thing and almost no expenditure of labor and time is considered. How sadly true is this of many of our Latter-day Saint mothers; whereas, it is often the most foolish thing to do. It is said that Harrington Emerson, "the apostle of efficiency," has expounded twelve principles of efficiency and it would seem that most of them could successfully be used in the modern home as well as the factory. They are: 1. Ideal; 2. Common Sense; 3. Competent counsel; 4. Standardized operation; 5. Standardized conditions; 6. Standard practice; 7. Dispatching; 8. Scheduling; 9. Reliable, immediate and accurate methods; 10. Discipline; 11. Fair deal; 12. Efficiency reward. The better ideals a woman has the better homemaker she will be, and no woman can run her home, her business, successfully without knowing what she is doing and why she is doing it. The matter of having common sense will save a great many women time and energy. The kitchen is her workroom, her laboratory. A pot, a pan, is to be used. Why tuck it away in a cupboard where one must stoop down or use a stove hook to get it when wanted. Hang it where one can easily reach it. A few good utensils chosen well will be used frequently enough to keep them from getting dusty. 4. Energy Wastes. There is much written these days about motion study and standardizing practice, how can these be used 5 480 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. they are piled into a trunk to be used sometime. This is false economy. There are sales when one can buy to advantage, but to buy because an article is cheap will soon "divide a fool and his money." b. The truly economical housewife will plan in her cooking to have left overs, and to make use of these is an art that can only be learned by thought and practice. The cheaper cuts of meat are not always the most economical for one must consider the extra fuel necessary to cook them. They may be cooked in a fireless cooker or when a fire must be kept for other reasons before they are economical. It is false economy to buy a soup bone, for instance, and boil it five or six hours on a gas range when a round steak cut and soaked in cold water and then cooked fifteen or twenty minutes would give more nutritive value for less money. Space will not allow me to mention the many, many dollars that we are allowing heedlessly to slip through the kitchen sink. Think of the cream that is left on the milk pan as it comes to the dish pan. If a thin knife is run around the milk pan before the cream is removed much of the cream could be saved. Think of the carelessly baked bread that is thrown out. The nice gravy left to burn in the frying pan, this might all go into the soup kettle. Think of the many crusts and pieces of good bread that might be dried and made into crumbs to be used for croquets, escallops, etc., the soap that is wasted, and so on. From dietary studies carried on by the Department of Agriculture, at Washington, it has been estimated that waste in American families varies from almost nothing to one-fifth of the edible portion of food purchased due to careless buying and improper storage. A large part of household waste arises from moral cowardice; a fear of being stingy keeps people from saving. QUESTIONS. 1. Why is housework inefficient? 2. Do you consider it waste to feed left-overs from the table to the chickens and animals in the yard? 3. When can patching and darning be wasteful? 4. What labor-saving devices do you use that you know saves your time and energy? 5. How can you teach young people economy? 6. What is meant by motion study and standardized labor? 7. In your opinion is fancywork a waste of time? 8. What is false economy? — Have you read Excursions North The Women Low Rates to of the Northern Utah and Idaho Points Bible? by TWICE EACH MONTH DURING Elder Willard Done THE SUMMER Ask for dates and If Not, rates Why Not? D. S. Spencer, Gen'l Passenger Agent, Oregon Short Line Railroad, [Union Pacific System] The book will help you in City Ticket Office, your Theology Lessons, it Hotel Utah, Salt Lake City. will give you a greater insight and love for the Bible characters, and will also make you glad that you are a woman Z. C. M. I. and a sister to these good and glorious women who lived and School Shoes loved and suffered even as we For Boys do today. Are made for service they will keep the boys' Buy one for yourself, feet warm and dry. your mother, daughter or friend. Z. C. M. I. PRICE 75 cts. ALLOVERS are the ideal For Sale by play garment DESERET NEWS for boys and girls. Cheap, BOOK STORE serviceable. EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Genealogical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 'Utah's Most Popular Music House" English and American SAVE HALF ARCHITECTURE When Buying Your Piano By GEO. M. ALLEN We always have on hand a representative is in Mrs. Home's Art Book, stock of instruments used as demonstrators, returned from rentals, etc., practically good as new, but DEVOTEES AND THEIR AT ABOUT ½ ORIGINAL PRICES SHRINES. Send to this office or Mention this magazine and ask for official list. to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH' PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing announces the opening of its thirteenth school year on Monday, September 18, 1916. School term, 8 months — Course A Entrance fee for the course in Obstetrics, which includes nursing and invalid cooking $50.00. — Course B Entrance fee for course in Nursing, which includes invalid cooking $25.00. — Course C At intervals during the school year, lectures on Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases, Etc., will be given by eminent physicians, surgeons, and specialists. No charge. — Course D A class in Invalid Cooking will be conducted by experts no extra charge for students taking other courses. ; Instructor, DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS. For further information write to General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman, Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters —and sons—to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. If the "DAY" has been set Let me sell you the Ring Diamond Rings $20 and up One Quality Only — the Best McConAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City SPECIAL EXCURSION $85.00 to San Francisco Los Angeles and Return Sale Dates, July 24-31, inclusive Return Limit, 60 Days Stopovers allowed VISIT Lake Tahoe, San Francisco Big Trees, Santa Cruz, Del Monte, Monterey, Pacific Grove, Santa Barbara, Los Angeles California is the Playground of America A Beautiful Packet of Literature Mailed on Request For Detailed Information Call on C. L. McFAUL District Passenger Agent, Was. 6900 203 Walker Bank Bldg. SALT LAKE CITY SOUTHERN PACIFIC RELIEF SOCIETY Magazine SEPTEMBER, 1916. SPECIAL ARTICLES MOTHERS IN ISRAEL Mary Ann Stearns Pratt With Illustrations. SCHEMES AND SCHEDULES Ruth Moench Bell. BEING "GRAN." Alfred Lambourne. With Illustrations. CURRENT TOPICS James H. Anderson. Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29, Bishop's Bldg.,Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c No. 9. THE PERFECT SUGAR TWO BOOKS Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead A simplified form, with complete FOR EVERY USE instructions for properly recording this work. It is just as easy for every housewife L. D. S. Family and Individual Record to say "Utah-Idaho Sugar" as to say Arranged specially for recording just "sugar." Thousands have in a most desirable and concise form, found, by so doing, they have insured important events in the lives of the themselves against inferior grades of members of the church. imported sugar. Utah-Idaho Sugar has been the preference of eastern and These books are sold at $1.25 each western manufacturers of fine confections, cakes, candy, etc., for a number of years. The absolute purity of this sugar Deseret News Book Store is the feature that appeals strongly to 6 MAIN STREET those who cannot afford to risk their success on inferior products. Utah-Idaho Sugar should be preferred in every home. Utah-Idaho Sugar When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct ABSOLUTELY PURE Style, Excellence and Satisfaction UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. JOSEPH F. SMITH, PRESIDENT Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. THOS. R. CUTLER, Vice-Pres. and Gen'l Man. Established 1877 Phone Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY Have You Read The Women of The Bible, by Elder Willard Done If not, Why not? The book will help you in your Theology Lessons, it will give you a greater insight and love for the Bible characters, and will also make you glad that you are a woman and a sister to these good and glorious women who lived and loved and suffered even as we do today. Buy one for yourself, your mother, daughter or friend. PRICE, 75c For Sale by Deseret News Book Store The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS. SEPTEMBER, 1916. Kirtland Temple Frontispiece Absence Lucy Burnham 481 Mothers in Israel 483 Schemes and Schedules Ruth Moench Bell 490 Being "Gran" Alfred Lambourne 494 A Prince of Ur Homespun 497 Filet Crochet Yoke Isabelle W. Sears 505 The Bible Lucy May Green 507 Proper Guidance of Children Lucy Wright Snow 510 Notes from the Field Sec. Amy Brown Lyman 513 Current Topics James H. Anderson 518 Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde 521 Editorial Self Pity: 524 Guide Lessons 526 At Evening Emmeline B. Wells 539 Music My Friend: 540 ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY. Patronize those who advertise with us. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City. MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City. McConAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY—60 East South Temple. OREGON SHORT LINE RAILWAY, Salt Lake City. STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J, Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City. THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City. TAYLORS. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St., Salt Lake City. UTAH CEREAL FOOD CO. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City Utah. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE. Logan, Utah. "WOMEN OF THE BIBLE," by Willard Done. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. Thrift Means ARE WE OF ISRAEL? Freedom By GEO. REYNOLDS Many thousands of people have A NEW EDITION discovered the value of a bank account in the way it aids in attaining NOW READY health, self respect, freedom Paper Binding 25c Postpaid from worry about the present and anxiety for the future. Money Deseret Sunday School Union Book Store saved and safely and profitably employed is the best kind of insurance against adversity. 44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Mail or call with at least one dollar; start your money working for you. It will earn 4 per cent at this bank. SALT LAKE'S "The Bank with a LADY FLORIST Personality" Mrs. Emma J. Sanders Merchant's Bank Capital $250,000 278 South Main Street Member of Salt Lake Clearing House Schramm-Johnson No. 5 John Pingree, Prest. O. P. Soule, ; V. P.; Moroni Helner, V. P.;Radcliffe Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City Phone Wasatch 2815 Q. Cannon, Asst. Cashier. Salt Lake City. Utah Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. RELIEF SOCIETY DEPARTMENT HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 the purpose THE UTAH STATE NATIONAL of this Bank at all times is to render BANK helpful service and S.M.TAYLOR & Co. make the handling SALT LAKE CITY Undertakers and Embalmers UTAH of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant SUCCESSORS TO Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 Years in One Location UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK 251-257 E. First South Street Your Account is Cordially Invited Salt Lake City. Utah Efficient Service, Fair Methods, Complete Monuments JOSEPH F. SMITH. Pres. ABSENCE. It is morning, dearest husband, And from my bed I rise Upon the sleeping village near, I lift my lonely eyes. O'er the hill the sun is peeping, And all nature seems so gay Yet my heart shares not the gladness, Life is drear when you're away. It is mid-day, dearest husband. And the toilers hasten home. Each to find his happy fireside Where the loved ones hurrying come. But I linger here in sadness. O'er my lonely meal, today. And I whisper to the silence, "Life's so drear when you're away." It is evening, dearest husband. And I bow my head in prayer, Asking God to bless my dear one. And to keep him in His care. Then I lay me down to slumber And to dream of you till day. 'Tis the only ray of comfort In my life when you're away. Lucy Burnham. Kirtland, New Mexico. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. III. SEPTEMBER, 1916 No. 9. Mothers in Israel. Autobiographical Sketch of M. A. S. Winters. (Continued from August Number.) IN KIRTLAND. The first days of April had now come, the spring annual conference was near at hand, and the Saints, making great preparations, were anticipating a joyous time at the meetings, to meet and entertain. And with the 6th of April would come my fourth birthday. I could faintly remember one other birthday, but now it seemed so far away, and this one so near by that I, too, was all expectancy for the events to transpire. My mother was making me a very pretty French lawn dress that she had bought in Boston on our journey to Ohio. The spring time had now come, and I could have it to wear, and my heart was filled with pleasure for the time being. I think I watched nearly every stitch that she put in it (no sewing machines then). I mention this dress in particular as it figured in another more important event to me, not far distant from my birthday. I was in excellent health at this time, and attended all the conference meetings with my mother. There was a great time of rejoicing among the Saints, and I partook of the glorious spirit poured out upon them in great abundance. How could it be otherwise? This was the seventh anniversary of the organization of the Church. The Saints had gathered — had built a temple, a House of the Lord — and He had accepted it at their hands — and now they had met to worship Him, and to receive instructions in spirit and in truth. My mother had listened to the voice of the Good Shepherd, had obeyed the gospel — and brought me into the fold — had gathered to Zion. I believed what I heard of the gospel with all the soul of an innocent child. I had received my childhood's blessing into the Church, in the temple, under the hands of the Patriarch Joseph Smith, Sr., and I felt a new light. A new intelligence had entered my soul from that time, and right here I want to bear testimony that the power 484 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. and influence of that blessing has followed me through all the days of my life on the earth, since that time. My memory was quickened — it has helped to keep me faithful, for never in my life have I doubted the truth of the gospel, or that Joseph Smith is a true Prophet of the living God, or that he received a visit from the Father and the Son and I do know that God lives, for; He has answered my prayers many times, while yet I have been bowed before Him. No soul but myself knew of the circumstances that called forth the answer. And I do verily know the Spirit lives after the body is laid in the tomb, for I have, at two different times and at far distant periods, beheld with my open eyes two disembodied spirits and at other times, have heard the; voices of departed friends, and the things they communicated to me came true to the very letter, in proof of the truth of their communications and their continued existence after death, for they verily came to pass. I have never yet claimed to be a Latter-day Saint, but I am a "Mormon" every fiber of my being, both physical and spiritual, and I am trying to live to that end— that sometime in the great hereafter, the former name may be truthfully attached to my being, and I can bask in the fulness of its glories, according to my station and mission in my Father's Kingdom. MARY ANN STEARNS WINTERS. MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 485 But to return to my little narrative. Soon after conference, a kind friend took me in her arms and told me I was going to have a new papa, and also a little brother. The sound of these words had quite an attraction for me though I could not understand the full purport of them, but when Elder Parley P. Pratt called at our house and talked with my mother, I began to ask questions and then mother answered me quite freely, and told me we were going to New York, and then we could go from there and visit my grandparents and relations in Maine — and all this seemed very natural and right, so my mental consent was freely given. A spirit of peace filled my soul, and not one ray of jealousy or dissent entered my heart to give me sorrow or mar my peace of mind. There were some preparations to make, and this I entered into with all the interest of my years. My mother had also bought for herself a lawn dress like the one she had made for me, and now this was to be made (and would be very suitable for the occasion), and with the help of a sister was soon very satisfactorily accomplished. The marriage was to take place at the home of Brother Smith, one of the Prophet's relatives. My mother and Elder Pratt were attended by Elder John Goodson and Miss Apphia Woodman — one of the young ladies that journeyed with us to Kirtland. Accordingly, four chairs were placed in the center of the room, and I was lifted into my little high chair and sat at the side of Miss Woodman, and the ceremony was performed May 9, 1837, by Frederick G. Williams, in the presence of the family of the house, and a few other invited friends. My mother became the wife of Apostle Parley P. Pratt, and I was grafted into that family and was called by that name for a number of years. In a few days we moved to the home of Brother Pratt, and five or six weeks later started on the journey to New York. On the way we stopped at Holliston, Massachusetts, at the home of Brother Albert P. Rockwood. Here we stayed about six weeks. There were quite a number baptized into the Church, and my mother formed a friendship with Sister Rockwood and her sister Elizabeth Haven, that lasted as long as they all lived. I became acquainted with Sister Rockwood's little daughters Elizabeth and Ellen and little son Albert, who was about my own age. We had many joyous hours of happy play in their little playhouses that their kind father had built for them and their dear mother had furnished so abundantly. These were my second friends in the gospel, but alas, I never saw but one of them afterwards, for when we met the family a few years later at Quincy, Illinois, Elizabeth and Albert had died, and only Ellen was left to comfort the hearts of her parents —she afterwards became the wife of President Brigham Young, in Nauvoo, and died after coming to Utah when quite a young woman, leaving no children. We continued our 486 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. journey, and in due time arrived in New York City and stopped at the house of a Mrs. Fordham, a widow, but not a "Mormon." Here Brother Pratt began writing the Voice of Warning, and Brother Elijah Fordham, brother-in-law of the lady where we lived, and who had joined the Church some time before, came to help him in his work. Brother Pratt would write a few pages, read it aloud, then Brother Fordham would copy it and prepare it for the press. During these times I would have to sit down and keep very still, and I heard the whole of that book read before it ever was printed. At other times I must not make a noise to disturb them, but I could walk around and mother would entertain me with patchwork, cutting papers, drawing threads in pieces of cloth, and also now, I could have a precious doll, of some kind, but then I could not talk to it, and my friends and family will all realize what a privation this must have been to me, for naturally my tongue was very seldom still in my waking hours. Mother and I got along very well together — we were so used to each other that a little quiet sign language answered in most cases, and between times mother instructed me in what I should do, and I understood they were writing a book about the gospel — and I did try my very best to be a good little girl and do just what was required of me, and here I must say that this strict training was a help to me, in self-control, in after years. Board was quite expensive, and after a few weeks our folks decided to try light housekeeping. The one large room was all they could afford to hire, but my mother being an orderly, natural housekeeper, and not afraid of work, the room was always neat and presentable at the proper hours to be so, the large closet being a great help to that end in the matter. Many influential people called to talk with Brother Pratt, and as they were introduced to mother they were also told that "this was the little daughter." I remember the Rev. Dr. Cadmus who tried to be very sociable with me, but I shrank from him with the idea in my heart that they that were not for us, were against us. The New York Sun came constantly to our door, and I learned to spell the words, and the editor called to talk with Brother Pratt. I thought he must be a very great man if he could make a newspaper, but I also thought that Brother Pratt knew a great deal more than he did, though I could not tell just why it was so, not then realizing what the gospel light could bring to people. Some ten or twelve had joined the Church, and week-day prayer meetings were held in this home room. The converts and Saints rejoiced together exceedingly in that they had found the true gospel of Jesus Christ and learned the plan of salvation. At the close of the meetings the sisters would gather round my mother and embrace her as though she were a long absent friend or relative, and my mother rejoiced in their sisterly love as only one could do — who was a stranger in a strange city — and the friendships there begun are of eternal duration. They have lasted through time and will continue throughout eternity. I would like especially to mention the names of Sisters Rogers, Spencer and Delong — the two former coming to Utah where their acquaintance and friendship with mother continued through long years of hardships, sorrow and privations. When the good sisters of the meetings discovered that mother was keeping house, they vied with each other in bringing many nice dainties to add to the comfort of our living, and when one dear sister who had quite a large family, and who was in rather straitened circumstances at that time, brought a very beautiful offering, mother remonstrated and told her that she needed it for her own family's comfort — when the sister replied with tears in her eyes, "Would you deprive me of the privilege the other sisters enjoy in bringing their offerings and sharing in their pleasure in so doing?" She was a noble-spirited woman, and has posterity here in Utah, bearing honored names and that are worthy representatives of her faithfulness and her name will be mentioned hereafter in this narrative. And there are two of the brethren's names of these meetings that I will also record here, as they were friends indeed, in times of MARY ANN STEARNS PRATT. MARY ANN STEARNS WINTERS. 488 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. need — Brother David W. Rogers and Brother Elijah Fordham. And I ever remembered the good spirit of those meetings, and the powerful testimonies borne by those faithful Saints. At one of these times I first experienced the power of healing. I awoke in the night, in terrible pain, so great that I thought I could not live. Mother took me in her arms, and Brother Pratt laid his hands upon my head and blessed me — and I was instantly healed and as free from pain or distress as I ever was in my life. This occurred the night a special prayer meeting had been held at our home room — an account of which can be read in Parley P. Pratt's Autobiography, page 185 — and this was the beginning of the fulfilment of one of the prophecies made that night, "that the sick should be healed." And when I was made whole so suddenly, I thought, "Oh, they will never know how sick I was and how I suffered." Christmas of this year came in due time, and with it a little incident that for a number of years was a very great puzzle to my little mind. A little girl lived with her parents on the opposite side of the house from us, but our mothers had kept us so close in that we scarcely had seen each other or become at all acquainted. That we were "Mormons" I think had something to do in the case. But on this Christmas day we happened to meet in the hall. Her little heart seemed overflowing with joy and happiness, and she ran up to me exclaiming, "What did Santa Claus bring you?" As that was someone that I had never heard of I could only answer, "Nothing." "Didn't you hang up your stocking?" came next. My answer was, "What do you hang up your stocking for?" Then our tongues seemed to be loosed, and questions and explanations flowed so fast that it was hard to tell which came first, but I soon learned that all the children that hung up their stockings had them filled with nice presents. Hers had been so full that there was hardly room for the pretty little doll to stand in the top — and other toys placed around on the outside. Now what puzzled me, and I may say tried me very severely, was that this great and good and bounteous giver, Santa Claus, would come to a house where two little girls about the same age and nearly the same size both lived, and give so much to one and pass the other by without even a call. I compared myself with her in every particular and I could not see where she had the advantage in any way, or any greater claim on his favor than I had. She was happy and joyous and gratified, and wouldn't I have been also under like circumstances? Tears of disappointment were forcing their way in spite of all I could do, when the door opened and her young uncle came joyously in, caught her in his arms, and carried her playfully away to see what Santa Claus had brought her that Christmas day. At the beginning of the new year the times began to change — the people MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 489 were beginning to see the light of the gospel and many more were baptized. The Tammany Hall was hired and large gatherings of people came out to hear, and the first principles of the gospel were proclaimed with great power and I heard them repeated so often that I could frequently tell what was coming next in the discourses. A number of marriages of the Saints were performed in these public meetings — the first one that I remember was Brother Addison Everett and his good wife, Sister Orpha M., who ever remained faithful in the gospel of Jesus Christ and ere they; departed this life, they performed the work for many thousands of their kindred dead in the St. George Temple. The next couple were not so fortunate, for they soon drifted away from the Church and were lost sight of altogether. March was drawing to a close and my folks were preparing to move to Missouri, a few of the Saints were going with them to the new gathering place and all was bustle and preparation. By invitation we went to the home of Brother and Sister Alexander Mills to stay until we started for our journey, and it was at their house that I passed my fifth birthday, April 6, 1838, and I remember getting many love-pats, with one to grow on, on that occasion. They had a very talkative Poll parrot — she would say, "Poor Poll-Polly wants a cracker — Ann-Polly wants a cracker," but when I would go near her she would scold me hard — she did not like children, and I was afraid to be left in the room alone with her. But she liked Sister Ann who was one of the family, and would talk to her whenever she could see her. A few days before we left, a nice wedding party of the Saints assembled at the home of Sister Smith — and dear Sister Ann became the wife of Brother Azariah Tuttle, and I was the first to receive the greeting kiss from them and wish them much joy. At the end of their long and faithful lives they went to their rest in the city of Manti, Utah. In a few days we started on our westward journey, and in due time arrived at Far West, Missouri. We took up our residence in an empty log cabin a mile or two out from town, and Brother Pratt began preparations to build on a piece of land more than a mile distant from where we lived. THE MUSIC OF LIFE. Always B sharp. Never B flat. Ever B natural. Schemes and Schedules. By Ruth Moench Bell. "It's either the back door, the front door, or the telephone," Mrs. Jones sighed as she laid her tatting down for the seventh time within an hour. "I am glad my ambition runs to fancy work and housekeeping. I wonder how the other women accomplish anything with all the interruptions we have. I think I shall bring the subject up at Relief Society today. There ought to be some way to get along without upsetting each other's plans." "It has been the biggest block in my way," Mrs. Priest exclaimed, after Relief Society, when the subject was broached, "and I have not found a way to move it yet. I don't mind lending sugar and lemon extract and quilting frames. And I like to have my friends call me up over the telephone and come and see me if—" "Yes, if —" Mrs. Jones prompted. "If they would choose the right times," Mrs. Priest admitted reluctantly. "I never get deep in my studies that I am not interrupted several times." "I think the person was right who called this the age of interruption," Mrs. Cheevers laughed. "Why not keep office hours," Mrs. Lochart suggested. "The very thing," Mrs. Jones agreed heartily. "That is the solution. Why shouldn't women as well as men have office hours?" "How could we let our friends know without hurting their feelings?" Mrs. Lochart interposed. "I haven't told a soul what I was trying to do. I was so afraid they would laugh at the idea of a woman of fifty years trying to learn something to carry with her to the other side." "It seems to me we are all making some use of our knowledge here," Mrs. Jones exclaimed defensively. "Sewing meetings and Relief Society meetings are getting so interesting I can scarcely wait for the next. I believe there is not a single woman in town who has not followed our example and taken up the study of something that interests her instead of merely reading aimlessly, and existing without definite, daily purpose." "I believe you are right," Mrs. Cheevers agreed. "Why even Grandma Brant is getting to be a regular Literary Digest and Review of Reviews, and daily newspaper all in one." "She is precisely the one I had in mind," Mrs. Jones cried with delight. "Whenever she begins to tell of the wonderful: SCHEMES AND SCHEDULES. 491 things that are going on today and Mrs. Lochart follows with 'that reminds me' of something that happened ages ago and that reminds Harriet of the struggles and triumphs of an artist that lived in those days, and that reminds Betty of a musician that also lived then — why I know the chain of knowledge has begun and we are going to have an interesting time." "And it is all a scheme on our part to tell what we have learned, so we can remember it better," Mrs. Cheevers laughed. "Besides, Betty Morgan is doing more than that for the same purpose. May I tell?" "If you do, I'll tell on you," Mrs. Morgan challenged gaily. "The secret is postponed," Mrs. Cheevers subsided. "Now let us get back to this office hour plan." 'I've been trying something of the sort," Mrs. Morgan admitted modestly. "The only drawback to the success of the scheme is that nobody knows when my office hours are, so they often interrupt me instead of coming when I really want them." "Then you really do crave our company sometimes," Mrs. Jones begged humorously. "Every evening from four to half-past five I positively yearn for you," Mrs. Morgan exclaimed dramatically. "And if you will stay and have a glass of milk or buttermilk and a sandwich with me, or go for a walk with me to enjoy the sunset, or have a game or two, I shall be overwhelmed with gratitude." "Received with enthusiastic cheers," Mrs. Jones declaimed in her new role of comedian. "I think we have all been rather fearful of calling on each other lest we might interrupt plans, since we have been trying to shape our lives to accomplish more. Now tell us your plan so we can help instead of hinder you." There was a small blackboard in the room and Mrs. Morgan seized a piece of chalk and wrote on the board DAILY SCHEDULE. 7 o'clock, arise and take breathing exercises. 8:30, breakfast. "Please, Teacher," Mrs. Priest interrupted jokingly, "how can you wait till 8:30 for breakfast?" "By drinking three glasses of water half an hour apart so as to rinse my stomach and system while the stomach is empty. I never have the water too cold, and I try to take the last about half an hour before breakfast, so it has left my stomach before I put food in. Drinking water between meals this way, walking daily, regardless of the weather, and taking breathing exercises, have done more for my health than anything I ever tried. And health I must have, if I am to do anything but mope around." 492 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The women applauded merrily and Mrs. Morgan continued on the board. 9 to 10, out-of-door work, gardening, shopping or walking. 10 to 12, study. 12 to 1:30, make the bed, wash dishes, brush up while preparing dinner, 1:30 to 2:30, dinner and magazines. 2:30 to 4, write in my journal what I have learned, and my observations and impressions concerning it. Mrs. Morgan turned from the board and smiled, before she added, "Now here is where my friends come in." "Or should come in," Mrs. Jones corrected. "I imagine we used to come in almost any time but then." "How about evenings?" Mrs. Lochart enquired. "I find it doesn't pay to study of evenings," Mrs. Morgan admitted, "my brain goes on all night if I do. Hence from eight to ten I reserve for quiet Bible readings, meditations, and light needle work, crocheting, or making dainty aprons and neckwear, making repairs on my clothes, bathing, manicuring my nails and brushing my hair." "How about the time from seven to eight," Mrs. Cheevers asked with apparent innocence. "I'll confess if Harriet will," Mrs. Morgan laughed. Mrs. Cheevers nodded willingness and Mrs. Morgan went on hesitatingly. "You know, I'm not half as young as I used to be. And when I tried to study I found my brain was just like a sieve. It let every thing through. At first I tried, while I was about my work, to repeat to myself what I had learned. That helped. Then I tried keeping a journal and writing down all I could recall. Afterwards I would go over the work again to see what I had left out. That helped, also, because I tried to express myself on paper as clearly and correctly as possible." Mrs. Morgan suddenly broke off before making her confession, and Mrs. Cheevers took up the subject, seeing her friend was too modest to tell. "And now she has invented a story hour," Mrs. Cheevers added. "Now she is pouring into the eager ears of the neighbors' children the stories of the lives and works of great musicians. In short, she is using them to help her to remember just as the rest of us are scheming to use the Relief Society for the same purpose." "If the children enjoy it as much as the Relief Society does, no apology is necessary," Mrs. Jones said with enthusiasm. "If there is any credit due me," Mrs. Morgan laughed, "it is due Harriet Cheevers as well. She is making her neighbors' children acquainted with artists in the same way." SCHEMES AND SCHEDULES. 493 "Betty Morgan taught me the trick," Mrs. Cheevers declared. "I happened in one time when those youngsters were listening to an account of how Mozart, or was it Beethoven? slipped out of bed in the hush of night to try his new violin in the attic. Now the busy mothers are so delighted to have the story hour filled with such stimulating, inspiring biographies, to say nothing of the acquaintance with good music, for Betty plays for them after telling them about the music and the man who composed it, so now some of them insist on sending her a dollar a month to help her to buy books and music." They all gazed proudly at Betty Morgan whose scheme and schedule had worked so well. "I received six dollars last month," Mrs. Morgan proclaimed gratefully, "enough to buy Wagner's wonderful autobiography. Wasn't it good of them?" "Good of them," Mrs. Lochart echoed, "good of them. If some one had taken me when I was a child and made me acquainted with the names and lives and struggles and triumphs of the great artists, writers and musicians, I would have been the happiest girl in the world. The most thrilling thing I heard when I was a child, I can remember yet, and I believe it is responsible for my thirst for history. I still thrill at the memory of my grandfather's recital of historic events and particularly of his dramatic repetition of Wellington's cry: 'Blucher or sunset.' I learned to read just to be able, some day, to read all about it." "Maybe you would be interested in a game we have worked out," Mrs. Morgan suggested. "We got the idea from the game of authors. We took cardboard and had it cut into cards. Then we pasted pictures of all the artists and musicians we could get, and underneath printed the name of the person and the principal works." "I don't understand," Mrs. Jones questioned, "how do you play this game?" "Just like you do the game of authors which you can buy at any bookstore. We sometimes play this game with the children instead of telling them stories. It helps to get them familiar with the names and works of the men and women of whom we have been telling them." "I think you may expect about three of us over to your house tomorrow afternoon, at four, to play this new game," Mrs. Jones announced. "I am as eager as the children for more knowledge. 'The glory of God is intelligence,' and I want all I can get." "And the best of it is we shall feel welcome," Mrs. Lochart added. "Suppose we all save the same hours for friendly intercourse." "Agreed," they cried with one voice. Being "Gran" Being "Gran" is not entirely that walking of a smooth, easy pathway which the uninitiated imagine it to be. Those diverse-minded little creatures in which one owns a one-quarter interest, are not unqualified blessings. That word Grand prefixed to pa and which childish lips abbreviate to "Gran," what a difference it makes "Gran," no matter how much he may be loved, is not one like pa to be obeyed. O no!"Gran" is a sort of confidential ally and slave. His one-quarter ownership in the little beings give him a full share in the love and anxiety of their welfare without the same full share in the directorship, as it were. Being "Gran," to make a success of the position, requires the exercise of considerable diplomacy. Those who, out of ignorance of the difficulties of the position, think that it is an easy one, let them put it to the proof Who are such intuitive knowers of character as children? Who so quickly seize upon the strategic value of a situation? They will find out the weak spots. They know the helplessness of "Gran." Children know that "Gran" must be on their side; there is no alternative for him. He must be on their side either to retain their love— or mamma's. Little tyrants! They are not going to lose their point of advantage. When it comes to a count, they number "Gran" as theirs. "Gran" is an assessment in time of need. Make no mistake, "Gran" with the children is as clay in the hands of the potter. "Gran," when he is "Gran" to several distinct groups of blessings, soon learns some facts. Often he walks on very thin ice, or his pathway lies along the edge of dangerous precipices. All former experiences fail, he is compelled to adopt a new line of tactics. If he would be a popular "Gran" and give satisfaction to all concerned, he must forget past methods which proved a success in his own home-circle. He must adapt himself to the new conditions. In these home-circles, one removed, he is not the one whose word is law, but the onlooker, the one whose designs, if he has designs, must be hidden beneath his words of praise. The son, the daughter, cannot accept an adverse criticism upon the! BEING "GRAN." 495 darling from "Gran." If the aforesaid "Gran" wishes to wound to the utmost a heart, let him speak adversely of a child of his child. Least of all can be borne a criticism put in the manner of comparison. "Gran" must not compare one darling with another darling, to which poor "Gran" is "Gran." That would be the Alpha and Omega, and all that lies between, of offense. "Gran" must individualize each child. And woe be unto him if he see not all the merits and see the faults What is "Gran" for, if not to be enraptured? "Gran" must be in a constant state of surprise, the discoverer of ever new wonders. For each successive miracle which comes to make a claim, he must use all the words of superlative, exhaust the adjectives at his command. If not for this, then of what use is "Gran"? And, wonder!that really is exactly what "Gran" does. Yet then his troubles do not end. He can divide himself in thought and sympathy he can see to it that his; attentions are equally divided, his caresses almost numbered but he can-; not divide the corporal being, he cannot be in two places at one and the same time. And there is a danger. To what subterfuge he must resort Really! there are critical moments, when he must decide where it is right for him to be. Pity then the troubles of "Gran," nor think his part in life so easy. "Gran" might be considered as a safety-valve for the ebullition of the grandchild. "Gran" might be never so mind-weary, yet he must listen, smiling, to the childish prattle, or the youthful trouble. The one would talk of her dolly, another would have him listen to the music lesson which she has learned, and yet another would have him watch and comment upon the 496 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. skill with which a puzzle-picture is put together. One would have him listen to the recitation of a piece which will be given at the closing exercises of school, while another would have him give attention to the new record which has been bought for the graphaphone. And be he body-weary, yet he must be ready on the instant for a game of Ring-around the Rosie, or he must be Gulliver among the Lilliputians. And so it goes. Each and all are clamorous, at one and the same minute, for recognition of these individual and immediate claims. — But the compensation! "Gran" gives his wonderment yet; he is in turn, a wonder. How delightful to be such a hero! How soothing to vanity to be so implicitly believed, to be the center of so much faith! There is a sort of second childhood in being a "Gran." If one cannot now imagine himself the hero as he did in those imaginative hours of the far-away youth, why, then, he can be the hero to that circle of wondering hearers. How filled with trust, with admiration, the innocent eyes! How brave was "Gran" ! He is the accepted hero as the slayer of wolves and tigers, of bears and lions, as the defeater of ogres and giants. He can overcome monsters of every kind. Yes, "Gran" is the one who can tell how to get out of enchanted woods, to obtain the sacks of gold and jewels in robbers' caves, to slay the dragons which guard hidden treasure, and the crocodiles on the shores of desert islands. "Gran" is the last court of appeals. "Gran" said so. What could be more conclusive than that? Thank Heaven that one can be a "Gran." Life would be incomplete without those gifts. I mean those gifts which come to our love of earlier years. Or, to express another thought, that galaxy of stars which makes beautiful the darkening skies of life. Those gifts, those clustered stars are the links which bind one to the golden dreams of the past; the wondrous dreams of the future. Thank Heaven for those gifts of gifts which make one answer to the name of "Gran." Alfred Lambourne. A Prince of Ur. Homespun. "Nay Zillah," whimpered the wench, "'tis not my wish to bawl out all I see or hear. But doth not this approaching sacrifice look like the Prince Abram?" Zillah knew who it was, and her whole frame shook with violent emotion, as she watched him pace slowly by her between the ranks of soldiers who surrounded Abram and his attendant priest with all possible security. The heart of a woman is a curious thing. Zillah had seen her husband's three gracious virgin daughters given over to be burnt upon the altar she had even; watched with dry eyes the carrying of her own child to that awful human sacrificial pyre, and had lured Iscah to her final ruin. But now, the sight of her young master, he who had taught her in her pliant youth to worship the one only God of Heaven and earth, he whom in her secret heart she had adored and would have sold herself a thousand times over to the devil for, just to be his slave for one night — this was more than she could bear She had suspected this from all that had taken place in her master's home that day. She herself, with wicked recklessness had helped to bring this about. Yet now, to see her brave and splendid master ascending to disgraceful death — this struck the vile woman in her one vulnerable spot "Come, wench, come," cried Mardan. Zillah shuddered. She darted to the stairs to fly below. "Ha, ha, my black queen, thou hast lost thy courage, let me revive thee," the mocking voice of Mardan whispered in her ear, as that gallant stepped from the official procession who were accompanying the soldiers to the temple altar above them. "Come with me! The goddess who would stand before the altar of Ishtar must have an alabaster heart and not turn faint before a simple thing like this. The gods demand the sacrifice. The head of the offspring for the head of the man he shall give. Would you have the life of Terah laid upon Elkanah's altar?" Zillah turned her blazing eyes upon the slight form of her master's foster-son, and as she looked long into his fierce, yet cowardly eyes she felt the sinister spell which he sought to cast upon her enraged and seething soul. "Come thou with me," she shrilled in Mardan's ear above the sound of the tinkling cymbals and the crashing trumpets, "come with me, I would have speech with you. See," she held up her three fingers, twisted them curiously as she raised her arms high above her head. The sign was the sign of death or life. Mardan 498 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. followed her without question. He had stepped upon an asp, he must draw its fangs cunningly. "Where shall I go, my black priestess of Ishtar? Where shall we go?" But even as he spoke Zillah had pinioned her sinewy arms around him and he, ashamed to show cowardice in the very face of the assembled dignity of the temple courts, felt his feet fairly dragged from under him as she sped in and out of the throngs under the moonlight madness and the earth and the sky seemed to reel before the man in her vice-like grip. "Where are you dragging me to, you fiend of hell?" he could scarcely speak for her grip was close about his throat as her arms twined ever close and closer about his strangling throat. "Where? Where are we going? Thou perfumed son of a wicked sire thou ingrate, apostate, corrupted, rotting son of an apostate father? Where are we going? Where should we go, but to the realms of Silver Light, where thou has taught me on thy wicked knees to worship black cats and vermin, while thy vile body was shut in my embraces. Oh, I shall enjoy this last fond flight with thee — for I have much to thank thee for. Thou hast taught me to cast my offspring on the altar of Elkanah, thou hast fed the flames of hell within me which this day burned into the very vitals of my one-time husband and killed him thou hast bound his innocent daughters on the funeral pyre of Elkanah's altars! — — — — Now thou nay, struggle not it is thou and no other — thou hast flung the noose that will fasten the neck of the one glorious god-man, Prince Abram, to the altar to drop under the knife of Nimrod, the bloody king and apostate who with thy help hast let loose all the hell-spawn of the lower courts of Bel We —we go— ! go The choking man sought to cry out to the passers-by that he was being murdered, but the infuriated and crazed woman had him so closely pinioned that he could only gurgle and sputter his fierce emotions into the silence of the hard bosom whereon she had forcibly pillowed his reluctant head as she dragged him towards the far end of the terrace, away from the lights and glitter and the vast moving multitudes. Those who saw them, thought it only some bestial play, and paid no attention to the maniacal laughter of the woman as she wrenched and dragged and flung herself and her victim to the edge of that terraced Ziggurat. "Ha, thou wouldst live to fester this earth with thy vile and rotting carcass, whereon even the birds of prey would sicken, for there is no corruption known to man but has its seeds within thy vile body. Thou and I are of kin, thou king's son, for we are one in vileness and in crime. Thou hast no courage of thine own, but canst rouse the wicked daring of others with thy poisoned lies and inventions. But now —but now— to the realms of the black death — to the deepest — —we two hell will go A heaving shriek that was torn from his throat in deadly agony as Mardan's body fell in her arms from the terrace was all that betrayed the last crime of that blackened soul and body of Zillah and her companion in crime, Mardan. Death to her was far sweeter than life — with Abram gone — Abram who had ever despised such as she and who was now in mortal danger through this curse in her arms — she but laughed in fierce glee as she plunged outward with a last powerful sweep of her steely arms to make sure that no projection should prevent them both from the doom she courted with fierce Cushite courage. No cry, no sound from her grim lips passed into the silence of the night. Fiercely she had lived, fiercely she had died. "Who shrieked?" asked the courtesan who had plucked the youth to her bosom for his impudence. "Only a black wench with some white-robed priest ready for the realms of Silver Light." "Why did they not wait and give themselves to the sacrificial altar?" queried the woman. But the youth only shrugged his shoulders and gave up the riddle. "On the high places the son is burnt." The light winds had brought up a fleecy bank of clouds but; their trailing robes only lingered over the eastern horizon, and as yet had not risen to check the heavenly march of Ishtar, Goddess of the Night. There was a curious shuddering stillness in the brilliant sky that smote upon every heart. It was as if Mother Nature were about to give birth to some tremendous inner miracle. Lot watched his kinsman Abram go by him silently, none of them joining in the rituals, but each shepherd chieftain keeping close eye on Lot as he wandered on up and up idly as if in search of new sensations, —keeping always back to the western end of the platforms. The chanting of the priests, the tinkling of the cymbals, grew louder and more insistent as the procession reached the upper platform. The king sat upon Elkanah's golden throne. Nimrod's tense body was rigid and expectant for this last triumph of his long and successful reign. He had sought to bring death to the Prince of Ur, the scholar, the high priest after the order of the ancients, Abram, friend of God and friend of Pharaoh — this man he had sought to destroy for all the years of his life but each; time he had been frustrated. Now, Abram was to choose he — could enter the priesthood of Elkanah this night by officiating at the altar of human sacrifice, or, upon refusal, Nimrod would, himself, cut out his heart upon the iron altar preparatory to thrusting him into the fiery furnace. Nimrod clenched his brawny hands and his muscles like great whip-cords strained with the exultant thought that now, this very night, he, himself should bind his enemy upon the iron altar, would slay him with the sword of the holy priesthood of Elkanah, and then, into the flames should he be cast as a propitiation to the fire-god whom Abram had despised and denounced. The lust of it was strong upon the wicked ruler, and his eyes shone in expectant refusal to hear the cries of Terah or the possible appeals and promises of his victims. "The head of the offspring, for the head of the father he shall give," sang the priests, and Nimrod ground his teeth in savage pleasure as he saw the victim approaching his throne and the altar beside it. The prince stood before him at last, gracious in the majesty of his personal comeliness and in the calm dignity of an unruffled faith which looked out from the piercing brown eyes now bent upon the soldiers and the priests. Abram finally turned his gaze upon the apostate king, but he spake not. "Bring the high priestess of Ishtar, and her train," cried the king who thus delayed the sacrifice to prolong the torture of his enemy and to give good evidence to the assembled priests of Ur, many of whom adored this mystic Prince of Ur, full proof of Abram's treason to Elkanah, to Izdubar, to Shagreel, to Ishtar, to himself, the king of all Babylon, and to the whole religious worship of the Babylonian monarchy. The harps and cymbals struck their most sensuous notes and the voices of the singers poured riotous melody as the train of the new priestess of Ishtar emerged from the distant throng and swept along the alabaster paved cloisters. Proudly she led her swaying, excited votaries to the spot where Abram stood, herself unmoved and cold. Her face was delicately chiselled, and her loveliness would have melted a far sterner soul than Abram's, were he lacking in that divine virtue of continence which is achieved by man only with the knowledge and worship of the God of heaven. Her outer sash was fringed and flounced with gorgeous shades of red and blue stuffs, but as she slowly swung and bent her supple form, the folds unwound and betrayed one long seductive length of delicate, white covering which gradually swirled round her arms, leaving her body clothed only in the filmy, single under-garment worn by the priestess of Ishtar. It was Iscah! — Crowned queen, priestess, she had reached the barren summit of her ambitions. Behind and about her swirled and circled other lovely maidens, some tall and with the grace of the stately date-palm, others dainty as a river-lily nodding on its stem. But all sought A PRINCE OF UR. 501 to attract prince Abram with dusky, alluring eyes as they plied their sultry-sweet allurements. Yet Abram stood cold and unmoved before them. Nimrod watched the long dance and grunted angrily at its failure to move its victim. "Enough," he cried at last, stung by Abram's haughty silence. "Bring Abram's father's gods, and set them down before him. Come hither Iscah, sit beside me, my queen The attendants marched gravely up, and one by one they placed the twelve ugly gods before the king, designed by Azziama, and fashioned in the workshops of Terah, all of which had been placed by Terah himself in this temple of Elkanah as his own votive offering to the newly finished Ziggurat. "Worship the gods of your father, Abram," cried the king derisively. But Abram stood coldly before him. The king tore his garments as he twisted angrily on his golden throne. "Thou, even thou, dost pretend to the friendship of Pharaoh. But know thou, O rebellious son of a rebellious house, that I am the Egyptian vicegerent, nay the very Pharaoh in mine own person for it is I that was blessed by our father Ham, and this son of a daughter of Egyptus is but a pretender to the ancient throne of Ham. It is mine own right, for I am the Pharaoh, the god and son of Ham, the Pharaoh. Take thou the sacrificial knife in thy hands, high priest Abram. Take it, I say O! The prince looked Nimrod calmly in the eye and with a lightning wrist-movement seized the knife from the hand of the king and flung it far out upon the outer pavement of the Shrine. Nimrod was furious. He motioned to his soldiers to seize Abram and to bind him where he stood. Not a soldier or priest would move. The fear of death beat in the pulses of every priest there. "Wilt thou worship me? Wilt thou pay court to Pharaoh, to Elkanah, to Libnah, and to Izdubar?" Abram looked calmly away from the long iron torture frame on which he was to be securely pinioned, but he said nothing in his own behalf. "If thou wilt not worship me, nor the gods of thine father Terah, then wilt thou worship fire?" The crowd of priests and priestesses held their breath to hear the reply of the victim. For the first time, Abram spoke: "Why not worship water which puts out fire?' said he scornfully. "Well then," quoth the king, "worship water." "Why not worship the clouds which hold the water?' asked Abram again "Very well, worship the clouds as well." "But why not worship rather the wind which blows the clouds away?" "Well, worship the wind," angrily shouted Nimrod. "Why not rather worship God who can resist the wind?" Enraged beyond all pretense of patience or judgment, Nimrod arose to his full height, and with the voice of an enraged animal, he bellowed "By virtue of the ancient priesthood which I hold through Ham and Noah and clothed in the sacred garments thereof, I call upon all the gods of earth, fire, water and clouds to come to my aid. Fire is my god, and thou shalt know his power." With a rush, Abram was seized by a crowd of desperate priests, his raiment was stripped from him, he was bound upon the iron altar, and above him stood Nimrod with the glittering sacrificial knife poised high in air. As Nimrod's hand flew upward it was struck from behind with a darting ball of fire and the white-robed priest nearest him fell to the golden pavement, his head crushed with the stroke of another dancing ball of fire. Instantly the temple court was filled with shouts of confusion and the screams of women. Above and beneath it all there suddenly rumbled and roared from the very bowels of the earth a hideous, sickening sound — it was an earthquake. Fire belched out under the very altar. Abram's bonds were suddenly loosed and he stood upright and unafraid. The massive pillars of the temple, the brazen altars, the great golden images reeled and tumbled. The ringing tones of Abram's call urged the shepherd soldiers on the terraces below to gather their forces and flee to safety. The hoarse shouts, groans and curses of Nimrod's dying and wounded forces were pierced by the shrill cries of women and little children. A woman's death scream added to the furious confusion. "Abram my kinsman, Abram!" It was the blackened and bleeding Iscah pinioned beneath the mangled, writhing bulk of Nimrod's tortured body. Abram looked back at the unhappy wretch as he called — "May God forgive thee O princess — : And then With the frightful tremblings of birth-travail the earth rocked upon her axis. With the swirr of a thousand wings the winds and the waters of heaven swept down upon that mighty concourse. The elements shrieked and bellowed, the waters of heaven tore their way through the cloisters and into the temple precincts. The lightning flung down pillars or set fire, with running globes, to wood and costly hangings, again and again. The earth trembled, the very bowels of the earth were shaken with tumultuous wrath. 503 The priests scrambled and fought for the stairs, to rush below to safety. The delicately clad women flung themselves madly on the rocking alabaster pavements, or dashed wildly to and fro, screaming with despair. The rocking walls of the Ziggurat and its supporting terraces fell stumblingly or swiftly on soldiers and terror-stricken worshipers alike. Only one spot was free from all this tortured motion. Where Abram trod the earth was firm and unmoved. Like his own faith it swayed not nor did it fall. While the earth was reeling to and fro like a drunken man, the mingled shrieks and groans from a thousand dying throats, the howls of the tempest and blasts of the fierce tropic winds — pounding in his ears in the midst of all these combined forces, which the frantic Nimrod had invoked in his despair, the soul of Abram was caught up in spirit. He beheld a vision of the Almighty and the angel of His presence stood beside him and His voice was like the voice of a celestial trumpet as He cried "Abraham, Abraham, behold thy name is no longer Abram, but Abraham. I have heard thee and have come down to deliver thee, and to take thee away from thy father's house and from all thy kinsfolk, into a promised land and this because they turned; their hearts away from me to worship the god of Elkanah, and the god of Libnah, and the god of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Thou shalt be a pilgrim and a wanderer. have come down to visit thine enemies and to destroy him who hath lifted up his hand against thee, Abraham, my son, Abraham, to take away thy life. I will take thee, to put upon thee my name, even the priesthood of thy father's father and my power shall be over thee as it was with Noah, so shall it be with thee that through thy ministry my name shall be known in the earth forever, for I am thy God —!" The vision closed, but Abraham rechristened in all the heaving elements of fire, water and of the tumults of earth's most deadly forces, stood quite still upon the place of roaring death, calm in the midst of the terrors by which he was surrounded. Up from the upper terrace tottered a soldier, into the temple courts, his abaya fluttering wildly in the fierce tempest, his face beaten with the driving rains. It was Lot. Behind him came the Damascene merchant, followed by a mass of shepherd soldiers who climbed with desperate energy the rocking, tumbling stairs crowded with the dead and dying. Lot reached Abram's side. The white translucent pavements were crumbling with the swirr of the earth-throes, but Abram stood unafraid. He at once focused Lot's confused soldiers and with guarded steps led the way downward for his friends and followers. "Where is my princess Sarai?" cried Abram as they reached the temple gates. 504 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Terah awaits with all our trains of goods and families fifty furlongs down the river's bank. Pray thee to our God that this furious storm and earth-quaking hath not caught up with them." Abram, followed by Lot and Eleazar, at last gained the deserted fields beyond the wildly struggling multitudes about the terraced temple hill, and looked about him in the glare of the soldiers' torches, saying "This night I turn forever from the land of the home of my father, and my father's father. The voice of the Lord hath spoken and my feet shall never press these unhallowed shores of the Euphrates again. I am a pilgrim and a stranger in the earth—" "We, too, shall share thine every pilgrimage —" thus Lot and Eleazar. The distant shouts and moans in the Ziggurat grounds mingled grimly with the low growls of thunderous peals, when the little party fled unchallenged through the chief gate, now broken and cast down, and turned their faces in the dense darkness toward the encampment in the palm groves by the river banks. (to be concluded) MUSIC. An interesting feature of the Jordan Stake Relief Society Conference held on May 22 at Sandy was the excellent musical selections furnished by a boys' orchestra who played selections from "Il Trovatore," and other popular numbers. A girls' chorus sang "Jesus My Savior." Two soprano solos were rendered by Mrs. Archie Crapo and Miss Pearson. . These with some splendid congregational singing, and the interesting reports given by stake and local officers, and the timely and instructive remarks made by the visiting sisters, made an occasion long to be remembered by all who were present. Filet Crochet Yoke. Isabelle W. Sears. Stitches used: Chain (ch) catch cotton with hook, making loop, draw cotton through this loop which makes the first stitch. Repeat. Draw through as many loops as wanted each loop is termed a chain stitch. Slip stitch (sl. St.), put hook through the work, thread over the hook, draw it through the stitch on hook. Single crochet (s. c), having stitch on hook, put hook through work, draw thread through making two stitches on hook, thread over hook and draw through both stitches. Treble crochet (t. c), having stitch on hook, put thread over hook, put hook through work and draw thread through, making three stitches on hook, put thread over hook, draw through two stitches, put thread over hook and draw off the two remaining stitches. Long treble crochet (l. t. c), like t. c. except the thread is thrown over the hook twice before inserting in work. The stitches are worked off two at a time as in t. c. Picot (p.). A picot is made by making four or five chain, going back and drawing thread through first ch. with sl. st. Begin the front edge with 23 spaces and follow pattern, making the side in pattern until you have 83 rows, then start and make the other side the same as first until you have the 83 rows, then work back and forth following pattern. Outside edge: 3 t. c. in space, ch. 2. 3 t. c. in same space, s. c. in next space, 3 t. c. in next space, ch. 2, 3 t. c. in same space, s. c. in next space. Continue round and fasten thread on wrong side. Beading and edge round neck: Stitch on hook, 2 l. t. c. in space, ch. 3, 2 l. t. c. in next space, ch. 3, 2 l. t. c. in next space. Continue round, 2 t. c. in 3 ch., p., 2 t. c. in same 2 ch., p., 2 t. c. in same 2ch., p., 2 t. c. in same 3 ch., s. c. in next space, 2 t. c. in next 3 ch., p. 2 t. c. in same space, p., 2 t. c. in same space, p., 2 t. c. in same space, s. c. in next space. Continue round and fasten thread on wrong side. No. 50 crochet cotton of any reliable make and No. 14 hook. THE MOTHER'S PRAYER. By Marietta Holley. The foe is great, the foe is strong. Our empty hands are weak; We who had toiled and suffered long Our fears we cannot speak. Our faithful labors night and day. This foe. Strong Drink, destroys We kneel amid the gloom and pray. Oh who will save our boys? Those who should help us, turn and flock To help the foe instead. Their hearts seem like the untouched rock On which vain tears are shed. The powers of good seem lost and riven. And o'er life's din and noise. This anguished cry ascends to heaven "Oh who will save our boys?" A light dawns in the eastern skies, The prophets saw afar of old the Magi wise. It led Who earnest sought the Star. We kneel and hail its dawning ray, The Light takes shape and voice, "Toil on and trust that Star today. Our God can save the boys." —Selected. The Bible. By Lucy May Green. "We believe the Bible to be the word of God." (Articles of Faith.) "Search the scriptures," said Jesus, "for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me." The Bible is a collection of scripture written by many authors, and contains sixty-six books, thirty-nine of which are contained in the Old Testament and twenty-seven in the New Testament. It is divided into one thousand one hundred and eighty-nine chapters which contain 3,173 verses. These consist of 773,692 words and 3,566,480 letters. It was written in three languages, Hebrew, Greek, and Aramaic. The divisions of the Bible are as follows The first five books, called the Pentateuch, are ascribed to Moses. The historical books are: Joshua, Judges, Ruth, 1 and 2 Samuel, Kings, Chronicles, Ezra. Nehemiah, Esther. Poetical books are: Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon. The four great Prophets: Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations (2 books), Ezekiel, Daniel. The twelve minor Prophets: Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah. Jonah. Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi. The New Testament is divided as follows The four Gospels Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. : The Acts of the Apostles, ascribed to Luke. Epistles of Paul to the various churches. Romans, Corinthians (2), Galatians, Ephesians, Colossians, Thessalonians (2). Epistles to individuals: Timothy (2), Titus, Philemon. The author of the epistle to the Hebrews is not known. 1 Epistle of James, 2 of Peter, 3 of John, 1 of Jude. and the great Apocalypse of John, The Revelation. Many books and scriptures referred to in the Bible narratives are lost to the world. In ancient times the Bible was divided into fifty-four divisions, one of which was read in the Jewish synagogue each Sabbath. The first translation of the scriptures was into the Greek, and 508 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. about 1240 A. D. the Bible was translated into Latin, and divided into chapters by a Catholic friar by the name of Hugo de Sancto Caro. The subdivision of the chapters into verses was the work of a famous Jewish rabbi named Mordecai Nathan, about 1445. The first English Bible was translated by John Wycliffe, about 1380, but was never printed, although several manuscript copies are still in existence, and are found in libraries. The first printed Bible was translated by William Tyndale assisted by Miles Coverdale, between 1525 and 1530. From that time until 1611 there were many other translations. In 1604 King James of England called fifty-four of the learned men of his kingdom to make a new translation, and in 1607, forty-seven of these commenced their work, and in 1611, was printed the King James Bible which is the one we use today. The revised version which is used quite extensively by students, was revised from the King James edition and original sources, in 1881. There are many changes made, but chiefly in grammar. Through all these many changes the Bible has come to us and we can readily understand why our Article of Faith reads:"We believe the Bible to be the word of God, as far as it is translated correctly." We can see the need of Jesus' admonition to "Search the scriptures," and his words, "Whoso readeth let him understand." We will need the Spirit of the Lord and the gift of discernment, for the Master said: "If any man will do His will he shall know of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." Read the Bible often, with a prayerful heart, and obtain a testimony of its worth. It contains the history of the creation of the world and of God's dealings with His covenant people through many generations. The prophecies of the coming Savior, and their literal fulfilment. The life of Jesus Christ on earth and the history of the Gospel dispensations. The many prophecies of the Great Apostasy, the Restoration of the Gospel, the gathering and the final consummation of all things at the end of the world. As literature, the Bible is conceded by all authorities to be the best example in the world, of scholarly, clear, exquisite English. It is a complete geography of the known portions of the world. For romance, what is more beautiful than the stories of Joseph, Ruth, Esther, David, Daniel, Jonah. For historical drama we find The Reign of the Kings, Saul, David, Solomon, and the kings succeeding them. For stories of travel there are the lives of the early Patriarchs, journeyings of the children of Israel, Paul's missionary travels, etc. Some of the most beautiful poetry in the world is contained in the Psalms of David, the writings of Job, and the songs of Moses, Miriam, Deborah, Hannah, Simeon, and Mary. For exposition we have the many beautiful sermons of the Lord Jesus, and of Paul, Peter, James and others. For Relief Society work we have the story of Dorcas, and the virtuous women in the Old and New Testaments. When in trouble and affliction we can find comfort and consolation in the Bible. What is more beautiful than John 14:15, 16; Psalms 91, 23, and many others. In order to understand and explain the principles of our gospel we need to be familiar with the Bible. "Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path," sang the Psalmist. Paul likened it to the "Sword of the Spirit which is the word of God." We sometimes sing of the iron rod, which is the Word of God. Are we holding on to it? Does the word of God prove to us that it is indeed a lamp to our feet? Can we use the sword of the Spirit to fight the battle of the Lord? Let us read the holy scriptures, both ancient and modern, and, listen also to the living oracles, for in "them ye think ye have eternal life, and these are they which testify of me." Note. The statistics and information was found in an old encyclopedia which belonged to my grandfather. TO EMMA. So wee a gift, my baby new. With auburn hair and eyes of blue. You came to us from heaven above To prove forever "God is love." So beautiful, sweet baby mine, Your spirit, child of God divine. Your presence here to us does prove That love is God, and God is Love. Lucy May Green. . Proper Guidance of Children. THRIFT. It is generally admitted by thoughtful parents, that the young should be taught to be thrifty and frugal some wise parents go; into detail and teach their children the object of their savings, and how best to spend their money. A child may learn how to hoard his money, but not how to save well unless he learns how to spend well. Some parents think they are teaching a child how to save by buying him an iron bank that cannot be opened, and then requiring him to drop into it every penny he gets not so; they are teaching him nothing of thrift or real saving, but a good lesson on hoarding. He cannot learn how to spend money properly unless he is given the responsibility of his own expenditures; therefore follows A PLAN FOR AN ALLOWANCE. If each child assumes his part in making the home a happy unit, then there is something due him of the income of that home. He should have an allowance, not as a reward for credits but because, if he is making his effort, he deserves one, especially since he will get from it one of the most important lessons of his life, that of living within his means. This allowance, if only ten cents a week, should be given at some regular time, and the one giving the allowance should attend to the business with great regularity, for this is part of the lesson to be learned. There are glass banks to be had nowadays, having two or more compartments and a little lock, that are a great improvement on the old iron bank, as children enjoy seeing the money they have deposited. The key should be in the hands of the person in charge of the account. An excellent plan for promoting thrift and teaching children to save is, A HOME BANKING SYSTEM Let us assume a case of a seven-year-old boy being allowed twenty cents a week. We may consider that he shall keep in mind four things: Regular weekly allowance, extra earnings, gifts, expenses. After totaling his salary, extra earnings and gifts, then let PROPER GUIDANCE OF CHILDREN. 511 us consider his expenses: first, right here lies a golden opportunity for teaching the Law of Tithing. As he grows older he may learn that a true tithe is one-tenth of all his increase, but for the present let him put aside one-tenth of his allowance (two cents) for tithing, have eight cents to spend, and ten cents to bank. In the disposition of the eight cents, he should be guided, but, let the mother not insist upon how he spend it, else how shall he learn his lesson? He must, however, remember that he is expected to bank half of his income. Suppose that in a moment of temptation, he spends an extra nickel, then the next week he receives but fifteen cents, which, minus his two cents tithing and ten cents for bank, leaves only three cents to spend. Under such a plan, children get the benefit of a nice little course in bookkeeping, costing them no effort, and they are happy and satisfied with a small sum. Also, the very noticeable and general habit of children teasing for a nickel, will be done away with. Some parents might look upon the spending of money by a little child as an extravagance or waste of money my observation; teaches me that under this system, the little one soon learns never to purchase perishable trash, and that there is great satisfaction in being able to bank more than half his income, and in accumulating, for when he has accumulated, say $5, he can take it to the big bank and possess a "real bank book like papa." A child who can go through a store full of attractive things, spend a small sum of money sensibly, and come home with some loose change in his pocket, is on the road to thrift. In connection with the subject of saving, it is well to teach the child HOW TO GIVE. Let him understand early in life that he owes some of his means, as well as some of his time to his church that it is nice; to give to mother and father or friends, but he should learn that small gifts, if appropriate and well selected, give better satisfaction to all concerned than extravagant gifts, and that he should give only such presents as he can afford. In other words, he should be taught to use his head as well as his purse. I have heard parents praise their children for giving presents promiscuously, thinking it an act of generosity; whereas, it was merely the act of a spendthrift. One of the greatest responsibilities that confronts the American mother today, is that of teaching her children, especially her daughters, how to spend, and to give with prudence and common sense. Our Christmas giving, for example, is becoming a crude practice, instead of the beautiful custom instituted by the three 512 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. wise men when they brought their gifts of love to the Christ Child. The child might lay aside small sums when he has extra earnings or gifts, for a Christmas or giving fund. He will soon learn how to give the things that will bring the greatest pleasure to all concerned. After all, real financing consists in wise and judicious spending, and the child who is taught to purchase necessary personal articles, games, tools and books, with discrimination, is given the best of guidance in the value and proper use of money. Let us emphasize the following maxim: Purpose, Plan. Procedure. Books to read on the subject: "Home Training" Bulletin Nos. 2 and 7, by Wm. A. McKeever. Lucy Wright Snow. Charity By Miriam Crittenden Carmen. We print here a charming poem which might well be dedicated to our honored President. Emmeline B. Wells Her life is full of simple things each day She does the common toil with homely care. A cloistered novice whom the world forgets. A widow in whose cruse is oil to spare Living so faithfully that death will seem Merely a shadow down an endless dream. For when her call shall come, she will not go As one who waiteth graciously undimmed, : Her flame-like soul will leap up at the last To some old wonted task, some lamp untrimmed Or she will hear a lonely child who cries And needs to comfort it before she dies. —Selected. Notes from the Field. Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the General Board, who visited the Benson stake Relief Society conference brought a number of interesting items in her report which we give here: Benson stake Relief Society conference, held July 14, 1916, at Richmond, Utah. There were in attendance four hundred and twenty-five sisters, and eight brothers. All branches of the work were in splendid condition. Out of a membership of eight hundred and fifty-seven, two hundred and thirty-three subscribe for the Magazine. The choir, directed by a competent leader, contained eight well-trained voices. In each of the twelve wards represented at the conference the organization is complete. The Stake President, Sister Higher, with her two counselors, Sisters Merrill and Hendricks, are very able, sincere, and energetic women, united and interested in everything that pertains to their societies. The classes in genealogy are directed by Sister Roskelly and are accomplishing a great work both in temple attendance and in teaching the necessity of the preparation of family records. In one small ward, for the first month, the teachers raised twenty-five dollars toward the penny fund for the erection of the Canadian and Hawaiian temples. J. P. M. F. Memorial Cottage, Sharon, Vermont, July 15, 1916. Dear President Smith and Aunt Julina: We reached this beautiful and heavenly place last night at 6:30, just one hour behind scheduled time. We had sent word to President Brown and he met us at the station in South Royalton. He bundled us all. bag and baggage, into his auto, and we proceeded along one of the most picturesque roads in the world which leads up to the cottage. Brother Brown pointed out the old schoolhouse where your grandfather taught the village school, and other points of interest. Upon our arrival at the cottage we all received mail. The girls danced with joy over their letters, and I can assure you we were pleased with your letter to us. Sister Hyde felt quite serious on learning of Colda's operation, but is comforted with the thought that Aunt Julina was with her. Before going any further I must tell you that we are all exceedingly well and that we have seen and heard so many wonderful things that we will never get through talking about them. 514 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Emily and Edith are two of the sweetest girls I ever knew. They are so interesting, and so interested in everything they see. This trip will be a real education to them, and I can assure you they are making the most of it. — To go back a little we left Ithaca on July 1, reaching New York the same night. We went at once to the Mission house and reported. They recommended rooms to us just through the block on 127th street. We held meeting with the New York and Brooklyn societies, and saw many of the sights in and about New York. On Thursday the 6th we went to Washington where we spent Friday and Saturday. We saw all the historic things around Washington the first day, including the old Lee Mansion at Arlington. The second morning we spent at Mt. Vernon, where we were much impressed with the typical old southern homestead and with the belongings of the Washingtons. We could have only the greatest feeling of reverence as we stood by their graves. On the afternoon of this day we went over to the Senate office building, where we had a fine visit with Senator Smoot. Later in the afternoon he took us for a most wonderful ride. Mrs. Smoot was not well enough to go with us, so we went over to the home to see her. Her ailment was a severe cold. On the next day, Sunday the 9th, we went to Baltimore where we held a splendid Relief Society meeting. We found Dr. Allen there and he was as glad to see us as we were to see him. In passing, I would say that we all felt that Baltimore is the ugliest, dirtiest, most miserable town we have visited, and oh, how hot it was! We nearly melted away. If we had not been the most amiable creatures in the world, I fear we would have been disagreeable. We left that same night for Philadelphia, where we were met by Miss Edward, a missionary. The next forenoon we visited the historic points of interest, the most interesting of which was Independence Hall. We could almost imagine the old signers of the Declaration were still alive and had just gone out for a little air and change of scene. In the afternoon we had a most interesting Relief Society meeting with a large number of investigators (women). Miss Edward felt that we had done much good here. After the meeting we went directly to the station and took the train for New York. I forgot to tell you in the beginning that Sister Empey did not go with us on this southern trip. She had relatives in New Haven, Conn., and as we desired to hold a Relief Society meeting there, she went up alone and attended to this work and visited with her relatives. We reached New York late Monday night (July 10), and left the next afternoon at six o'clock for Boston by boat. We shall never forget that boatride in the moonlight. Upon our arrival, in the morning, we went immediately to the Thorndike Hotel (a place recommended to us by Dr. Winship, whom we met in New York). In the afternoon we held meeting at Lynne, Mass. The girls decided to stay in Boston while we went over to meeting, and we were glad they did, for I tell you it took people who were old and weather-beaten to stand this trip. I never experienced such a hot, murky day in all my life. We first took a boat, then steam cars, then walked a hundred miles, it seemed. We went to the mission house where the missionaries were staying, and after taking us up a few flights of stairs, they gave us some fine, cold milk, bread, butter, and cheese. Our faces were as red as beets, — and we were puffing like steam-engines especially Jennie and I. Emma made up for this with bulging eyes and shaky hands. This was their hottest day this summer in Lynne. We had a fine meeting, and after it was over Elder Harold Barnes (17th ward) came over to Boston with us to see the girls. He was delighted to see them, I can assure you. The next day (13th) we "sight-saw" Boston. In the morning we visited Concord and Lexington and all the interesting — points connected with the Revolutionary War the homes of Emerson, Hawthorn, Louise Alcot, and Thoreau. We also went to Sleepy Hollow and saw their graves. They are neighbors in the last, long sleep as they were in life. The girls were particularly delighted to go through Louise Alcot's home where Little Women, and all her other interesting books, were written. At Cambridge we saw the homes of Lowell and Longfellow, the old Elm where Washington took command of the American army. Harvard University, etc., etc. We all voted this the most important side trip we had taken. In the afternoon we visited the Genealogical Library with which we were all delighted. The next day, the 14th, we left for Vermont, arriving here in the evening. My letter is getting so long, and I am writing so rapidly, that I fear you will not be able to read it, but I must say a word about this place. I think no one can possibly imagine what a beautiful and heavenly spot it is here at the Monument and Cottage, without actually visiting the place and after our hard and strenuous trip, ; it seemed that we had really stepped into Paradise. The rolling hills are green with verdure, and the great old trees, wonderful in their majesty; and as we rode along we could smell the sweet odors of clover and pennyroyal. Sister Brown had a delicious home-cooked chicken dinner for us, and I tell you we did full justice to it — even Emily was hearty as a farmer. After dinner we took a walk. We went over to the old site where the Mack house stood, saw where the old hearth and 516 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. cellar were built, and the remains of the old flower garden. Whether this was the place or not, we imagined that it was here that Joseph Smith courted and won the hand of Lucy Mack. We discussed the matter and all of us felt the romantic spell. The whole thing was accentuated by a beautiful, full moon, which made things almost as bright as day. We wandered back to the old well where we had a refreshing drink. As we walked around the cottage we could see in our mind's eye the little boy Hyrum playing about these grounds. We saw the old stone step where we imagined he sometimes sat and ate bread and milk out of a wooden bowl, using a pewter spoon, or bread and berry jam, as other New England children were wont to do. Everything seemed so sacred to us. We sat on the porch a while and then decided we wanted to gather round the old hearthstone. We could imagine Lucy Mack Smith sitting here by a log fire, bathing the baby Prophet, and the dear little boy Hyrum waiting upon her, and leaning upon her shoulder in turns. We thought of the cold, bleak night when the Prophet was born, and wondered how they managed to keep warm. After chatting for a while we sang, "Joseph Smith's First Prayer," and other suitable hymns. I can assure you we will never live long enough to forget this wonderful and impressive night. Today we shall visit the old schoolhouse, the farmhouse, the sugar mill or house, and the groves surrounding this sacred and historic spot. On a separate sheet I am sending you our itinerary as far as it is planned. Now, dear President Smith and Aunt Julina, I cannot close this letter without thanking you both from the bottom of my heart, for making it possible for me to take this wonderful trip. It is truly the climax of all of my opportunities and my whole soul is filled with gratitude and thanksgiving. The visit here at Vermont and the one we anticipate at Palmyra will, I am sure, be the most enjoyable and profitable experiences I shall ever have. Other places are wonderful and historic, but these places are sacred and holy. I have thanked the Lord every moment since our arrival here, that the Church has purchased this property and erected this sacred monument, and that I am permitted to see it. Well, I hope I have not tired you out. Perhaps you have already been compelled to read this in installments. With love and gratitude to you, I am. Very sincerely yours. Amy B. Lyman. P. S. — Everybody sends greetings to you. including the Browns. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 517 We present here extracts of letters written by Sisters Lyman and Hyde while on their journey. Next month we will give a full account of their historic trip with illustrations. In a letter from Sister Hyde written from Chicago, we have the following items "We held meetings all day yesterday in the sweltering heat. Had one of the largest and best attended of any of our meetings. The Spirit of the Lord was with us, and I believe everybody present felt the same. Sister Ellsworth was not present. She has overworked herself until she had a nervous collapse. She insisted, however, that we come and see her, which we did, and had a very pleasant chat, and left her feeling, I think, much relieved, as she was sick at heart because she could not go with us through the mission. This mission is in splendid condition. Such an attendance at one of our ward meetings, would, I am sure, astonish the bishop of any ward. We had many strangers and investigators, as well. The reports were splendid, showing the work from the beginning. Brother Ellsworth said, in part, this "That Relief Society work had not been considered feasible in the missions because there had never been any definite plan to work to that the Relief Society Magazine gave birth to plans; that could be adopted and used. I want to say that I consider the Relief Society as among the greatest factors in making converts, and spreading the Gospel.We do appreciate the Relief Society and its great Magazine, which is doing the work Joseph the Prophet intended it to do." Sister Ellsworth is a most capable President, understands her work, and then does it. Bannock Stake has recently been reorganized. Mrs. Julia A. Pond, who has been such a faithful and diligent president, found herself obliged to retire from her arduous labors. She certainly carried with her the love and good wishes of all her associate workers. The new officers are President, Gwennie Redford: first counselor, Katherine Sorenson second counselor, Sarah M. ; McClelland secretary, Agnes Lloyd chorister, May Barrett; ; organist, Emily Sorenson. A feature of the Pocatello Conference was a Relief Society chorus rendered in the Sunday afternoon general session with pleasing effect. Boise stake possesses an excellent Relief Society choir Mrs. ; Helen O. Hale is a natural musician and is also choir leader of the Sunday Schools. Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. State-wide prohibition seems assured in Utah. President Carranza of Mexico has decided to resign office, then be a candidate for election, thus letting go with a strong string attached to the position. Turkey still appears in the list of doomed nations, getting gradually nearer the end. Both the Russians and the Arabs have dealt the sultan severe body blows in recent battles. The Serbian army, driven from its own country, has been rehabilitated by the French, and has entered Serbia again, gaining notable success against the Bulgarians. Infantile paralysis has claimed over a thousand child victims in New York during the month of July, and yet no cure or way to prevent its spread has been discovered. Preparedness in the United States for war is making high figures in expense, the congressional program providing a $700,000,000 appropriation therefor this season. Sharks on the New York and New Jersey coasts have taken several bathers as victims this season. Bathers there now find it safer to use a bathtub, yet not half so entertaining in the public display of shapely and shapeless limbs. Armenians to the number of 800,000 are reported by American missionaries to have been put to death by the Turks during the past year. The really available protest against this butchery is the abolition of Ottoman rule. Villa, the Mexican bandit, so often reported killed, is very much alive, and during the latter part of July the Mexican government adopted energetic means to stop his activity but it cost; a lot of trouble to the United States to get this action. The Danish West Indies has been purchased by the United States at a cost of $25,000,000. The inhabitants of the Islands and the Danish government, at least, think it a good bargain. In San Francisco, a preparedness parade was made the occasion of a bomb outrage which cost the lives of several people. Peace propaganda promotion is by no means the outcome of such incidents. Verdun's battle has lasted 200 days without cessation, but the last 20 days of this period marked such a diminution in the extent of the fighting that it gained the aspect of a French victory. Prof. Evan Stephens has been a very successful leader of the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir for 26 years and, deciding that it was time for him to be relieved of the work, resigned. He is succeeded by Prof. A. C. Lund of Provo. Prof. Levi Edgar Young, of the University of Utah, is engaged in exploring prehistoric ruins in southeastern Utah, and has instituted the very desirable policy of preserving the archaeological remains there, instead of robbing them of relics. Bicycle thoughtlessness by boys riding these vehicles on sidewalks has caused another death, this time the victim being an aged lady residing at Ogden. It is another suggestion that parents should aid officers of the law by teaching their children the fitness of observing traffic rules. achieved a great victory this year in having, for the first time, a leading candidate for President of the United States make an outright declaration in its favor. Judge Charles E. Hughes says pointedly that he favors women having the voting franchise. Higher taxes in Utah generally for the year 1916 is now a certainty, but the people who pay are by no means convinced that it is a necessity further than official extravagance makes it so. George F. Richards of the Council of Apostles has taken charge of the Latter-day Saints European mission, where, at this juncture in European affairs, his characteristic courtesy and sincerityand faithfulness to duty doubtless will aid greatly in promoting the gospel cause. Europe's war has changed aspect during the past month, the Teutonic allies now being on the defensive instead of on the offensive in every field, and suffering heavy losses in the hardest fought big battles that history records. The "Deutschland," a German merchantman submarine, caused great public interest upon its arrival at an American port 520 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. in Chesapeake Bay, after a trip through the British blockade, from Bremen, Germany. This was not the first submarine, however, to cross the Atlantic, several of British nationality having made the trip from England to Canada and return. Capt. Charles Fryatt, commander of the steamship Brussels, has been put to death by the Germans because he tried in self-defense to ram a submarine which had attacked his vessel. In his efforts to justify the execution of the English captain, the Prussian kaiser seems to get as little sympathy as was extended for the execution of the English nurse, Edith Cavell. A gas well explosion in a waterworks tunnel under Lake Erie at Cleveland, Ohio, caused the death of a score of workmen. An ugly feature connected with the accident is that while two departments of the city government were quarreling over which should analyze the air in the tunnel, the men were allowed to go in;whereas, if the analysis had been made promptly none would have ventured. A frightful explosion of about 80 carloads of munitions of war on the piers at Black Tom island, on the New Jersey coast near New York City, killed several persons, destroyed about $15,000,000 in property, shook towering office buildings in New York to their foundations, and covered the streets for miles with broken glass. It is believed that an incendiary, with the purpose of destroying the munitions of war which were intended for England and France, caused the disaster. Nature as a catastrophe-bearer in North America made itself manifest in July in a fierce seaboard storm on the Atlantic coast of the United States, in devastating forest fires in Ontario, Canada, and a terrific heat wave in the north Mississippi valley, each exacting a heavy toll in human life. One night in Chicago the heat surpassed all previous records. Not only man, but the elements, seem unusually disturbed in 1916. Women in farmwork seem an important part of Germany's economic position this year. A German officer, captured recently on the Flanders front, is quoted as having said that the harvest of 1916 would determine the fate of Germany in the war. It is being made largely by women. If the women can raise a full crop, Germany cannot be starved out. If they cannot, Germany must eventually yield to her foes. War prisoners are being worked in the fields, but the results are so unsatisfactory because of unequal distribution as to bring severe criticism from many German newspapers. Home Science Department. By Janette A. Hyde ISOLATION OF A CASE OF COMMUNICABLE DISEASE The care of a case of scarlet fever or other communicable disease, so that it may not spread to other people, is not only far more effective today than it once was but far less burdensome and inconvenient for the family as well. Except in the case of smallpox, the members of the family who do not come in contact with the patient can continue their usual business unless such business brings them in close contact with children. A room as much apart from the rest of the house as possible should be set aside for the patient and the nurse or mother or attendant. Disease germs will not fly through the air from such a room; they can only be carried on the hands or clothing of the attendant, or on cups, spoons, and other objects taken out of the room. The first of all rules for isolation, then, is that the attendant and the physician and anyone else who enters the sick room and touches anything there should thoroughly wash the hands on leaving the room, and if there is danger of the clothing being soiled as by the coughing of the patient, a special gown should be worn and left in the room on going out. The second rule is that objects in the room, handled by the patient or by the nurse while she is attending the patient, should not be taken from the room; until they have been disinfected; and it is important during the course of the disease to keep the sick room itself as free as possible from gross infection. In the case of such diseases as scarlet fever and diphtheria, all discharges from the mouth, throat and nose, and eyes and ears should be disinfected with particular care. If these precautions are taken during the course of the disease, infection will be checked, and in most cases nothing more need be done at the close of the disease than to give the patient a bath and thoroughly cleanse and disinfect the room and its contents. Bulletin, New York State Department of Health. Vanderhilt Salad. Ingredients 2 small heads of romaine, which is a long-leaved lettuce 1 grapefruit 1 orange; 1 pear (fresh or canned) Grapes or candied cherries to garnish French dressing: Time: Preparation, 20 minutes. Number served 4 persons. : Wash the romaine, remove the coarse outer leaves, and cut each heart into two sections, lengthwise crisp in ice-water. Peel; the grapefruit and orange remove pulp in sections. ; Peel the pear, cut into thin slices, lengthwise. Arrange the prepared fruit neatly on the romaine hearts garnish with a few grapes, ; or a candied cherry, as convenient. Pour over French dressing. Serve very cold. Use orange juice in place of vinegar for the dressing. A cream mayonnaise may be used if preferred. Served with crackers and cheese. This makes an excellent dessert salad. Debutante Salad. Ingredients 1 head lettuce; 1 bunch cress 1 cupful chopped celery 1 cupful diced, cooked tongue 1 cupful diced, cooked chicken 12 large pitted olives, cut in rings French dressing; cream mayonnaise Time Preparation, 40 minutes. : Number served 8 persons. : Mix celery, tongue, chicken and olives. Season with French dressing let stand in refrigerator until very cold. Just before; serving add enough cream mayonnaise to well cover every particle of salad. Arrange on a bed of crisp cress and lettuce. A very dainty luncheon or reception salad. — An Ingenious Feed Dish. If you have puppies or other small animals to feed, get one of the round cake-tins with a tube in the center. Drive a pointed stick through the tube into the ground and you will have a dish that will not tip over. Good Housekeeping. To Remove Fruit Stains from the Hands. Moisten a small portion of cornmeal with vinegar and rub the hands thoroughly with the mixture. It will remove the stains and leave the hands feeling soft and comfortable. Through the shortage and very high price of fruit, it may be necessary for our sisters to make use of some of our vegetables as fruit substitutes. For example Carrots either preserved whole: or grated, and flavored with lemon rind and ginger makes an excellent preserve. Then, too, mashed squash or pumpkin pulp, flavored with spices and ginger, or both, make a most desirable dessert. The grated carrot can be cooked with raisins and sliced oranges. This makes a splendid conserve. The sliced oranges. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 523 however, must be soaked over night in water, before being added to the other fruits, to insure their soft, pulpy condition. Sister Udall of the St. Johns stake, of Arizona, served both kinds of vegetable fruits on her table, and we found them most delicious. We also recommend the old-fashioned water melon preserves, which can be used as well for sweet as sour pickles. Then, too, there is a cantaloupe variety of melon, or more familiarly known as the musk-melon, which can be substituted for peaches, plums, pears, or any of the fruits that we use for sweet pickle purposes. We must not forget the ever-delicious tomato either ripe or green — which will serve our purpose as fruit substitutes as well as any of the other vegetables mentioned. MELON RIND PICKLES, EITHER WATER MELON OR CANTALOUPE. Take rind of melon, leaving a light touch of either the pink or yellow melon meat, which adds very much to the beauty of your pickles or preserves. Trim off the outside, cut in small strips, or lengths about two inches long and an inch wide. Soak in cold water over night with the proportions following 1 tablespoon of alum to a gallon of water, with one teacupful of salt to one gallon of water. Soak over night, drain, and place in clear, cold water for rind to harden. Make a syrup and boil two parts vinegar to one of water whole spices and ginger with sufficient; sugar to suit the taste. Cook the rind of melon, until it is tender, and add to the boiling syrup. Place in a jar to cool. For three consecutive mornings, pour off the syrup and boil, returning it boiling hot to the fruit each time. The last preparation should find the syrup thick and ropy, after which it may be sealed and put away for use. We advise the free use of white sealing wax to cover the top of all fruits, jellies, and preserves, as it excludes the air, and usually prevents any formation of mold on the top of your fruits. You will find these vegetable-fruits nutritious as well as very tasty and delicious. "Lose this day loitering— 'twill be the same story — Tomorrow and the next more dilatory; Then indecision brings its own delays, And days are lost lamenting o'er lost days. Are you in earnest? Seize this very minute What you can do, or dream you can, begin it. Courage has genius, power, and magic in it. Only engage, and then the mind grows heated — Begin it and the work will be completed." EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Home Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager. .' Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. III. SEPTEMBER, 1916 No. 9. SELF-PITY. Along the difficult life-climb to health and peace A Deadly are strewn all sorts of thorns and thistles, briars Thorn. and noxious weeds. Into the delicate flesh of most sensitive people there sticks and stings the thorn of self-pity. — When its twin briar self-justification also — obtrudes its thorny clutch into the human climber, the path becomes at once too steep, the load too heavy, and down the wretch falls by the roadside to weep and groan in gasping breaths. The battle is lost, the fight is over. Nothing is so offensive to sane and well-balanced Extract climbers, who have struggled part way upward, the Poison, as the moans and plaints of these dreary failures. It may be one's wife — it is usually a woman, unless it's an artist — who thus indulges in the vicious luxury of self-pity. These emotions of ours are splendid servants, but make bitter masters. When it's a mother who thus lingers to weep over herself, the children first pity, then flee away. If one possesses ever so charming a friend who is still addicted to this most selfish and unnecessarily cruel pastime, one quietly avoids conversation and proximity. EDITORIAL. 525 Big doses of reason and self-scolding will help The greatly. Argue the thing out with yourself on Antidote. rational lines. Refuse to be sad or sorry and — say to yourself over and over till you get control of the nasty emotion, "I will not pity myself." "Resist evil and it will flee from you." Be determined to seek the good and the benefit of others —be unselfish. No really unselfish person ever pities himself. Self-pity is self-respect gone to seed. Sympathize with everybody else, except yourself. Nature will see to it that you love yourself, your way and your will, quite enough. You need to counter-balance this tendency with all your power. Self-pity puts blinders and hobbles on you, ties Cultivate your hands and crosses your feet, and you will a Sense never get anywhere with so painful a handicap. of Humor. See the funny side of life. Laugh at yourself. Make light of ordinary troubles. Get your balance by insisting to yourself that you are your own worst enemy as well as your own best friend. Crying makes your — nose red complaining makes your spirit unlovely. You are all right— sick or well, living or dead, poor or rich. Say so. Don't allow morbid self-pity to canker your spirit. Jolly yourself out of the tears and recall your favorite joke when someone neglects you or circumstances press down on your self-love. Be a sport. Laugh instead of crying. If you are ill, self-pity will double your pain and treble your affliction. Forget it. Think brightly, speak cheerfully, and help disease to flee from you. "Pity the poor beggar" —but there are no beggars in this glorious Relief Society, and none of us need pity ourselves. NOTE. We are grateful for the response made to our call for back numbers of the Magazine, but we do not wish for any numbers but the January, February, and March numbers of this current year. Magazine Managers. — Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in October. WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. JUDITH. Strictly speaking, Judith is not one of the "women of the Bible." She comes in between the period of the Old Testament days and those of the New Testament. But she is well worth considering in this series, not only because she was one of the most remarkable of Hebrew women, but also because she stands for a type of faith and courage in times of danger for the Chosen People. She was a native of Bethulia, and lived about a hundred twenty-five years before Christ. The situation which it is necessary to keep in mind in order to understand this stirring narrative is this: The king of Assyria sent ambassadors to the Jews and their neighbors, ordering them to join their forces with his, so that he might conquer the world. But they sent away his ambassadors in disgrace. The king threatened vengeance. After a war of his own he sent up against the Hebrew people his general, Holofernes, with a great army to subdue them. The Jews fell from boasting to fear at his approach. Moreover, they fasted and prayed that God would not suffer them to be overcome by their enemies. Judith, however, did more than fasting and praying, although she did these she applied the quite modern doctrine, that "God helps those that first help themselves." Bethulia was besieged. The condition there became very serious, because there was a lack of water in the town. Rising from her knees, one day, doffing her widow's weeds, and decking herself in the most bewitching costume, with jewels — and other ornaments for she was rich as well as very beautiful she went forth out of the gates of the city with her maid and walked toward the tents of the Assyrians. She had held a consultation with the leaders of her people, in which she had chided them not only for their unwisdom in conducting the work of fortification, but also for their lack of faith in the living God. And she had prayed, moreover, that God would grant her victory in what she was about to do for her people. And the two approached the camp of the enemy. GUIDE LESSONS. 527 The first watch met her. "Who are you?" they demanded. With her mouth full of cunning and deceit, she told them, "I am a Hebrew woman. I have fled from my people, and am coming to the king's army to show how the hill country may be taken without loss." The men, captivated by her beauty, took her to the camps, assuring her that the general would be glad to see her. There was great wonderment when she appeared, not only at her looks but at her daring as well. At the request of the general she was taken before his tent. Holofernes "rested upon his bed under a canopy woven of purple and gold and emeralds and precious stones." He came out with "silver lamps going before him." With a needlessness of which he was not aware, he besought her not to be afraid. "Tell me," he urged, "wherefore thou art fled from thine own people and art come to me?" She related, with truth enough, what had — befallen her people their hunger and thirst and partakings of "the forbidden thing." But she added, ambiguously, "God hath sent me to thee to work things whereat all the earth shall be astonished." And she asked the privilege of remaining in the — camp for a time which, of course, the voluptuous Holofernes was very glad to grant. He, too, was obviously infatuated with the Jewish widow. Also he affected to think that God had sent her to him. Now, both Judith and Holofernes had designs upon each other, though, it is needless to state, of a wholly different nature. He invited her to eat with him. But she refused, making the excuse that it was not proper for her to eat other than the food permitted in the law. Then he affected to be anxious that she had not provided enough. She assured him, however, with double meaning again, that "thine handmaid shall not spend those things that I have, before the Lord work by mine hand the things that he hath determined." She very craftily obtained permission of him to allow her to pass without the camp to pray. Holofernes arranged a great feast for only himself and her, dismissing all the servants early so that he might be with her alone. Pleased with his apparent success, he drank more wine, the author tells us, "than he had drunk at any time in one day since he was born." But the wary Judith drank nothing. When he was securely locked in his drunken slumber, she went to his bed, lifted the curtain, breathed a prayer to her God that He would strengthen her arm, and cut off his head with two strokes. This ghastly object she handed to her maid, with directions to put it into the bag which they had brought with them, and the two set out for Bethulia. Entering the gates, she showed the leaders her trophy. "The Lord! hath smitten him," she exclaimed, "by the hand of a woman Consternation fell upon the Assyrians when they discovered what had been done, and crying and rending their clothes, they 528 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. fled at the approach of the hosts of the Hebrews. "And there was none, we are assured by the historian, "that made the children of Israel any more afraid in the days of Judith, nor a long time after her death." It is interesting to compare and contrast the character of Esther and Judith. Both women were undeniably beautiful. A plain-looking woman, whatever the inference, could not, in the one case, have won the queenship nor, in the other case, bewitched the unsophisticated Holofernes. Moreover, both used their charms, according to the notions of the times, in the service of religion. Both, too, encompassed the death of a powerful enemy of Israel, the one through guile and the other through her influence with the king, her husband. Besides, Esther and Judith were devout, prayerful religionists. But Esther impresses us as a woman who needed guidance, direction, something or somebody to lean upon. She has little or no initiative. She is more or less timid and hesitating. Judith, on the other hand, although perfectly womanly, is self-reliant, courageous, daring, capable of decisive action in high moments. And yet she is always the woman, and a wonderful woman to smite the mind as well as the eye. QUESTIONS. 1. Relate the story of Judith. 2. Why should Judith be known today? 3. Compare Esther and Judith in as many respects as you can. 4. Which would you rather be, if you could be either? Why? 5. Which do you think a man would admire the more? Why? 6. In what respects have our standards undergone a change since the days of Judith? 7. In what respects could we profit today from the character of Judith? Explain. LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in October. LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in October. GENEALOGY. TRIBAL SURNAMES, SIRE NAMES. As soon as men join themselves to women in family relation and their children begin to multiply, they are naturally inclined to gather in groups or tribes or clans. Anciently the Hebrews GUIDE LESSONS. 529 were jealous of their tribal descent and rights. Among the Hebrews the line of demarkation between the tribes was deep and well marked, and as they became a nation and settled in cities, social classification was very marked. A sire-name is a surname derived from the personal name of the father. "Much has been written upon the surname, a comparatively modern invention. There is much that is extremely curious and suggestive in the rise and signification of the appellations of men and women, their universal or partial popularity, the alterations by which they have been adapted to different languages, their familiar abbreviations, the patronymics formed from them, and the places or articles called from them. In fact, we shall find the history, the religion, and the character of a nation stamped upon the individuals in the names which they bear. "The original proper names of men and women arose "First, from some circumstance connected with the birth, such as Esau, hairy Jacob, taken by the heel Agrippa, born ; with the feet foremost. "Secondly, from the complexion, e. g., Edom, red; Flavius and Fulvius, yellow; Don, brown; Ruadh, red; Boidh, yellow; Planche, fair. "Thirdly, from the qualities desired for the child, such as David, beloved the Persian Aspamitas and Greek Philippos, both; lovers of horses the Celtic Eochaidh, a horseman the Teutonic; ; Eadgifu, happy gift the Slavonic Przemyszl, the thoughtful. ; "Fourthly, from an animal, Deborah, the bee; Jonah, Columbia, Golubica, the dove; Zeeb, Lycos, Lupus, Wolf, Vuk, all signifying that strangely popular wild beast the wolf. "Fifthly, from a jewel, Mote Mahal, in Arabic, pearl of the harem; Margaret, a pearl in Greek; Stein, a stone or jewel in Teutonic." Now a name is a symbol or a collection of sounds which symbolizes to us ourselves, and our friends. My name is Susan yours is Mary our friend is named Miriam. It is not enough, ; however, that we have the one symbol-name attached to us, nor did it suffice for the ancient people except for one peculiar custom and that custom was to name the child for some peculiarity of look, some accident of birth or other circumstance which might mark the beginning of the child's life. In the dawn of history, therefore, each child was given a separate name, different from all others and the child needed no surname. In later centuries that would not do for people who became tired of making names and began to name their children after a parent or ancestor. Confusion resulted at once, for two or more Susans in the family made it impossible for any one of them to distinguish which was wanted when called. And so, after a few centuries the tribes were called by the tribal name, which then became a surname. 530 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Ben-Hur is Ben of the tribe of Hur. At first he would be called Ben the son of Hur, Joshua the son of Nun, Caleb the son of Jephunneh, David the son of Jesse, Isaiah the son of Amos. Among the Romans the custom obtained of having three names. that is the personal name, then came the family and then the tribal name. The daughters of the tribe bore the tribal name feminized. For instance, there were Publius Cornelius, Scipio Africanus Caius. Julius Caesar the Great, Marcus Tullius Cicero was called Cicero politically and Tullius in his family. Among the Norsemen, Angles and Saxons the custom of naming sons for fathers was soon crystallized after the Norman conquest; and then came Jameson, Thompson, Dickson, Wilson. These surnames are all found in England, and were descended from Danish forebears. The Welsh carried the Christian name of the parent down interminably, separated by an Ap or "son of" as: — — — "Jenkin-ap Griffith-ap Robin-ap William-ap Rees-ap — Evan." The "Ap" of the Welshman became "Mack" to the Scotchman and was simply "O" in Ireland. It was Von in Germany. All of these with the Scandinavian "Sen" means simply "the son of," or "belonging to the tribe of." It must here be stated that not all of any one tribe was descended necessarily from a common ancestor, for men married into the tribe sometimes and assumed the tribal name, throwing aside their own. Servants rose to dignity and power and assumed the tribal name by adoption. Captives taken in war were adopted into the tribe. It often happened that only half perhaps of any one tribe were entitled by blood inheritance to the name. MacAllister means of the tribe of Allister. The MacAllister was always the Patriarch of the tribe or clan. MacEwan is the tribe of Ewan. (Ewan is John in the Scotch dialect.) O'Connell is of the tribe of Connell. Ap-Howell is the son of Howell. Von Weber is the son of Weber. Jensen is the son of Jens. The sire-name was the commonest form of original surnames known in ancient history. QUESTIONS. Why do men gather in groups and clans? What can you tell about ancient Hebrew genealogy? Read all of chapter 5, Genesis. Relate the substance of the Book of Numbers. What is a personal name? What is a surname? What is a sire-name? What is the meaning of ap, Mac, O', Von, Sen? How did your surname originate? And yours? And yours? GUIDE LESSONS. 531 Note. The 23rd of September is the annual Genealogical day throughout the Church. We would like all Relief Society Genealogical committees and workers to make a special feature of this day, uniting where invited to do so, with the Utah Genealogical Society representatives in a general observance of the Sunday nearest that day. ART. OCTOBER DAYS. Make a study of October foliage, the scarlet maple, crimson oak, yellow chestnut, etc., as compared to the alder bushes, the fir and pine. If there is a canyon available, be sure to take an October walk. Wear stout shoes and warm wraps, and make an Alpine staff to help you over the rough places. Take some good picnic to satisfy canyon hunger. A campfire is, of course, necessary to complete an October mountain climb provide your-; self with frying pan and kettles, in which to prepare hot, fried potatoes, hot milk, or soup of some kind. By four o'clock in the afternoon, the canyon will be cold, so you should be well prepared with wraps. If you can make the trip last into the night, and come home by moonlight, you will surely be inspired with Nature's loveliness. "THE LAST RUN UP THE CANYON." Without, the air is chilly, but we are toasting warm as we draw around the board to enjoy our supper, smoking hot. We are alert to the first appearance of signs of snow. If the fleecy clouds collect, and there is a sudden rise in temperature, we know of rapidly approaching snow, and soon hie ourselves back to town, fearing to be snowed in. But for a last look, after our delicious supper, we take a run upon the side hill that commands the finest view of the whole canyon. The lovely moonlight is over all, lending an air of enchantment and mystery to the whole scene. The fleecy clouds rapidly gather, and we see in our mind's eye the white snow-blanket that will soon wrap all the landscape. The brilliant leaves are mostly fallen. The air has lost its crispness, and a delicious feeling prevails. We quickly pack our traps, and ourselves, into the auto, with eyes only for all that can be seen in our flying trip. We give our fancy wing, for this is truly an opportunity for fancy's finest play. 532 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. QUESTIONS. a. Describe the oak in its gayest dress. b. Describe the maple in its most brilliant colors. c. Describe the mountain mahogany. d. Describe the elderberry, and the alder. Note: If none of these are to be found, substitute the natural foliage of the mountains where you live. e. Describe the October sunset. Compare it with the September sunset. f. Describe the moonlight in October. Compare it with the moonlight when the foliage is mainly green. Note The green: coloring is scarcely lost by moonlight. Green is so persistent by all manner of light. g. Which is darker by moonlight in October, the sky or mountains? Describe the difference between the side of the canyon in the moonlight and the one in shadow. h. Note if any snow has fallen on the mountains in October. i. Describe your October trip into the mountains. If the snow has not fallen early, we make a late trip into the mountains for a last glimpse and to see that the mountain cabin is securely fastened for winter. We close up the doors and windows always open in summer, and build a big fire in the one room that can be closed from the out of doors. We have brought oysters to fry, rolls to toast, and milk and chocolate. ARCHITECTURE. WAR PERIOD, AND THE MODERN MOVEMENT, EXAMPLES OF RECENT ARCHITECTURE. a. Tell of the waning of the artistic influences in American architecture. b. Describe the Capitol Building at Albany. (Resembles the Salt Lake City and County Building.) c. Tell one fundamental error in building and planning. d. Describe St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York City. e. Describe Trinity Church and Grace Church, in New York City. f. What can you say of the Modern Movement? How was American architecture influenced? g. What influence had Ecole des Beaux Arts on our architecture? h. Describe Trinity Church, Boston. What striking contrasts did Richardson use? GUIDE LESSONS. 533 i. What did the Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia, 1876, do for us? (Utah students went to Paris on account of its art.) j. What is the modern movement? k. Describe the Auditorium Theatre, Chicago. l. Madison Square Gardens and the Casino Theatre at New York City. m. Describe the Boston Public Library. (Interior much like the U. of U.) n. Describe the Congressional Library at Washington. o. Describe the Law Library of Columbia University. p. What architects are improving West Point Naval Academy? q. Who is working on the Naval Academy at Annapolis? r. Describe St. Thomas' Cathedral, New York City. What influences does it show? Why is it so wonderfully beautiful, and who are its architects? LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in October. CO-OPERATION AS A FACTOR FOR GOOD IN THE HOME AND COMMUNITY. DEFINITIONS OF CO-OPERATION. (a) "Letting go the lesser in order to keep the greater." (b) "A harmonious working together for the good of all." To these might be added another, "true co-operation is team work." HOME CO-OPERATION. If co-operation is team work, the home is the training school for team workers. Thus responsibility rests upon the heads of the home to co-operate with each other and to develop plans whereby the children, and any who contribute to the working operations of the home, may be co-operators. Thus and only thus will harmony in the home prevail for system and order are; the first laws of harmony and harmony is the law of the infinite. — The Law of Co-operation. The home has two aspects, first the working home consisting of two parts, the man's business or profession, which may be mercantile, educational, or agricultural, and the woman's profession, that of keeping house, and though important, they are comparatively "the lesser;" second, the educational, ethical, character building home, in which men and women share the making, which in the ideal home grows side by side with the first and which is by far "the greater." Without close co-operation the efficiency of the working home is marred and the growth of the home beautiful is retarded. — Team Work. On the farm even more than in other kinds of business the systematic conduct of home work is apt to be made second to the seasonable activities of the out of doors. Like "time and tide" harvests "wait for no man." But a plan made in the beginning, elastic to allow for give and take on both sides would help. The following illustrations will serve Mrs. Nellie Kidzie: Jones, that practical home scientist of Wisconsin, does her washing with the aid of two of the farm hands. In slack seasons the work is done at a regular time, but at harvest time, to quote her own words, "I use the men when I can get them. Sometimes it is in the cool of the evening. The speed with which the work is done, and the ease, more than makes up for the waiting, and the men are always willing." A young housewife, at the end of her first year on the farm, firmly but gently told her husband that she would not have the supper hour so late that the home evening was done away with. The supper should be ready at any hour he wished, up to six o'clock, and while the chores were being finished she would clear up, and they would spend the evening together. In the first instance, Mrs. Jones has won confidence by her experience and tact. In the second, the young wife was establishing a precedent. But new home-makers, please note the entire willingness to co-operate, in the first case, by the consideration for the man's business, and in the second, that the supper was to be ready on time. The Children. — "But," says a mother of many, "that is all very well at first, but wait till the baby comes." Doctors and nurses all tell the same tale, under normal conditions regular habits of sleeping and eating, including in the last quality and quantity, make a healthy and therefore a good baby. And later, as the bit of plastic humanity develops tendencies and needs attention, and still later, the child begins to ask for work —well, providing the health is good, the so-called naughty child is the one for whom nothing of definite interest is provided. They want to do something "really truly." "I want to help you make a cake," said a little girl. "Oh, run and make mud pies, darling, and when you get to be a big girl you shall help mother," was the reply. These are the chances for co-operative lessons, and a part of the educational home which will result in the helpful home later on. The successes of the great vocational movement GUIDE LESSONS. 535 in education rests, I am convinced, with the mothers of today, and must begin at home and with the first child. The home credit system, if taken seriously by the parents, is to be a means of solving the problem of how much a school girl should be asked to do in the home. — The Boy's Part in Home Work. This needs a special paragraph for long established custom has made us divide the work into the divisions of "male and female," the first strong and glorified, fitted only to the superior agency to perform them and; the second, corresponding to the mentally inferior and weak physical organism of the woman. These ideas have been receiving rude shocks of late years. We have recognized that the woman is just as capable as man to take her part in the business and professional world. War-torn Europe is developing agriculturists among the women, in response to its dire necessity for food. The result of these things is to make the work of men and women co-operative but under normal conditions, divided in; such a manner as to allow her the greatest possibilities for ideal motherhood, and opportunities for contributing to the ethical and character-building home. In early years the boy should do his share in the home work, and as the man's side in boyhood calls him should still take his share in the tasks requiring greater physical strength. Not that the mother and sisters cannot perform them if needs be, but his knowledge of her higher functions will lead him to spare her any overdrain upon her strength. Parents should remember that they are the trainers of the future husbands of the race, and upon the lessons in co-operation, that harmonious working together for the good of all, in their home depends the happiness of future homes. The woman who brings up her sons with the idea that any share of the house work is beneath them, belittles her own profession. — Extraneous Work. But in spite of all the co-operative planning, it has appealed to many people that much time is being put into work in the homes that does not really belong there. This is work that requires an enormous amount of physical energy, and the use of expensive equipment, that might be accomplished just as well outside of the home. One method of bringing this about is by community co-operation. Unselfishness. —The community in which each member is afraid that the other fellow will get more than his share will never become co-operative in anything. — Loyalty. The abandoned creameries show a lack of loyalty to the home industry. Homes without water facilities often mean a lack of co-operation on the part of some who fear taxation for the benefit of many. Progressive Viewpoint. —Women especially need to take a 536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. broader view of the home task so as to adjust the work to the best advantage for the future. However picturesque the spinner at the spinning wheel, it would have been retarding the growth of the home to have insisted on holding on to this task. The great industrial upheavals of the past ages have paved the way for the larger life of today. But we are still holding on to tasks that overstrain the physical, and use up energies that should be devoted to that second aspect of the home, partly because we are slow to let go the lesser in order to keep the greater. — Economy. Many housewives pride themselves upon their economy of material that are wasteful of both energy and time. Do you realize that in the canning season thousands of individual boilers are being placed at almost the same time upon thousands of individual stoves, and that thousands of individual women are broiling over what is really a communal task? We might learn a lesson from the fact that it takes only one sun to broil them all. The same thing occurs weekly with the wash boiler on "black Monday," and is carried on into the week over the ironing board. Community co-operation will make home economics an economy of material, time, and labor, by taking out of the home tasks that may be done just as well, and at less expense, by the community. — The Power of Doing Team Work. Women sorely need development in this essential characteristic of progress. The inclination to be critical of each other, to think that their "own way" is synonymous with the "best way," to work in ruts so deep that it seems well nigh impossible for the wheels to break either down or out of them, are the biggest obstacles to efficient team work. ACTIVITIES IN WHICH WE DO NOT WANT TO CO-OPERATE. — Homes. This has been tried but not successfully, since. when we take away the individuality of the home, we usually fail. — Children. The Oneida Society of New York state sought to make the child the property of the community, on the plea that it would have a better chance for education and development of special gifts under such conditions. An interesting argument might be gotten up for and against but, as a matter of fact, it; failed. — Nutrition. Public dining rooms to my mind take away from the home one of its highest and most interesting functions, the nutrition of the family, the individual taste, and the family table. GUIDE LESSONS. 537 ACTIVITIES FOR COMMUNITY CO-OPERATION. HOUSEHOLD TASKS. — Sewing. Co-operation of neighborhoods in general home sewing by purchase in bulk of materials in table linens and underwear, and the hiring of a woman in common to do the work at a central place, has been tried with good success. — Mending. The same thing has been done with the mending basket by the hiring at small expense of some one person with leisure to go the rounds and clean up the mending basket. Some of the school departments of Domestic Art have co-operated with the busy homes and thus killed two birds with one stone, relieved the mother and taught the daughter. — Sweeping. The purchase of a good vacuum cleaner by several homes in common where the price was prohibitive to one, has relieved some home-keepers of a heavy task. — Canning. An interesting experiment is being tried out in one of the southern counties of Utah. A band of women has purchased in common a "steam or pressure cooker," a piece of equipment that has the merit of doing the work in a fourth of the time, with a surety of result and a minimum expense for fuel. They expect to put up all their vegetables and meats at a central place, working in co-operation with each other as to time of use. One woman said that if the washing and ironing were out of the home she would consider the rest of the work as nothing in comparison. It seems as if much valuable time is put into the weekly recurring task that might be better spent. The following are things to be said for and against: VALUE OF CO-OPERATIVE LAUNDRY. — Economy of Time to the Many. One central plant doing the work of many individual homes. The purchase of first class machinery for all laundering purposes by many at small cost to each, saving the price of at best one piece of equipment by a comparatively few at greater cost to each purchaser. The use of the power of such plants as canneries, creameries, cheese factories, at minimum cost to consumers. Increased Cleanliness. —The natural inclination is to reduce the size of the washing. The comfort and healthfulness of being able to change the household linen regularly, and use as much fresh underwear as the needs of the wearer demand, cannot be overestimated. You have heard of the busy housewife who said that the only reason she wanted to be a queen was so that she might have fresh clothing on every day. 538 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. — Economy of Wear. Clothing changed frequently wears much longer than when worn constantly, and requiring so much extra rubbing in the wash tub. — Economy of Energy. A doctor who said that the three things that affected the nursing mother's milk was overheating, overworking, and worry, or any passion, was asked what a woman should do who had a heavy washing in progress when the baby's feeding time came. His reply was, "Madam, either put the washing out during the nursing period, or stop working at least half an hour before the time of feeding." Many babies are suffering from wash days. Is it not time, Utah women, to be thinking along the lines of the women of Minnesota and Wisconsin and planning to "let go the lesser in order to keep the greater?" — Objections to a Public Laundry. One of the oft made objections is that the washing will not be done to suit the housewife. We realize that care in choosing the operators will have to be taken. The work must be done up to home standards. It is an undisputed fact that most women know more about doing the washing than about feeding their families. There are women in every town who are available and anxious for work, who by taking a correspondence course in laundry work, or even an intelligent study of a good manual, could with their practical experience take charge of a laundry. — Danger of Infection. Watchfulness would be needed, but for all ordinary cases the boiling water and exposure to the sun would eliminate all danger. — The Ready Cash not Available. When a town wants lights the bill for electricity is paid without difficulty. When the need occurs the price will be forthcoming. — The Cost too High. Quoting from data received from the Co-operative laundry of Chatfield, Minn., the average price per washing on the farm is 97.9 cents. The cost of fuel, starch, soap, and interest on machinery alone amounts to more. Would Rather Save the Money and Buy Something Else. — "Penny wise and pound foolish." Not the pound is the "pound of flesh" and is a sacrifice of the greater for the lesser. — "Clothes not Good Enough to Send." Do we not need to teach the girl and boy the lesson that no matter how plain, the underwear must be neat and clean. Might not a community laundry be an aid in raising the home standard in such matters? — How to Organize Community Activities. Find out the needs of the individual community. Believe in the scheme and talk it up so as to create sentiment. Send for information on methods of organization. — The Opportune Time. We may not be ready for the advanced idea of such co-operation as the foregoing. We may prepare for it in the future by making every home so co-operative; GUIDE LESSONS. 539 that the next step will be but a step in advance. Then those who are leaders must seize the opportune moment that always comes when time is ripe for action and without undue strain the thing is accomplished, always remembering that the working together for the good of all in a community is the result of the team work of the home. QUESTIONS. 1. What is the true principle underlying co-operation? 2. What are some of the advantages of co-operation in the home? 3. What about community co-operation? 4. What can you say about the United Order? 5. How can you teach children the principles of co-operation? 6. What would you think of a neighborhood laundry? 7. Devise a plan for a co-operation cafeteria. 8. What benefit is a creamery to a town? 9. How would you organize a community canning factory? 10. What effect would a community day nursery have in your town? 11. Read the 104th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, verses 47-53. AT EVENING. How softly fall the evening shadows pale, Golden and purple sunsets blend and fade Night robes earth quietly with mantling veil, And peace and rest the gentle hour pervade, Great nature soothing with her potent power, Breathes to the world-worn heart her sympathy Amid the tranquil of such spell-bound hour, The memories of the past steal tenderly, Athwart the scene, the moon with golden trail, As erst with pitying glance and mellowed light, Sweeps through the empty space with steady sail. And floods with beauty the enchanted night. It is the time for sweet and tender thought, And whisperings of the life that is to be, And Faith and Trust, with holy impulse fraught, Speak to the soul in nature's poetry. Unconscious of ourselves we yield to sleep. And white-robed beings 'round our couches stray. In sacred stillness holy vigils keep, While night assumes the sceptre of her sway. Emmeline B. Wells. — My Friend L. Lula Greene Richards Lucy M. Green My friend, I look to thee, Most kind and true, To shield and 2 I have no power to fill Life's great design, Save as I 3 Sure is thy promise sweet To all who hear, And thou wilt comfort me Life's journey through. Darkness and death extend learn thy will And make it mine. Help me to understand guide my feet, I have no fear. So all life's journey through With wild increase. And still with thee, my friend, Is Thy faintest call; Let me but touch thy hand, I Until the end I'll trust thy love most true, My perfect peace. Is perfect peace. shall not fall, I shall not fall. faithful friend. My faithful friend. Z. C. M. I. School Shoes For Boys Are made for service they will keep the boys' feet warm and dry. Z. C. M. I. ALLOVERS are the ideal The Food for play garment Your Family for boys and girls. Cheap, Artificial things always have their day. A fancy breakfast food serviceable. may be popular for a short time, but since health is priceless, nearly everyone turns, sooner or later, back to nature for pure, unchanged foods, like ROLLED OATS Travel More Locally at ½ There is nothing artificial about these little Cost ½. . oats, just the biggest, mellowest, most delicious oats that can be produced in this ½ Via. ½ mountain country, are rolled to a flakiness Oregon Short Line and a palatability that delights the whole family. You do not have to coax the # HALF FARE SUNDAYS boys to eat "SUNRIPE" Rolled Oats. # SLIGHTLY MORE # SATURDAYS & HOLIDAYS "Contains the Strength of the Hills'' Try Sunripe Koffe-et for a refreshing, healthful drink. "Better than ever." Utah Cereal Food Co. OGDEN, UTAH EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Genealogical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Utah's Most Popular Music House SHEET MUSIC 10 CENTS (if by mail, add 1 cent a copy for postage) CENTURY EDITION is not printed from type plates but by an expensive lithograph process, thus eliminating all imperfections. Every copy is perfect in itself and is printed in full size sheet music paper of finest quality. Prominent English and American Teachers and Musicians the world over take special pride in recommending this justly celebrated ARCHITECTURE edition. By GEO. M. ALLEN FREE CATALOG OF is in Mrs. Home's Art Book, 1800 SELECTIONS DEVOTEES AND THEIR VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL SHRINES. (Mention this Magazine) Send to this office or to Mrs. Alice Merrill Home, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned. PRICE $1.26 POSTPAID "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH' Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing announces the opening of its thirteenth school year on Monday, September 18, 1916. School term, 8 months. — Course A Entrance fee for the course in Obstetrics, which includes nursing and invalid cooking $50.00. — Course B Entrance fee for course in Nursing, which includes invalid cooking $25.00. — Course C At intervals during the school year, lectures on Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases, Etc., will be given by eminent physicians, surgeons, and specialists. No charge. — Course D A class in Invalid Cooking will be conducted by experts no extra charge for students taking other courses. ; Instructor, DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS. For further information write to General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman, Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters —and sons—to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. THE SAPPHIRE Unless it's the sky there is no prettier blue than the Sapphire, the birthstone for September. We have them in Gold Rings, for the little tots at a dollar, for the Miss ten to $2.00 and $5.00. Some extra fine ones for men, twenty dollars. Come in and look at them. If you live out of Salt Lake write about them. No trouble to show goods or write letters. McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. CALIFORNIA Where Cool Sea Breezes Blow Spend Your Vacation where it will be of most benefit to you and your family Lake Tahoe America's Most Beautiful Mountain Lake is only one hour's side trip. San Francisco, Big Trees, Santa Cruz, Del Monte, Monterey, Pacific Grove, Santa Barbara and Los Angeles are all ideal places for rest and enjoyment. Summer Rates on Sale Daily Phone Was. 6900 C. L. McFAUL District Passenger Agent, City Ticket Office, 203 Walker Bank Bldg. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RELIEF SOCIETY OCTOBER. 1916. TRAVELING NUMBER DAUGHTERS OF ZION Mrs. Ida Bowman Smith NOTES FROM OUR SECRETARY AFIELD Amy Brown Lyman. HOME SCIENTISTS IN CONVENTION Janette A. Hyde. THE SERVANT PROBLEM Guide Lesson Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29, Bishop's Bldg.,Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c Vol. III. No. 10. TWO BOOKS The Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead Sugar for A simplified form, with complete instructions for properly recording this work. All Purposes L. D. S. Family and Individual Record Arranged specially for recording in most desirable and concise form, important events in the lives of the Chemists claim and food authorities assert that "Utah-Idaho" is as perfect as any sugar made anywhere in the members of the church. world today. It's the sugar housewives may depend on for all purposes. These books are sold at $1.25 each Deseret News Book Store 6 MAIN STREET Your fruit canning is more likely to be a success if you insist on — "Utah-Idaho" the standard of When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct sugar perfection. Most economical by the sack. Style, Excellence and Satisfaction Utah Idaho Sugar ABSOLUTELY PURE The Thomas UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. Studio JOSEPH F. SMITH, President Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. THOS. R. CUTLER, Vice-Pres. and Gen'l Mgr. Established 1877 Phone Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY Have You Read The Women of The Bible, by Elder Willard Done If not, Why not? The book will help you in your Theology Lessons, it will give you a greater insight and love for the Bible characters, and will also make you glad that you are a woman and a sister to these good and glorious women who lived and loved and suffered even as we do today. Buy one for yourself, your mother, daughter or friend. PRICE, 75c For Sale by Deseret News Book Store The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS. OCTOBER, 1916. The Future Life William Cullen Bryant 541 Mrs. Ida Bowman Smith Frontispiece Daughters of Zion 543 A Sure Defense L. Lula Greene Richards 546 Notes from Our Secretary Afield Amy Brown Lyman 547 Home Scientists in Convention Janette A. Hyde 559 The Prince of Ur Homespun 569 Semi-Annual Relief Society Conference 573 Mothers in Israel 574 Current Topics James H. Anderson 582 EDITORIAL: Out of Death Life is Born. 584 Guide Lessons 586 ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY. Patronize those who advertise with us. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City. MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY— 60 East South Temple. OREGON SHORT LINE RAILWAY, Salt Lake City. STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J, Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City. THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City. TAYLORS. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St., Salt Lake City UTAH CEREAL FOOD CO. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City Utah. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. "WOMEN OF THE BIBLE," by Willard Done. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. Every Patron ARE WE OF ISRAEL? A Friend By GEO. REYNOLDS The friendship of the patrons above A NEW EDITION of this bank is held the profits made through the handling of their NOW READY accounts. Our officers know Paper Binding 25c Postpaid nearly every man, woman and child who bank here. And Deseret Sunday School Union Book Store they are glad at all times to talk and advise with them. 44 East on South Temple Our sincerest aim is to help. We Salt Lake City. Utah would like to count you as a friend and a customer. 4 per cent interest paid on savings. "The Bank with a SALT LAKE'S Personality." LADY FLORIST Merchant's Bank Mrs. Emma J. Sanders Capital $250,000. Member of Salt Lake Clearing House. 278 South Main Street. John Pingree, Prest. O. P.; Schramm-Johnson No. 5 Soule, V. P.; Moroni Heiner, V. P.; Radcliffe Q. Cannon, L. J. Hays, Asst. Cashiers. Phone Wasatch 2815 Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. RELIEF SOCIETY DEPARTMENT HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 the purpose THE UTAH STATE NATIONAL of this Bank at all times is to render S.M.TAYLOR & Co. BANK helpful service and Undertakers and Embalmers SALT LAKE CITY make the handling UTAH of your banking business SUCCESSORS TO satisfactory and pleasant. Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 Years in One Location UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK 251-257 E. First South Street Your Account is Cordially Invited Salt Lake City. Utah Efficient Service, Fair Methods, Complete Equipment JOSEPH F. SMITH. Pres. — THE FUTURE LIFE.. How shall I know thee in the sphere which keeps The disembodied spirits of the dead, When all of thee that time could wither sleeps And perishes among the dust we tread? For I shall feel the sting of ceaseless pain If there I meet thy gentle presence not, Nor hear the voice I love, nor read again In thy serenest eyes the tender thought. Will not thy own meek heart demand me there? That heart whose fondest throbs to me were given? My name on earth was ever in thy prayer, And wilt thou never utter it in heaven? In meadows fanned by heaven's life-breathing wind, In the resplendence of that glorious sphere, And larger movements of the unfettered mind, Wilt thou forget the love that joined us here? The love that lived through all the stormy past, And meekly with my harsher nature bore. And deeper grew, and tenderer to the last, Shall it expire with life, and be no more? A happier lot than mine, and larger light. Await thee there for thou hast bowed thy will; In cheerful homage to the rule of right, And lovest all, and renderest good for ill. For me, the sordid cares in which I dwell Shrink and consume my heart as heat the scroll. — And wrath has left its scar that fire of hell Has left its frightful scar upon my soul. Yet though thou wearest the glory of the sky, Wilt thou not keep the same beloved name, The same fair, thoughtful brow, and gentle eye. Lovelier in heaven's sweet climate, yet the same? Shalt thou not teach me, in that calmer home, The wisdom that I learned so ill in this — The wisdom which is love till I become Thy fit companion in that land of bliss? William Cullen Bryant MRS. IDA BOWMAN SMITH. Member General Board of the Primary Association. Late President of the European Mission Relief Society. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. III. OCTOBER, 1916. No. 10. Daughters of Zion. Mrs. Ida Bowman Smith. We are pleased to present to our readers a little resume of the labors performed under the most trying circumstances during the last two years, in the British Mission, by Sister Ida B. Smith, late president of the European Mission Relief Society. Being the wife of President Hyrum M. Smith, Sister Ida was able to reach the widest possible circle of friends and Saints, as well as having the opportunity to travel about and mingle freely with the scattered branches of the Church in that famous mission. She was appointed by the General Board as President of the Relief Societies in that mission in 1914, and has spared neither time nor her own strength in the accomplishment of the great work she has been able to do. Gifted with a charming personality, gracious and tactful, her handsome presence has been like a beam of sunshine to all with whom she came in contact. Sister Smith assumed her labors just at the outbreak of the war, and, naturally, her attention was at once directed to the alleviation of suffering among the women and children of that war stricken country. It will be remembered by the readers of the Magazine, that Sister Edna L. Smith — President of the sister workers in the Salt Lake Temple was moved upon to raise a voluntary contribution among her associates and friends for the sufferers in the war-stricken countries in Europe. An instant response to her magnetic appeal was made, and within a month. Sister Smith sent several hundred dollars to President Hyrum M. Smith. This inspirational movement by a devoted woman, no doubt moved the Church authorities to call a general fast meeting which was held throughout the Church, in February, 1915, and which we all know resulted in raising a fund in one day of over thirty thousand dollars. 544 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. When the war broke out, President Ida B. Smith at once offered her assistance to the lady Mayoress of Liverpool, and her offer was eagerly accepted. She arranged for the Edna L. Smith Fund to be used entirely for destitute families and the orphan children of the war. The Relief Societies were supplied with materials by the various war-relief British associations and hundreds of articles were made for the use of the soldiers at the front. This relief work continues to occupy our sisters all over Europe in their various societies. Sister Smith has thus come into prominent association with all of the relief committees in England. Especially was she honored with letters of greetings and gratitude from many mayors and heads of official bureaus and Red Cross Societies. It is impossible to estimate the value and extent of the influence and friendship thus gained by this devoted worker. From a membership in the Relief Societies in Great Britain of a little over 400, in 1914, in one year there was an increase of over one thousand members. There were 42 branch organizations during the year of 1914. Today there are 99 such branches in the European conference. During the current year, there has been distributed in these branches $3,210.86, while they still have a balance on hand of $1,046.13. Sister Smith has been a member of the General Board of the Primary Association for a number of years, and has done splendid work in that organization. She is the mother of a family, and has never spared herself in her service to her noble husband, her gifted family, and her admiring friends. Besides all this, she has added her unique and unequalled labors in organizing and carrying forward a magnificent relief work in the British Mission during the past two war-stricken years. We are told by an eye-witness of the labors performed by this remarkable woman, of a visit she has recently paid to Hull, on her way to Glasgow and New Castle. From there she went to Sheffield and then to Manchester. This was in the first week in this present month, August, and was the beginning of a three weeks' missionary tour taken by Sister Ida, accompanied by her little daughter Geraldine, visiting in the interest of the Relief Societies of the United Kingdom. She had received so many letters from the sisters all over the British Mission, pleading that she come and visit them once more before she left for home, that the president of the mission concluded to make appointments for meetings in each conference, and sent her around the circuit on a final visit to the societies. It required three weeks of constant travel, with meetings nearly every day, but so urgent was the call, that she was willing to undertake the labor. The president of the mission testifies that "nothing more beneficial to the mission could happen at the present time than the DAUGHTERS OF ZION. 545 fulfilling of these appointments made with the women of Great Britain. Most of the Societies have been, and are still working with the Red Cross organizations in the various cities of Great Britain. They have done good work, and a great deal of it their labors; have been greatly sought after, and appreciated by the Red Cross workers. Many hundreds of articles, in great demand by the British Army and hospitals, have been made and voluntarily sent to the different committees, having in charge the collection and distribution of such needful things. The members of the Relief Societies, everywhere, have found happiness in this work, and have performed it earnestly and cheerfully. It has also had the effect of bringing more of the sisters into closer touch with each other, and has aroused greater activity in all of the Church matters, uniting the sisters together, as perhaps they were never so united before. To the Lord first should praise be given, for the inspiration to his handmaiden. Sister Edna L. Smith, who began this charitable work, and to Sister Ida, secondly, for her diligent labor among the Societies, is due the main credit for the present splendid condition of the Relief Societies in the British Mission. The mission itself and all the members thereof have been benefited by this work, more even than we can at present understand. Sister Ida's influence among the sisters, and other members of the Church, as well as among the elders and all others with whom she has mingled and labored, has been truly remarkable. She has been filled with real missionary zeal, and has kept up a voluminous correspondence with the fifty Relief Society organizations in the British Mission itself, and with the thirteen conference presidents of the mission, scattered throughout Europe. She has preached the Gospel to every one with whom she has come in contact —shop people, when buying in the stores school teachers and music teachers with whom her children have studied; physicians, whose professional services were required from time to time at mission headquarters; prominent and famous English women of the war zones ministers and other church workers; whom she has met fellow passengers on the trains widows, and; ; orphans, whom she has sought out and administered to them temporal and physical comfort, made possible by the E. L. S. Fund. Hundreds of the poor and almost destitute children from the slums have had the Gospel preached to them in the most tactful and sympathetic manner by this lovely daughter of Zion. She has borne testimony to the appearance of the Savior, to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and to the Church established in this latter day by the Prophet Joseph. She has been treated most kindly and courteously, and has won the confidence and professed friendship of all who have listened to her, and none have refused to listen. The 546 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. attitude of some has been rather doubtful at first, but invariably such people have expressed pleasure in coming to a better understanding of the Latter-day Saints, as a result of these conversations. Naturally, Sister Smith is humbly and truly grateful to the Lord, and gives Him the credit and praise for her countless blessings enjoyed during her mission. Her husband and she have sowed and watered, and the Lord will give the increase. We congratulate all of our sisters in the British Mission on the splendid work Sister Smith has done, and we honor and appreciate her as the leader and organizer of that work. She is most welcome to Zion. Wherever her feet may turn, may the flowers of peace and love spring about her path, as they always have, during her past life. A SURE DEFENSE. Prayer and Love. Husband, father, worn with cares, 'Mid this busy, rushing life. Never miss the daily prayers Sure defense through all the strife. Round your wife still place your arm. Keep that delicate, pure charm Which to love gave sweetest zest When you were so young and blest. Wife and mother, when your heart Trembles 'neath the weights that form, True to womanhood, your part Is to quell the rising storm. When your calm, sweet voice is heard. Let it be with loving word. Helpful, patient, full of cheer. Prayer and love can conquer fear. L. Lula Greene Richards. Notes from our Secretary Afield. By Amy Brown Lyman. It was a credit to the Relief Society to have three of its Board members, who were accompanied by two daughters of President Joseph F. Smith, in attendance at the Home Economics Convention at Ithaca, New York. In addition to going to Ithaca, the Board members were also appointed to visit branches of the Relief Society in the Eastern, Northern, Central and Western States Missions. The party consisted of Emma Empey, Janette A. Hyde and the writer, members of the General Board, and the Misses Emily and Edith Smith. From Ithaca we went directly to New York City where we received a hearty welcome from President and Mrs. Monson of the Eastern States Mission, and Miss Margaret Edward who is in charge of the Relief Society work there. After securing comfortable rooms near Mission headquarters, arrangements were made for holding meetings in the following branches: New York, BRIDGE ACROSS STREAM IN WATKINS GLEN Mrs. Lyman Mrs. Empey Emily Smith Edith Smith Mrs. Hyde 548 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Brooklyn, Baltimore. Philadelphia, New Haven, Conn. Lynn, ; Mass. and Toronto, Canada. ; Mrs. Bertha Eccles Wright is President of the New York Society, and Mrs. Isabel Wingrave, of the Brooklyn Branch. Mrs. Eccles Wright presided at the Union meeting of these branches. There were present, in addition to the Relief Society officers and members, President Monson, Secretary John I. Davis — and the visiting sisters from Salt Lake City twenty-two in all. At the officers' meeting both Societies were reported, but at the regular meeting the entire time was given to President Monson and the visiting sisters from Salt Lake City. Both the New York and Brooklyn Branches are holding weekly meetings, and are following, as nearly as possible, the lessons as outlined by the General Board, particular interest being manifested in the genealogical lessons and the studies on the Women of the Bible. On account of the scattered condition of the members of these large cities, it is impossible to make a feature of the teachers' work the officers, however, manage to keep in close, personal touch with all the members of the Society. One very interesting item reported, was that the sisters are working on a carpet to be used in the new Church that is to be built in Brooklyn. The little hall where the Latter-day Saints hold service in Baltimore is located just across the street from the Johns Hopkins Hospital, and is very comfortably furnished. The meeting was a combination of Sunday School and Relief Society with forty-two in attendance. Elder Elihu Call presided and after the Sacramental Service, which included a short talk by a very bright Sunday School girl of twelve years, the remainder of the time was occupied by the visitors of the General Board. The Sabbath day was very peaceful, and a spirit of love, union and good fellowship pervaded the assembly so that in spite of the intense heat, the interest and attention. were exceptionally good. Miss Louie O. Thomas, a very capable and charming young lady missionary from Lehi, Utah, presided at the officers' meeting. She has for some time acted as president of the Baltimore branch. Associated with Miss Thomas were the Misses Irene Case and Ella Gibbs, also from Utah. Miss Thomas reported, and it was also very evident that the Baltimore Society is in good condition, the officers and members all showing deep devotion and active interest in the work. Weekly meetings are held and the prescribed outlines followed in the work. While in Baltimore we visited the great Catholic Cathedral which is especially noted because it is here that Cardinal Gibbons has held service for so many years. He still conducts the services occasionally. At Philadelphia our meeting was held in the Latter-day Saints NOTES FROM OUR SECRETARY AFIELD. 549 hall and was well attended, there being in all thirty-four present, and members, several elders and some including, besides officers investigators. There was a beautiful spirit manifested in the meeting at the close of which we shook hands with all present and had a very interesting informal hour. Miss Edward who came from New York to be in attendance was the presiding officer. Miss Lena Schmidt of Philadelphia is the local president of the branch. We visited Independence hall, the Betsey Ross home where the first American flag was made by Mrs. Ross, and the Old City Cemetery where Franklin lies buried beneath a large stone slab. His grave is very modest and plain, similar to that of President Brigham Young. We also visited the Old Christ Church and sat in the pew which was used by the Washingtons during their residence in Philadelphia and where Lafayette sat on his occasional visits here. While the other members of the party were at Brooklyn and Philadelphia, Sister Empey went alone to New Haven. She was met at the station by Elder Lawrence Sloan, son of Thomas and Edna Wells Sloan of Salt Lake City, and was taken to luncheon at the home of Mrs. Carrie Deleware, President of the Relief Society. At the meeting, Sister Empey found two missionary girls. Miss Phelps from Arizona and Miss Norina Moyes of Salt Lake City. The President reported that the New Haven Relief Society, recently organized, had made only a beginning, and she rejoiced exceedingly in the fact that they were the recipients so soon of a visit from a member of the General Board. Her interest in Relief Society work began with her visit to Ogden, Utah, only a short time ago. She reported her Society as greatly interested in genealogical work. Sister Empey gave instructions on the outlines and general plans of the organization. Several of the sisters present also addressed the meeting. A girl, only sixteen years old — — Miss Laura Deleware is the capable Secretary and Treasurer of this Society. Mrs. Scott, at whose home the meeting was held, is a "Mormon" of the olden times. She was baptized at Kingston, Ontario, Canada, in 1879, by William Seegmiller of Richfield, who came to Kingston at the request of her father-in-law, a member of the Church. For twenty years she did not see an Elder or anyone belonging to the Church, excepting this father-in-law. She then learned that a branch of the Church was located in New York City. After great effort and unusual sacrifice she succeeded in uniting herself with the New York mission. She spoke very lovingly of the Woman's Exponent, which she subscribed for at one time, and which for many years afterward, came to her complimentary from the editor — our own dear President Wells. We left New York for Boston by boat July 11. After the 550 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. intense heat in Baltimore and New York we fully appreciated a cool, moonlight night on the ocean. We landed in Boston Harbor the following morning and hurried on to Lynn, Massachusetts, to fill our Relief Society appointment. The ride on the steam cars by the seaside would have been very pleasant had it not been for the intense heat. This was the hottest day of our whole trip. At 549 Essex Street we found Elders Harold Barnes of the Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake, F. D. McGregor of Beaver, and S. F. Harper of Oakley, Idaho. After a very refreshing repast, served by these dear good boys we went to the home of Mrs. Jennie Hayden where our meeting was to be held. Two Missionary girls from Utah, Miss Annie C. Peterson, President of the Society, and Elizabeth Elder were in attendance. This little parlor meeting, although small, was very interesting and enjoyable. At its close our charming hostess served delicious ice cream, cake, and lemonade. Without knowing how intensely hot the weather was and can be in Lynn, nobody can possibly understand how we appreciated those cooling refreshments. Old Salem, where Nathaniel Hawthorne was born and reared and where he began his career as an American author is located near Lynn. We saw the house where he was born, the old custom house where he wrote the "Scarlet Letter," and many other places of historic interest, including the house where Witches were sentenced and the hill where many of them were put to death. We spent two days in Boston, Lexington and Concord, giving practically all of one day to the New England Genealogical Library. We were intensely interested there, and could have spent weeks with profit and pleasure, browsing among the old books and manuscripts. Our next stop was at South Royalton, Vermont, where we visited the birthplace of the Prophet Joseph Smith, which is nearby. It has been only a few years since the Church purchased the old Smith Farm, and erected a beautiful monument in memory of the Prophet, and the cottage which stands on the exact spot where he was born. Brother and Sister F. L. Brown entertained us while here, taking us to all the places of particular interest. From South Royalton, we went to Montreal, and up the St. Lawrence River to Toronto, Canada. Elders Sumsion, Coons, and Sanders met us at the dock. In Montreal and Toronto, there was every evidence that Canada is at war. We saw hundreds of wounded soldiers, who had returned from the battle fields abroad, and in Toronto, were 50,000 who had been training for months, and who were ready to leave for the front. The locks all the way up the St. Lawrence River were guarded very carefully by English soldiers. Several NOTES FROM OUR SECRETARY AFIELD. 551 attempts have been made to blow them up since the beginning of the war in Europe. Our meeting in Toronto was held at the home of Mrs. Ida Yager, Counselor to President Armena Marr. The other counselor is Marian Ford. The war surroundings made our meeting rather serious, but there was a sweet spirit of love and sympathy that gave comfort and peace to all present. After explaining Relief Society work and the problems connected with it to the Sisters and Elders present, we had a very interesting talk by Sister H. Westmancote, a devoted Church member who joined the Church in early days in England. Sister Westmancote emigrated to Canada many years ago and is probably the oldest living Pioneer "Mormon'' resident of Toronto. When the Relief Society was organized she was made President. She recently resigned and has been replaced by Sister Marr. One of the young members of this Society informed us that her husband has been in France since the beginning of the war. He has been in many battles but she expressed the belief that the faith and prayers of her small children and herself will be answered and that he will be brought back to them safely. We also learned from another member. Sister Yager, that she has three stalwart young nephews fighting on the German side and that their regiment has recently been ordered into the firing line. At Palmyra, New York, we were met by Brother Willard Bean who is in charge of the Smith farm located about six miles from this place. We visited the store in Palmyra in the upper rooms of which the first edition of the Book of Mormon was printed. We also had the privilege of meeting Mr. Pliny T. Sexton, the gentleman who owns the Hill Cumorah and who is very kind and gracious to all visitors who are interested in this historic spot. Mr. Sexton has the first copy of the Book of Mormon that came off the press of Mr. E. B. Grandin, owner of the old printing office. He bought this copy of Mr. Gilbert who operated the press and he prizes it very highly. The copy is unbound, but is placed in a glass frame for preservation. Mr. Sexton is generally regarded as the first citizen of Palmyra. He is a lawyer of repute, Chancellor of the University of New York, and a man who is known in all the country 'round for his philanthropic work. We were particularly interested to learn that Mr. Sexton introduced the first bill in the New York Legislature providing for University extension work. It was also the first bill of the kind to be introduced and passed in America. He is thus in a way the founder of University extension work. After this delightful visit, we were taken by auto out to the Hill Cumorah, and to the Smith farm. The home built by 552 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the Smith Family in 1824 still stands on the old farm, and is in a fairly good state of preservation. The Bean family occupies the home, and has charge of the farm. Mrs. Bean served us with a very delicious dinner made up entirely of products from the farm. Brother Bean took us all about the place, and over to the — sacred grove one of the most beautiful spots that can be imagined. Some of the trees stand 200 feet high. I think we were more impressed with this grove than with any other spot connected with the visit, for it was here that Joseph Smith, as a boy, made his first appeal to Heaven. This completed our visit to the Eastern States Mission. Praise and commendation should be given President Monson and Miss Edward for the earnest and faithful efforts they have put forth to establish so successfully in such a short time the work of the Relief Society in this mission. The splendid foundation work done last year by our own General Board member, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune in this mission should also be mentioned in this connection. Our next stop was at Kirtland, Ohio, where we visited the Kirtland temple, now owned by the reorganized Church. It is much larger than we expected it to be. The view from the top of the temple is one of magnificence, as all the country around LOGAN SQUARE RELIEF SOCIETY, CHICAGO NOTES FROM OUR SECRETARY AFIELD. 553 is exceedingly picturesque. We saw the old "Mormon" cemetery. It is still the only cemetery in Kirtland, and is good-looking and well kept. We saw many of the original "Mormon" homes and the spots where others stood. The house owned by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in which his son Joseph was born, is still standing. It is now used for a store. Across from the temple, Sydney Rigdon's home is also standing. President Ellsworth met us at the station in Chicago and during our stay in his mission he did everything possible to make our visit pleasant. On Sunday the 23rd we attended three meetings, the morning and evening sessions were of a general character, but the afternoon meeting was a joint meeting of the three Chicago branches of the Relief Society — Logan Square, Roseland, and University. In the absence of Sister Mary Smith Ellsworth who has charge of the Relief Society in the Northern States, President Ellsworth presided at this meeting. There were about one hundred in attendance and notwithstanding the heat and humidity, the audience was evidently very much interested in the proceedings. The mission was reported by Miss Redd, a missionary girl from Canada, and a daughter of Mrs. Varona Redd, Secretary of the Taylor stake. The Logan Square was reported by President Emma Cregor the Roseland Branch, by the Secretary, Mrs. Eva; Devries and the Chicago, by Miss Sterling. ; President Ellsworth gave a very inspiring and encouraging address, in which he commended the members for their devotion to the work and expressed his great appreciation for the service done by the Relief Society in the Northern States Mission. The General Board visitors addressed the meeting on the history and organization of the Relief Society, its activities and course of study. From the reports given, we learned that the various branches of this Mission are in splendid working condition. They have taken up the prescribed work in the outlines, excepting the lessons in Home Economics. In place of this course, they have substituted specially prepared lessons on the subject of Prayer. They have considered the Lord's Prayer. Blessings on the Sacrament, the Benefits of Administration in Times of Sickness. Importance of Family Prayer, and the Blessing on the Food, etc., etc. The Mission has made a special effort along the lines of general work. Since January 1, 1916. the combined branches have sent 787 names to the Temple, placed 60 Temple records and 87 family records. Some of the young members of the Chicago branches are working in the Newbury Genealogical Library, regularly, for the purpose of collecting and arranging data in their family records. 554 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. A very interesting feature of the work in this Mission has been the activity of the members in distributing literature. It was suggested to them by Sister Ellsworth, that all the members of the Society, after reading tracts, magazines, and books, pass them on to their friends, in order that as many as possible might read them. Since the 1st of January, the Relief Society members have given out 3,611 magazines and books. Other interesting features of this report, for the six months, are: Paid for charity $ 426.19 Hours spent in charity work 33.93 Visits to sick... - 1,622 Gospel conversations 3,073 Assistance to missionaries 323.60 The music at this conference was especially good. At the morning session, it was furnished by the choir from Milwaukee, which was led by a very talented and capable German brother. Many other special numbers, including a zither solo by a Relief Society sister, were also much appreciated. It was a great disappointment to the Relief Society members, and to the visitors from the General Board that the President — Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth was too ill to attend the conference. Mrs. Ellsworth has been so energetic in her labors that her zeal has exceeded her strength, and she has been forced to give up, temporarily, everything connected with her work. We all feel sure, however, that with care and rest she will make a good recovery, and be able to continue her efforts in her chosen work. In spite of her illness. Sister Ellsworth insisted that we take dinner at the Mission House, which we enjoyed very much. We also had a short visit with her. July 24th, Sister Hyde and I visited the Milwaukee Relief Society, leaving Sister Empey and the Smith girls in Chicago, where they attended special exercises which were given in Commemoration of Utah Pioneer day. The boat ride across beautiful Lake Michigan was a feature of the trip. Brother N. C. Poulsen of Richfield, and two companions took us to the beautiful little L. D. S. Church where our services were held. It is a very cozy building with a full basement containing a kitchen and other rooms which are used by the elders as sleeping apartments. There were sixty-nine present at our meeting including a number of very bright boys and girls. In Milwaukee there are two Relief Societies, one English, the other German. The President of the English Society is Mrs. Emily Wittie, and of the German, Mrs. Margaret Schmidt. Both these sisters are energetic, capable, and enthusiastic workers, and NOTES FROM OUR SECRETARY AFIELD. 555 have succeeded in bringing their societies up to a high standard, as the reports indicated. In the English Society, there are 15 members enrolled, and in the German, 12. The members of the English Society have, in the last six months, distributed 117 books and tracts, and those in the German Society, 460, making in all 577. Weekly meetings are held in both branches. Miss Jessie Wintch, a missionary girl from Manti, has been very helpful to the German Society, as she speaks their language fluently. These sisters regret very much that she will soon be compelled to leave them to return to Utah. The secretary of the German Relief Society, a very energetic young woman, informed us that she had learned to speak the English language by associating with Relief Society officers and workers. At the close of the meeting, the sisters served delicious refreshments and a very interesting social hour was spent. During our stay in Chicago, we visited the Newbury Genealogical Library which is well supplied with a variety of books. The information is so accessible that the amateur genealogist is soon able to make headway in research work. On the way from Chicago to Independence, we stopped at Nauvoo and St. Louis. Our visit to Nauvoo was most interesting and instructive. We rode across the Mississippi River from Montrose to Nauvoo on a little ferry boat, which is used to transfer hay, coal, live-stock, freight and passengers. We proceeded at once to the Oriental Hotel, where the proprietor — Mr. Wm. C. Reimbold— received us very courteously, and spent a great deal of the forenoon in showing us manuscripts, relics, and articles of furniture which had belonged to the old "Mormon" settlers. Among these things we saw the andirons and crane that belonged to President Brigham Young, dishes that had belonged to different families, and furniture that was owned by the Prophet Joseph Smith. In a bedroom was a four-poster walnut bed, a mahogany dresser and washstand. In the parlor were several pieces including a rocking chair and a parlor table. All of these pieces were in excellent condition. They were handmade and once belonged to the Prophet. In a ride about Nauvoo we saw the old temple site and many homes of the early "Mormons" which are very commodious, good looking and fairly well preserved. Those of Presidents Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and Wilford Woodruff seemed to be in very good condition. Naturally we were especially interested in the old Masonic Hall where the organization of the Relief Society took place in 1842. We pictured this gathering of only eighteen members in the upper room of this building and wondered if they, or even the 556 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. founder, himself, comprehended the magnitude of the movement thus begun in the interest of women. In the afternoon of this day we visited Carthage which is twelve miles from Nauvoo. The old jail looked somber and grey. We saw the bullet hole in the door and the blood stain on the floor, and were sick at heart when we thought of the terrible tragedy which occurred there so many years ago. INDEPENDENCE, MO., RELIEF SOCIETY Our next stop was at St. Louis where we were met by Brother S. O. Bennion, of Independence, Mo., the genial president of the Central States Mission. Fifty-two people were present at the evening meeting we held here, twenty-one of whom were Relief Society members. We met a great many missionary boys and girls, who were all earnest and devoted workers. The Relief Society members in St. Louis are united and enthusiastic in their work. Mrs. Fannie L. Thurman is the President and Mrs. Mabel Du Pont, secretary. After the service we spent half an hour visiting, and left on the 10:30 p. m. train for Kansas City. We all regretted the absence of Sister Bennion who was in Utah, during our visit to the Central States. As president of the Relief Societies in this Mission she has made a great success of her work. NOTES FROM OUR SECRETARY AFIELD. 557 President Bennion arranged a most delightful automobile ride for us from Kansas City to Independence, and at the mission house he gave us full possession and a most hearty welcome. Only those who know President Bennion can appreciate his kindly, generous nature, and his genial good humor. We visited many places of historic interest in the neighborhood of Independence, including Richmond and Liberty. At Richmond we visited the old "Mormon" cemetery, where the Church has recently erected a monument in memory of Oliver Cowdery, who is buried there. We saw the home of David Whitmer, his grave in the City Cemetery, also the site where the old Richmond jail stood. It was in this jail that the Prophet Joseph and the Patriarch Hyrum Smith were imprisoned all one winter. We also visited the site of the Liberty Jail, the basement of which remains as it was at the time Joseph and Hyrum Smith and Parley P. Pratt were imprisoned in it. They spent many months in this dark and dingy cellar place, and it was here an attempt was made to feed them human flesh. The upper story of this building has been torn down, and a comparatively modern dwelling house built on the old foundation. The residents of the house very kindly allowed us to enter the basement and view the premises. On Saturday afternoon, at the call of President Bennion, the officers of the Relief Society visited us at the Mission house for the purpose of discussing the details of Relief Society work. On Sunday forenoon we attended the Latter-day Saints Sunday School, visited the Reorganized Church and also the Hedrickite Church. The building in which the Hedrickite Church holds services is located on the old "Mormon" Temple block. In the afternoon, we held a Relief Society meeting in the Independence Chapel, which was a conjoint session of the Independence and Kansas City branches. Brother Bennion presided at this meeting, and spoke very enthusiastically on the blessings and benefits of Relief Society work in general, and particularly in the mission field. The remainder of the time was given to the visitors of the General Board. The president of the Independence Relief Society is Sister Annie Tuckfield, and of the Kansas City branch, Mrs. Annie Cook. There are several sisters here who were former residents of Utah, and who are, therefore, well equipped for assisting in carrying on the work. Among them are Sister McRae and Sister Thurman —the latter a daughter of the late Bishop Evans, of Lehi, Utah. Our final stop was at Denver, Colorado, where we were met by President and Mrs. Herrick of the Western States Mission. We were driven to the Mission House, where we were heartily 558 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. welcomed, and where we partook of a delicious luncheon, and held a very enjoyable meeting. Because of the fact that Sister Herrick has recently been appointed President of the Relief Society in the Western States Mission, she has resigned as President of the Denver Society, and on the day of our visit, the Denver branch was reorganized with the following officers President: Mrs. Nellie B. Foot 1st Counselor, Louie A. Call 2nd Counselor, Miss Ann Snow; Secretary; Miss Winnifred P. Hill; Treasurer, Mrs. Ella T. Smith; Chorister. Miss Pauline Christensen. DENVER RELIEF SOCIETY Mrs. Herrick presided at the meeting and gave a report of the Mission. We then heard from the new officers, who expressed themselves as deeply interested in the work. Instructions were given to the new officers, on the objects and aims of the Society, and on the work as outlined at headquarters. I cannot close without expressing my admiration for and appreciation of our missionaries, both the young men and the young women. They seemed to us to stand in a class by themselves as earnest, conscientious, fearless, and unselfish workers for the benefit of mankind. If the fathers and mothers of these young people could see them as we did. in the active discharge of their duties, they would feel proud and well repaid for all the sacrifices and struggles it takes to support them in this work, and to be separated from them. Home Economics Agronomy Roberts Hall Dairy THE CENTRAL GROUP OF BUILDINGS OF THE NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE. Home Scientists in Convention. By Janette A. Hyde. The visit of the Utah party to the Home Economics convention, at Cornell University Ithaca, New York, held June 28, to July 2, 1916, was both profitable and pleasurable. The association with women of keen intellectual force, united with trained executive ability was in itself, an education. The mental equipment of these superior women has been focused for the past decade and more on home problems and scientific adjustment of domestic labors. The program easily indicates the class of work done by this splendid convention PROGRAM OF THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. CORNELL UNIVERSITY, ITHACA, NEW YORK. JUNE 28- JULY 2, 1916. — June 28, Section Programs Extension Science Institution, — June 29 July 2, General Program. PROGRAM FOR SECTIONS, Institution Section, Wednesday, June 28, 9:30 a. m.. Room 245. Chairman — Sarah Louise Arnold, Dean of Simmons College, Boston; Secretary, Emma Gunther, Teacher's College, New York City, 560 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. — Students' food Service at a dormitory table, Elizabeth Goodrich, Simmons College, Boston. Psychology of dainty food for students, Bertha Shapleigh, Teacher's College, Columbia University, New York City. — Discussion Problem connected with students' food Lead- ; er: Isabel Ely Lord, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, Aided by: Alice Loomis, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Anne D. Biltz, Dean of Women, William Smith College, Geneva, Mary Uri Watson, McDonald Institute, Guelph, Canada. Organization of service in a new cafeteria, Blanche Geary, Accounts and Finance, Y. W. C. A., New York City. Wednesday, 8:00 p. m. — Chairman William Morse Cole, School of Business Administration, Harvard University. Survey of sanitary conditions in institutions, Dr, C. E. A. Winslow, Anna Lauder, Professor, School of Medicine, Yale. Studies on labor problems in institutions, Henriette Roelofs-University household employment commission. New York City. ROUND TABLES AND CONFERENCES. Cafeteria Management — Wednesday, 2:00 p. m. — Chairman of committee Anna Hunn, Cornell University; Presiding chairman, Elizabeth Goodrich, Simmons College. The cafeteria of Curtis Publishing Company, Philadelphia Anna M. East, The Ladies Home Journal, Philadelphia. A discussion will follow.on problems related to cafeteria management, and these conferences will continue on the succeeding days. Laundry Management —Wednesday, 3:00 p. m. Chairman of committee — L. R. Balderston, Teachers College. Columbia University. A study of laundry costs, L. R. Balderston. Dietitians — Wednesday, (Time to be arranged.) — Chairman Alice P. Atwood, John Hopkins, Baltimore. Report of chairman, followed by discussion Note Chairmen of committees on housekeeping supplies, : per capita costs, and waste, will plan round tables and conferences. HOME SCIENTISTS IN CONVENTION. 561. EXTENSION SECTION. Wednesday, June 28, 9:30 a. m., Room 100. — Chairman Gertrude McCheyne, University of Utah, Laura Comstock, presiding. The purpose of the extension section: Laura Comstock, Massachusetts Agricultural College. Reports of committees: Relation of extension staff to the University department, Mamie Bunch, University of Illinois. Courses of instruction for extension workers, Elizabeth Veley, University of Wisconsin. How we conduct the work in Florida, Agnes Ellen Harris, State University, Tallahassee, Florida. Financing the home demonstration work. D. W. Working, U. S. Dept., Agriculture, The county agent, Junior Extension. Wednesday, 2:00 p. m.. Room 100. Business meeting: Discussion of work accomplished by committees Plans for new work Election of officers. ; ; SCIENCE SECTION. Wednesday, June 28. 9:30 a. m., Room 300. Chairman —Ruth Wheeler, University of Illinois. The digestibility of starch as affected by various processes of cookery. Amy Louise Daniels, University of Wisconsin. Practical ways of increasing the iron content of the diet, Caroline L. Hunt Office of Nutrition Investigation, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. Standardization of cooking temperature, Louise Stanley, University of Missouri. Recent contributions to knowledge of mineral metabolism, Grace McLeod, Pratt Institute. The new dietetic treatment of diabetes mellitus, Lenna F. Cooper, Battle Creek, Michigan. Recent contributions of bacteriology to the home, Josephine Kerr Allison, Urbana, Illinois. Creatin and creatinin in excretion, Emma B. Wagner, University of Missouri. Co-operation between the Home Economics Department and the hospital, Ruth Wardall, Iowa State University. Note: The papers will be short enough to leave time for full discussion, and it is hoped that all members of the section will come prepared to take part in the discussion of at least one paper. 562 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. GENERAL PROGRAM, ROOM 245. Thursday, June 29. 7:45 a. m. Meeting.of executive council in the Home Economics Building. 9:30 a. m. Convenient kitchens (Stereopticon) Helen Binkerd Young, Department of Home Economics, Cornell University. Discussion. 10:00 a. m. Practice houses for students in Home Economics, Isabel Ely Lord, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn. Discussion 11:00 a. m. The housing problem, Lawrence Veiller, Sec'y. National Housing Association, New York City. Discussion 12:30 p. m. Old-fashioned singing school, led by Sarah Buchanan Huff, New York City. All members of the conference are asked to join 2:00 p. m. Conference on health. Dr. C. E. A. Winslow, School of Medicine, Yale University. Relation of Home Economics education to social hygiene. Dr. William F. Snow, General Secretary American Social Hygiene Association, New York City. 3:30 p. m. Auto parties, picnics and walking trips to nearby lakes, gorges, glens and falls, will be arranged. 8:00 p. m. Short addresses: Trained women to earn a national movement, ; Alvin E. Dodd, Secretary National Society for the promotion of Industrial Education, New York City. Note Several association visitors will be in- : troduced. 9:30 p. m. Informal reception on the roof garden to members of the conference. Friday, June 30. 9:30 a. m. Report: Committee on textiles. Medium priced linens for institution and home, Mary Schenck Woolman, Specialist in vocational educational, Boston National Society for the promotion of Industrial Education. The teaching of sewing, Celestine Schmit. Department of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin. HOME SCIENTISTS IN CONVENTION. 563 Standardization of women's clothing, Ethel Rondoni, University of Missouri. 11:15 a. m. Chemistry and cooking, Wilder D. Bancroft. Department of Chemistry, Cornell University. 11:45 a. m. Calorimeter experiments, Dr. Eugene F. DuBois, Bellevue Hospital, New York. 12:30 p. m. Old-fashioned singing school, led by Sara Buchanan Huff. 2:00 p. m. Conference on elementary education in Home Economics, Martha French, Chairman, State Normal College, Ypsilanti, Mich. Home economics equipment. Adelaide Laura Van Duzer, Cleveland Public Schools, Ada Z. Fish, William Penn High School. 2:00 p. m. Conference of administrative workers, Josephine Berry, Chairman University of Minnesota. ; Conference, Social work in Home Economics, Emma A. Winslow, Chairman. 3:30 p. m. Auto parties, picnics and walking trips to nearby lakes, gorges, glens and falls will be arranged. 8:00 p. m. Omelet and Oatmelia. a travesty given by students in the Department of Home Economics. Cornell University, Bailey Hall. Note: A charge of thirty-five and fifty cents will be made for this entertainment, and the proceeds will be devoted to the Ellen H. Richards memorial fund. PROGRAM OF THE COMMITTEE OF FIFTY FOR JOURNALISM. Saturday, July 1, 9:30 a. m., Room 245. Chairman —Anna Merritt East, Ladies' Home Journal, Mary Hinman Abel, Presiding. Training the pen to keep step with the laboratory, Alice P. Norton. Editor of the Journal of Home Economics. The Editor's blue pencil, Anna Barrows. Teachers' College, Columbia University, Jessamine Chapman Williams. University of Arizona. — Our writing laboratory the papers, Harry R. O'Brien. Assistant Professor of Journalism, Iowa State College of Agriculture. Ames, Iowa. Where the camera and the pen have each a share food ad- — Author. vertising, Marion Harris Neil, Why the business world needs experts who can write. Grace R. Wilmot, Interior Decorator, New York City. How Uncle Sam writes, C. F. Langworthy, Office of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture. 564. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Writing your own press notices, Mamie Bunch, Extension Department, University of Illinois. Charting your way, O. H. Benson, in Charge Boys' and Girls' Work, N. and W., United States Department of Agriculture. Balancing menus for print, Lenna Frances Cooper, Head Dietitian, Battle Creek Sanatorium. Filling the gap — How to cover the distance between the domestic science expert and the editor, Edward W. Bok, Editor Ladies' Home Journal, Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois. Arthur T. Vance, Editor The Pictorial Review, Marie Sellers, Home Department Editor, The Country Gentleman, Catherine MacKay, Iowa State College of Agriculture, James Tower. Managing Editor The Designer, Janet McKenzie Hill, Editor The American Cookery, Mildred Maddocks, Good Housekeeping Institute. Homemaking clubs developed through a farm journal, Mrs. W. N. Hutt, Editor Home Circle Department, The Progressive Farmer. Planning my magazine, Leonarda Goss, Editor The Farmer's Wife, St. Paul, Minnesota Helping farm homemakers to study their business, Harriet Mason, Associate Editor, The Ohio Farmer. The possibilities of a woman's page in the daily newspapers, Eva Von Bauer Hansel, Editor woman's page, New York Evening Sun. What the Sunday papers want, Mary Avery, Editor woman's page, Sunday Public Ledger, Philadelphia. Passing it on through the daily papers, Lilla Erich, Supervisor Domestic Science, Minneapolis Public Schools. Writing for the family of low-cost standards, Florence Nesbit. Field Supervisor, Juvenile Court, Chicago. Printing in response to requests, Elizabeth McCracken, Editor of Home Progress, Boston, Mass. A newspapers column for ten weeks, and what came of it, Mrs. R. J. Deachman, President Calgary Canada, Consumers' League. 12:30 p. Old fashioned singing school, led by Sarah Buchanan Huff. — Moving pictures An Indian Pageant as presented by students in the New York State College of Agriculture. Business meeting, committee reports and election of officers. Room 245, polls open eight to twelve. Auto parties, picnics, and walking trips to nearby lakes, groves, glens and falls will be arranged. — Conference The budget. Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews, Chairman, Teachers' College, New York City. HOME SCIENTISTS IN CONVENTION. 565 Cost of living of college students, Sarah MacLeod, Pratt Institute,, S. Maria Elliott, Simmons College. The clothing budget; Ethel Ronzoni, University of Missouri. Studies of families in narrow circumstances, Winnifred Gibbs, Secretary Association for improving conditions of the poor. New York City. Budget studies, Mary Hinman Abel, Baltimore, Maryland. Sunday, July 2. 9:00 a. m. Breakfast in the woods on the shores of Beebe Lake. 3:00 p. m. Community meeting —The home and the community, Cornell University, Music led by Sarah Buchanan Huff. 6:30 p. m. Group meeting at supper in the Home Economics cafeteria. OFFICERS OF THE ASSOCIATION. President, Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University. Vice-Presidents, Marion Talbot, University of Chicago Benjamin R. Andrews, Teachers Col- ; lege; Abby L. Marlatt, University of Wisconsin. Secretary, Alice P. Norton, Chicago. Treasurer, William Morse Cole, Harvard University. The problem which marked the early sessions of the convention was the inadequacy of the modern methods for reaching the woman in the city and the woman in the country. The text books and teachers in home science have cut their cloth to fit only the well-to-do house-wife in urban communities. The primitive environment and severe domestic limitations of the home-maker on the farm, has not been taken into account by the framers of institute curricula. Much crisp discussion and some enlightening suggestions were made along these lines at the convention. It was decided that school plans were too elaborate for the ordinary woman of today, while the usual run of recipes given by the teachers were both too expensive and too complicated. Novelty has been emphasized at the expense of practicability. In the sessions devoted to the value of press work as a part of home science teaching, there were such renowned names as: 566 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Alice P. Norton, Editor of the Journal of Home Economics; Anna Barrows; Edward W. Bok, the famous Editor of the Ladies' Home Journal, Arthur T. Vance, Editor Pictorial Review, Mary Avery, Elizabeth McCracken, Grace R. Wilmot while — the whole session was presided over by the famous Mary Hinman Abel. The prevailing note of this session was the practical inability of graduated home science teachers to give written expression to practical thought on paper, concerning their own chosen profession. It was urged that pupils shall not only be taught how to compose a pudding and how to build a menu, they must also learn how to dictate a business letter and how to write a newspaper article, which will reach the masses. Another impressive topic, and one which I felt of paramount importance to us and our home conditions, was the need of regulating women's costumes. The speaker who dealt with this topic emphasized the necessity for standardizing the business costume of business women. Such style modifications as might occur through the passing seasons should not exceed the changes made in the business apparel of men. Another excellent suggestion was that women and girls everywhere should be made to feel the folly of wearing afternoon or evening costumes on the street, or entering a drawing-room in a business suit, when possible to avoid doing so. Still another suggestion, which was also wisely made, dealt with the combined efforts to standardize dress-cutting systems. Hundreds of women are wasting thousands of dollars in buying and selling inadequate and unsightly systems of dress-cutting and pattern-making. The schools can practically handle the situation if a united effort is made to use a universal system throughout the United States. In dealing with the food question, the school luncheon was taken up, but the most helpful thought given in this session, for our people here at home, was the story of an exchange depot conducted in Florida, and so managed that the women could bring their handiwork, and receive in exchange fruit preserved and dried in various ways by other women also bread and other food; stuffs were kept by this exchange for the convenience and use of their patrons. Home canning clubs were recommended and described. We shall have more to say about this later on, in our Home Science Department. There was an attendance of nearly three hundred active, interested women including social settlement workers, teachers and journalists. Not only were the general sessions crowded, but each group meeting was both attractive and well attended. This subject of Home Science, which a few years ago had — — but two sides sewing and cooking is now sub-divided into many important and differing phases of the work. Interspersed with the many interesting meetings were excursions to scenes adjacent to Cornell University. The breakfast which was given on Sunday morning in the woods, was served cafeteria fashion, a decided innovation in however, picnics. None of the Utah party attended this affair, preferring to rest and attended services on the Sabbath day. The little playlet "Omelet and Oatmelia," was a delightful feature offered for the benefit of the Richards Memorial fund and earned a substantial contribution to that laudable enterprise The visit to the "George Junior Republic" was the most impressive of all the entertainment offered to us. This remarkable experiment in community life for young boys and girls certainly brought to our minds the possibilities of the United Order, when this people shall be ready to adopt that divine plan. The boys and girls are taken from all grades of life-from the richest families and from city slums, incorrigible boys and girls, idle boys Good boys, mischievous boys, as well as homeless boys are all helped, modified and wisely taught in this George Junior Republic. One of the most interesting phases of the whole convention was the old fashioned singing school. The songs were the old, popular ballads of half a century ago, and the music and words were thrown on a picture screen, enabling everyone in the vast audience to see notes and words at a glance, The songs were illustrated on the screen with suggestive scenes, for instance,— "My Old Kentucky Home," and "Old Black Joe," had a picture of the cabin under the trees. The flag and the darkies picking cotton was accompanied by a huge flag waving in the "Flag Without a Stain" feature. In addition to this attractive and novel feature, the leader of the class, Sarah Buchanan Huff, was dressed in old fashioned costume. Her assistant, likewise, being robed in the flowing skirts of 1830 I was much impressed with this and hope to see some results at home from the suggestions made there. The hospitality of Cornell was generous in the extreme and the committee who had charge of the entertainment, acquitted themselves with honor to themselves and delight to all the guests and delegates. The officers of the Association were continued with Miss Van Rensselaer as President until a new election can be effected. In the election for a Chairman of the Extension Work Committee,I was happy to cast my vote for our Utah Domestic Science expert, Miss Gertrude McCheyne, although she was unable to be present herself. While our party was in this beautiful city, we were house guests, for the whole five days, of Dr. Earnest W. Schoeder, Professor in charge of the famous Hydraulic Laboratory of Cornell University He, with Mrs. Cummings and her daughter, Elma, 568 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. extended to us the most cordial hospitality. Their auto was at our disposal night and day, and any time, we were left free from our many engagements, was used by our generous hosts in private entertainment. Dr. Schoeder is a close, personal friend of Professor Richard R. Lyman of this City. They worked side by side for several years in the graduate school of Cornell University. MAIN QUADRANGLE OF CORNELL UNIVERSITY With Cayuga Lake in Distance. We were also entertained at dinner at the home of Professor and Mrs. C. L. Crandall. Professor Crandall was, until his retirement one year ago, under the Carnegie Foundation, Professor of Railroad Engineering at Cornell University. While in Ann Arbor, Michigan, Professor C. T. Johnston, of the University of Michigan, with Mrs. Johnston, took us for a long automobile ride, and arranged a delightful evening for us at their hospitable home. Professor Johnston is another friend of Professor Lyman's they have been classmates during under- graduate days at the University of Michigan. NOTICE Stake Presidents will kindly confer with Magazine agents before coming to October Conference, and bring as large lists as possible for our coming year's subscription. New blanks and receipt books will be supplied at this office. Janette a. Hyde, Business Manager. The Prince of Ur CONCLUDED. Homespun. The morning sun was rising through a dense fog of smoke and gloom upon a weird and devasting sight. The city of Ur lay in partial ruins the Ziggarut itself was a smoking pile of; confusion and disaster. None in the encampment of the Prince of Ur, far down below the city had slept during the fateful hours. The old Petesi Terah sat in his tent door in the dim morning light, too stricken with grief and remorse to rally his own facilities, much less to assume direction of the coming pilgrimage. The spot chosen for the encampment was in the lovely grove of date-palms which belonged to the Princess Sarai in her own right. The pilgrims were too far away to hear the groans and cries which rent the heavens from every quarter of the stricken city, but they could begin to see, when they turned their eyes thitherward the cloud of smoke and rising dust lit now and then with smouldering flames as a result of the tremendous shock which had destroyed the temple of Ur. Hundreds of frightened and watching people moved in and out of the one city gate left standing, trying to remove the injured and dying from the debris of the city into the cooling shade of surroimding groves and plantations. To all of the horrors and suffering the Petesi was deaf. His own soul was crushed by the certainty of his share in the terrible calamity sent by the Divine Avenger upon the apostate city of Ur. Abram on his arrival from the Ziggarut was greeted with solemn rejoicing, and he at once assumed direction of the removal of the whole encampment. He approached his father's presence with the deference due an oriental father. "How rests the heart of my gracious father upon the altar of his soul? Let not thy face be hidden from thy loyal children. Arise, O, my father and set thy face to the north. I have this day mapped out our course of travel. The camels are loaded the herds and the flocks will soon be upon their way while thine and Sarai's tent remaineth for immediate packing. Ellasar shall be our first resting place. From there by easy journey we shall remove to Erech, going next to Calneh and then beyond, far beyond to Borsippa. There we rest as thou knowest in sight of Babylon itself. We shall not linger, please God, near this great and wicked city. Passing it by we shall also dwell shortly at Cutha. Sippara next will claim our caravan. Nehor would linger in Haron and so we may, for Padan-Aram hath many 570 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. pastures where our flocks and herds may rest in peace. Dost approve this plan?" "Thy journeyings shall be taken according to thy will," said the broken old man. "My spirit is stricken and I am desolate. The Lord hath cast off the altar, He hath abhorred the sanctuary of the heathen He hath stretched out a line He hath not with; ; drawn his hand from destroying. Therefore He hath made the rampart and the wall to lament. They languish together. Her gates are sunk into the ground. He hath destroyed and broken her bars. The king and her princes bite the dust. My eyes do fail with tears my bowels are troubled because the children; swoon in the streets of the city. His prophets hath seen vain and foolish things for thee, O Ur of Chaldee. He hath discovered thine iniquity and hath not turned r.way thy destruction. All that pass by clap their hands at thee. They hiss and wag their hea'ls at the beautiful city. They hiss and gnash their teeth. They say This is the day that we looked for. The Lord: hath fulfilled His word. He hath thrown down and hath not pitied This is the lament of the prince and power of Ur.' The old man's voice pierced the very marrow of Prince Abram and the rough sheiks who bowed in the earth and threw dust upon their heads, groaning in bitter responses to the deep intonations of the old Petesi. As the old man ceased his mourning Abram arose and looking southward besought his aged father to cast his eyes over the preparations that were making. All of the substance of the camp was heaped high upon the backs of hundreds of kneeling camels. Slaves stool by their animals ready to prod them forward the moment the word was given to move on. Around the camels were grouped flocks of sheep and goats, while the asses stood stolid and immovable ber.eath the towering forms of the camels. The multitude was so large that 400 trained soldiers upon their dancing Arabian ponies waited to take up the line of march at the head of the column. Abram had cast aside his scholarly raiment and had donned the usual sheik's cloak of brilliant scarlet, his loose handkerchief bound by a fillet of rope about his head while he held his spear in his hand. "I am content," sighed the old Petesi, "to leave this desolate city and to accept thy leadership into the distant Canaan where God hath promised thee inheritance." Abram left the Petesi under the charge of Lot while he h-mself hurried towards the tent of Sarai. Here the princess, clothed in the thin shirt of the Arab woman over which she had laid a coarse striped cloak, had stood all night directing the labors of her hundreds of servingwomen. About her beautiful head she had thrown a common black kerchief which she had twisted loosely about her temples with a rope of camel's hair. Most of THE PRINCE OF UR. 571 her jewels were put away, but her neck was still encircled with a gorgeous Assyrian necklace which had flashing jewels, with coral and sacred cylinders of engraved scriptures all intertwined in one great dazzling array. Earrings of gold ornamented with turquoise hung from beneath the kerchief and she looked as indeed she was prepared to be, a genuine chill of the desert, ready to take her place beside her fleeing lord clothed in the simple raiment of the Bedouin queen. Between the center poles of her huge tent lay the large goat hair sacks of rice, corn, barley, and the other household stufifs from which the great encampment would take their early meal before the sun had traveled an hour in heated glory on the eastern horizon. Her gorgeous carpets and cushions were piled outside the Around her, squatting on the tent awaiting final distribution. ground or hurrying to and fro were the hundreds of handmaidens cleaning the wide caldrons, gathering up the iron plates upon which they had baked their bread over the ashes, and some were still shaking the skins, suspended from the stakes and filled with milk which would thus churn the butter for the coming march. Every supply had passed through Sarai's own hands that night and she knew exactly the amount that would feed her multitude from day to day. As Abram approached the tent and asked for his bride, her tiring maiden pointed to the tent whose door was now let down. The prince lifted the curtain and stood within the inclosure. His heart stopped beating as he saw her bending over her last bale of stuffs to be sure of their fastenings. Instantly she arose and with a -sobbing cry flung herself upon his bosom. — "Alive Alive!" she sobbed without restraint. Then "thou! art here with us, and O Abram, what may I do, what can I say in gratitude and love to thee and to our great Creator, Yehweh, for thy deliverance and safety.” Abram's soul was moved by the touching simplicity and humility of this resplendent woman who had voluntarily cast off lier luxurious trappings and clothed herself in the coarse, common garb of a princess of the plains. No greater gift than her willing choice could be offered. He touched with quivering hands, the flowing black kerchief which hid the glory of her hair and pressed her arms close to her side, clad as they w'ere in the rough raiment which she had chosen. "Behold, thou art fair, my love. Behold, thou art fair. Thou hast dove's eyes, my love. Thy cheeks are comely with rows.of jewels; thy neck with chains of gold and a temple of myrrh is my well beloved unto me. Our bed shall be green. The 572 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. beams of our house shall be cedar and the rafters of fir.As the lilyamong the thorns, so is my love among the daughters." Without the tent there arose the cry of the plainsmen who had now come to complete the loading of the camels and to strike the great tent of the Princess Sarai. Abram drew her without and greeted his men with affectionate candor. Out of the chaos he had soon brought order, out of confusion had come adjustment. Each man knew his place and every tent-pin would be accounted for. The beast which he had chosen for Sarai to ride was a young white camel of the utmost swiftness and gentleness. In the palanquin where she was to sit he had placed perfumes and flowers. As they stood examining the completeness of Abram's arrangement, Lot rode by upon his mottled charger. "Art thou so busied, kinsman, with thine own affairs that thou canst find no time to see my own lovely bride?" As Lot spoke Irit peeped beneath his arm, for he had partially concealed her behind him and she cried out saucily and maliciously "Thou hast not the happiness in this life, Abram, nor all shaltv thou take to thyselfall the glory for the next. Behold, Lot is also a captain and a leader." "Nay, kinswoman. Lot is the better man and give me but his friendship and I shall ask nothing more of him nor of thee." The jealous witch who cuddled closer to Lot at this sally, still found time and voice to purr contentedly "All the valley of the Euphrates is before both thee and him. It is only the future that may tell who shall rule and who shall obey." "Nay, Irit, restrain thy petty speech," said Lot softly over lits shoulder, "and put forth all thy charm to soothe the mourners for there is sorrow all about us, and although our own hearts are filled with solemn joy just here and now, we cannot cross words or allow bantering sallies on such a barren field as this. The Frince Abram is my leader and my staff. On him I lean and so shalt thou,if thou leanest on me." Whilst this parley was going on Sarai stood beside her camel looking back at the smoking ruins of the beautiful city of Ur, with hands tensely clasped and tears streaming downi her sad face. "O Iscah, Iscah, where is thy soul this day? Pleasure for an hour, and then darkness forever. Be merciful, great Creator of heaven and earth to thy erring daughter and grant her swift!" repentance even in thy paradise, where her soul hath fled Two hours later the great caravan was on its way, winding across the dusty plain, slowly, because of the flocks and herds and the women and children, some of whom were walking in the THE PRINCE OF UR. 573 ankle-deep soil of the heavily traveled paths. There was little rejoicing on this outward trip, for nearly all of these travelers had left some cherished loved one behind in the smoking city of Ur. awaiting burial in that common funeral pyre. The Prince Abram rode for hours silent and heavy with emotion at the head of his great cavalcade. The hundreds and thousands of men and women, herds and cattle, camels and dogs trailing solemnly after, in mute sympathy, respected his solemn meditation. “I am a Syrian, and a stranger. I am now but a wanderer. I have seen violence and strife in the city. O, that I had wings like a dove for then would I fly away and be at rest. As a bird that wandereth from his nest, so is a man that wandereth from his place. Yet, shall I wander far ofif and remain in the wilderness. Be merciful unto me, oh, God, be merciful unto me, for my soul draweth to thee, yea, in the shadow of thy wings will 1 make my refuge, will I make my refuge. Be thou exalted. O God. above the heavens. Let thy glory be above all the earth. Remember thy servant O Lord, and forget not the hosts that are with him. Be thou exalted above the hills!" And thus the household of Terah, Petesi of Ur, with Abram. Prince of Ur, took up their journeyings. And the promise was to Abraham and to his seed after him! For of all the earth he alone remembered the Lord God, and him only did he serve THE END. SEMI-ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society will be held on Wednesday and Thursday, October 4 and 5, 1916. Two public sessions will be held on Wednesady, in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, commencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. All who are interested in Relief Society work are invited to be in attendance at these two sessions. On Thursday, October 5. two meetings will be held for officers, in the Auditorium on the fourth floor of the Bishop's Building, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. Detailed problems connected with Relief Society work will be discussed. One session will be devoted to a teachers' convention.All officers and official represenlatives are expected to be in attendance at these meetings. Emmeline B. Wells, President. Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor. JuLiNA L. Smith, Second Counselor. — Mothers in Israel, Autobiographical Sketch of Mary Ann Stearns Winters. [We continue this month the charming child-classic written by one who not only passed through the beautiful and terrible scenes in Kirtland, Nauvoo, and Winter Quarters, but who also remembered keenly her childlike impressions of those striking events. We present some pictures of the author's birth-place in Bethel, Maine, but her word pictures of conditions in Nauvoo, given in this and the following articles, scarcely need embellishment. We hope our readers will enjoy this recital with us. Editor.] returning from ENGLAND. January 1, 1843, we were on board the ship going from the mouth of the Mississippi up to New Orleans. The weather was delightful — oranges were on the trees, cotton was still in the fields. The captain of the pilot boat invited our captain, and Mr. Pratt and family, to take New Year's dinner with them on the pilot. Mother not being able to go, and the little boys and Oliver not quite recovered from the measles, Mr. Pratt, Aunt Olive and myselfwere all that could accept the invitation. — We had a fine dinner a great treat to us after being on the ship ten weeks — and a sailing vessel at that, as no steamer had ever crossed the ocean at that time. They treated us very cordially —sent nice fruits to mother and the children, with fine sliced apples with sugar and brandy. This was declined at first, but had to be taken in order not to ofifend our entertainers. Our journey up the river was a very pleasing experience. The rolling of the billows was a thing of the past and we glided smoothly — on past forests, orchards and plantations an ever-varying scene of loveliness and grandeur. The negroes were everywhere present, and I imagined the people had turned dark skinned during our absence. In a few days we arrived at New Orleans and were there treated with the same southern cordiality by the officers of the shipping company that we had received on the pilot. A steam— — boat the Goddess of Liberty was chartered and the two hundred and fifty Saints went on board, and a week later were landed at St. Louis. When we had proceeded as far as Chester, in the southern part of Illinois, our family landed there and took up our abode for the winter, as our enemies had threatened to arrest P)rother Pratt as soon as he should step on Missouri soil. MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 575 We rented part of the warehouse at the landing, stored our goods in the front part and partitioned off a place at the back for house-keeping. A family by the name of Francis occupied the — upper story, and they had four little girls two of them about my age, and the company made the time pass more pleasantly with me than it otherwise would have done.-4 OLD STEARNS HOME. The porch is the only outside change except removing of shutters my age. Their mother was a cultured, southern lady and the little girls were very nice companions, the one two and a half years old was a nice playmate for mv little sister Olivia of the same age. The little boys. Parley and Nathan, had plenty of room to run and play in the large building, and we made ourselves as comfortable as possible under the circumstances. We had plenty of provisions and everything necessary for our comfort in that line. Brother Pratt had bought sugar and molasses by the hogshead at New Orleans, as also other groceries, to take up to Nauvoo, and many a time have my thoughts reverted to those days as I afterwards lived here in Utah, without a taste of sweets for months at a time, and I longingly remember that good quality of brown sugar at 3c per pound. One night there was quite a strong shock of earthquake that rattled and shook the building and woke us all up, and I never forgot the queerness of the feeling it gave me, being the first I had ever experienced. One day I went to the store, and one of the clerks asked me all sorts of questions about "Mormonism," until I felt very indignant, and finally he wanted to know if he should marry my moth576 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. er's sister(Aunt Olive Frost, who lived with us) if that would make him second apostle. This was too much, and I turned and left the place without deigning to answer him. He was very friendly, though, and ofifered to hire a place for Brother 'Pratt to preach, and was only trying to be funny, as I afterwards found out. Brother Pratt went to visit a branch of the Church about fifteen miles south of Chester and brought back with him a young man by the name of Ichabod Brazier, who lived with us while Brother Pratt took a journey to Nauvoo. We had the two Shetland ponies that had crossed the sea with us, and Brother Pratt took them and went by land not deeming it safe to take a boat, on account of his enemies being on the watch for him. This young man Ichabod belonged to the Church, was about nineteen years of age, the son of a widow. He went up to Nauvoo with us, and while on a visit to his mother the next fall, was drowned while bathing in the Mississippi river, near his home. Going up to Nauvoo, Brother Pratt purchased a building lot of Squire Wells, situated one block north of the temple. The view from that point was a grand one. We could see over into — Iowa and for miles up and down the river as well as the lower part of the city that was built on the flats that extended down to its banks. Many a time, with companions, I have stood on the brow of the hill and watched the sun sink behind the Iowa hills, in the far distant west, little dreaming that I should follow its course until I, with the rest of the pilgrims, found a home in the top of the Rocky Mountains, so many, many miles distant, over the trackless plains and burning sands. Brother Pratt left the little ponies at Nauvoo and purchased a larger animal, returning to Chester after an absence of three weeks, bringing joyful tidings of our friends, and the Saints at that place. Two years of peace and prosperity had wrought great — — changesmany good buildings had been erected the temple walls were up to the arch of the basement windows, the font was in place with a temporary covering, and the hearts of the Saints rejoiced exceedingly in the presence of their Prophet and Patriarch to cheer them on in the work of salvation. The Saints that we had been acquainted with in England and that had immigrated the year before sent us words of love and cheer and we could hardly wait the appointed time to again take up our journey to the promised land, the then abiding place of the Saints. But near the last of February we took steamer for St. Louis, and upon our arrival there were transferred to the little steamboat. Maid of Iowa, to continue the journey to Nauvoo, but the weather was so cold and so much ice in the river that we were detained there four weeks. Brother Lorenzo Snow's company of Saints on board the Amaranth were stationed just ahead of us, MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. S77 and had to remain the same length of time. A little boy of his company about eight years old fell overboard and was drowned. I attended the funeral and was much impressed by the accident. By the last of March, the ice breaking up, the two steamers started up the river. Sometimes one would be ahead and then the other, our little boat being much hindered by the large cakes of ice. We were two weeks making the journey, and on the 5th of April I had a little sister born who was named Susan for our Grandma Frost. The 6th being my own birthday I regretted it very much that they could not have come together. Brother Snow, with his company, landed at Nauvoo in the forenoon of April 12, and our company in the afternoon of the same day. And oh the anxiety of the Saints to see the Prophet Joseph! Smith Some thought they would be able to discern him in a multitude, and they all longed to behold him and grasp his hand. Brothers Joseph and Hyrum and a large company of people were at the landing to meet us. Brother Pratt had introduced him to the company, and a general hand-shaking followed with the friends who had come to take them to their various homes and destinations. Then Brother Joseph came on the boat and into the cabin where our family were. After cordial greetings, he took a seat and taking the little boys. Parley and Nathan, upon his knees, seemed much affected. Brother Pratt remarking, "We took away three children and have brought back five." Then Brother Joseph said, "Well, well. Brother Parley, you have returned bringing your sheaves with you," the tears streaming down his face. Brother Pratt, seeing the general emotion this caused, said, in a tender, jesting fashion, "Why, Brother Smith, if you feel so bad about our coming home, I guess we will have to go back again," tears of joy filling his own eyes. This broke the spell smiles returned, and joy unbounded filled every heart. It was indeed a time of rejoicing, that two boat loads of Saints had arrived in one day. Brother Joseph arose saying, "Come, Brother Parley, bring your folks right up to my house it is only a little way, and you can be more comfortable after your long journey." My mother was placed in the big chair, and Brother Hodge, with others of Brother Joseph's bodyguard, carried her up to the Mansion, Brother Pratt carrying the baby — the rest of us following along, listening to all that Brother Joseph had to say. Some of our friends insisted on having part of our family, so Aunt Olive and we children were taken up to Mother Sessions', where she nursed us up to good health again the little ones that were not quite over the effects of the measles— and I had chills and fever while on the boat. It was while located on the boat at St. Louis that I saw the little book published by Martha Brotherton on polygamy. She with her family had visited at our house before they left England, ; 578 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. and being acquainted with her made me very curious to know what she had to say about it, so I took the book, went into my berth, drew the curtains, and proceeded to investigate. I had always been taught to believe in the Bible, and when I came to the place where it quoted Abraham, Jacob and others as having more OLD RED SCHOOL HOUSE NEAR STEARNS HOME Still used. Mount Will as background. than one wife, I decided that the principle must be true, coming from that source— and also, though right for others, not for me — was my firm conclusion. And though thus steeled against it for myself, I always honored and respected those living in it. A house was soon rented across the street from our lot, and we moved in joyfully, watching the building of our new home. The barn was put up first, a room in the basement plastered and fitted up with shelves, the goods brought from New Orleans put in, and soon a thriving grocery business established, the people bringing butter, corn meal and eggs to exchange for sugar, molasses, dried fruit, etc., and the people working on the buildings drawing their supplies from that source. Our family had not had any corn meal during the two years we were in England, and we were just feasting on it in any way it might be cooked, but the poor English Saints, who had never been used to eating it, fared badly with it they did not relish it; it did not seem to nourish them, and made many of them very sick, and some, no doubt, died on account of the great change in their habits of living. And right here I desire to bear testimony of the faithfulness of the most of those dear English Saints that MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 579 journeyed up to Nauvoo at that time. They murmured not even to the laying down of their lives, in the gospel they loved so well and knew to be true, and many of them proved their integrity through long lives of usefulness here in the "Valleys of the Mountains," and have left a numerous posterity to follow on in their footsteps. I wish it were possible for me to name them, one by one, and tell of their good works in the Kingdom of God. I have looked upon many of them as of ''a faith-promoting series," for I never would see one of them to talk to him be it ever so short a time, but what I felt strengthened and encouraged, and I feel sure that when our Heavenly Father makes up his jewels these Saints will help to enlarge the setting; and oh, that I might be permitted to have a place among them in the great hereafter A! few were faint-hearted and turned back, but remained in America, and still holding on to the first principles of the gospel, but too weak to stand the trials our Father gave to prove them. In the latter part of June our joy was increased by the arrival of Grandfather and Grandmother Frost, with their two daughters, Sophronia and Huldah, from their home in the state of Maine. They were all in the Church and rejoiced in the prosperity of Zion. Grandfather, being a carpenter, soon went to work on the house, which was of brick with white stone basecaps and window sills, and four-foot square-stone pillars at the front of the store, supporting a stone cornice at the first story. There were twenty-seven large windows in the building, and the cost when finished was $3,500. laying floors, making the stairs and before the roof was quite finished we commenced moving in and kept going from one part to the other until it was all completed. There was a deep cellar under the whole house, and before the floors were all laid my little brother Nathan, while walking over the joists, stepped on the end of a board when it tipped up and he fell through into the cellar, breaking his leg between the knee and hip. Dr. Weld set the bone, and it was three weeks before he could have the box taken off. We were much grieved by the accident to our darling, and after the first day we did all we could to amuse him that the time might not seem so long and the confinement to the house so tedious. He was very patient and he loved to have Grandma Frost hold him and sing to him when he got able to sit up. One day, before he was able to walk, he crawled across the street to get where grandma was. on his hands and knees, and when grandpa saw him and what he had done he shed tears over him and told him next time to call him and he would carry him where he wanted to go. Soon after our arrival at Nauvoo, I attended a school taught by Miss Alvira Wheeler (she was one of the members of the first Relief Society) at the house of Brother Orson Spencer, and it was there I first became acquainted with his daughters Ellen and 580 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Aurelia — one a little older and the other a little younger than myself, and my love for them was like that of a sister. I enjoyed their companionship very much and our friendship grew stronger as the years rolled on. We passed through the trying times of those days together, we counseled together, we comforted each other. And I can number these two as the tried and trusted, lifelong friends of my childhood's beginning. Their house faced the center of the public square and ours was close by, and many a time we have stood and watched the Nauvoo Legion drilling there, and our hearts swelled with pride at their noble appearance, and when the muffled drum would sound in the silent hours of night, how our souls would sink with dread at the ominous warning of trouble to our beloved city. But children's hearts are light, and we enjoyed our schools, our meetings, and our play times, little dreaming what the future had in store for either of us. One of our most enjoyable pastimes was to visit the Temple and run round on its walls, until it grew so high that it was considered dangerous, and we were prohibited from that pleasure. On the fourth of July, 1843, there was an excursion, on the little Maid of Iowa, up to Burlington, Iowa, and my father and mother and Aunt Olive went on the pleasure trip. Mother and Aunt Olive were dressed alike and were standing a little distance off, when Brother Joseph said to Brother Parley, "It is the will of the Lord that those two sisters should never be parted" (meaning that they should both belong to one man). This being the next year after he received the revelation on Celestial Marriage, MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 581 is an added testimony to the truth of that principle. I heard Brother Pratt tell it on his return home, and my mother also told me about it, and remembered it all her life, and frequently spoke about it. Later in July there was another excursion on the little boat — this time down the river to Quincy, Illinois. Mother could not go on account of little Natie's leg being broken Aunt Olive was; also detained at home, so I was permitted to go with Pa, Uncle Orson, and Aunt Sarah Pratt. We took dinner with the Mayor of Quincy, he having invited Brothers Joseph and Hyrum and others of our people whom he had become acquainted with during their sojourn in that city, and entertained them at his house, but I think it would be more proper to say that Brother Joseph did the entertaining, as he talked, and the rest listened with the greatest attention. After a very enjoyable time, as all seemed to testify, we started on our return journey. Our progress was slow, the little boat being too small to stem the rapids successfully, and it was nearly morning before we landed at Nauvoo. Early in the evening, being tired and sleepy, my Pa took me on his lap to rest. He was sitting on the deck opposite Brother Joseph, so near that their knees almost touched. Brother Joseph was preaching, and numbers crowded around, listening. He stopped and gently raised my feet upon his knees, and when I would have drawn them away he said, "No, let me hold them you will rest better." ; I was soon sound asleep, and the next I knew, it was morning, and we had landed at Nauvoo. (to be continued.) PRESIDENT WELLS IN IDAHO. President Emmeline B. Wells is, at the present time, in Wallace, Idaho, visiting at the home of her daughter Mrs. Wm. C. Woods. She was accompanied on this little vacation trip by her granddaughter Miss Katherine Cannon. President Wells has been very active in connection with stake conference work. She has visited a great many stake conventions, as well as the Northwestern States Mission. SCHOOL OF OBSTETRICS AND NURSING. We are pleased to announce that the Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing will begin its present term on Monday, September 18, 1916, at 9 o'clock a. m. Fourth Floor, Bishop's Building. From many letters of inquiry, we predict an increased attendance over last year. Any information regarding the school will be promptly given upon inquiry, at Room No. 29, Bishop's Building. Phone, Wasatch 3123. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. Salt Lake City now has the largest police force in its history. It still remains for it to show whether it is the best. Fourteen nations formally and fiercely at war in Europe leaves little to be desired, in a peaceful way, in present conditions there. Foodstuffs are steadily rising in price in the United States. Now is a time of preparedness in other than big guns and warships. Italy at last has seized the important Austrian stronghold of Gorizia, after sanguinary battles, and thus has opened the way for taking over a large slice of present Austrian territory. Prohibition of the traffic in intoxicating liquors has been agreed upon by the political parties in Utah now the issue is; whether the law to be passed will be effective or otherwise. Infantile paralysis has passed for the time being as a scourge in New York, but no discovery of a remedy or means to prevent its recurrence has been heralded as yet. Hailstones an inch and a quarter in diameter fell in a storm at American Fork, Utah, on Aug. 6. The damage to crops in the vicinity is estimated at $10,000; yet the storm covered only a limited area. National expenditures in the United States, in 1916, are shown by Congressional appropriations to be fully $500,000,000 more than in 1915. The Texas coast, for a distance of 150 miles, was visited by a fierce gale on August 18, several lives being lost, and $2,000,000 damage done to property. "Immodest dancing" has been condemned by the National Dancing Masters' Association. Young men and girls with a claim to respectability should have condemned it long since, from motives of self-protection, if nothing more. The Bakers' Convention at Salt Lake City raised the bread price to 10 cents a loaf. Home baking is somewhat cheaper in that the wife does her own labor, otherwise the difference in cost is not great. CURRENT EVENTS. 583, Romania having declared war on the side of the Entente allies, thus cuts off a route of communication between the Teutonic nations and Turkey the latter, thus isolated, draws steadily; nearer to dismemberment. France's war leader, General Joffre, says the tide of war has turned against the Teutonic nations. Yet the German western battle-front is a high and rocky coast for the turned tide to engulf. Herbert Asquith, premier of Great Britain, foreshadowed equal suffrage to men and women in that nation, in a statement recently made to parliament. His prediction aroused much criticism among those staid and stolid Britishers who still regard wives as among their goods and chattels. Sir Roger Casement, who was the chief figure in the recent attempted German expedition to Ireland, was hanged on August 3 as a traitor to Great Britain. No doubt his scheme of invading Ireland was the cause of hundreds of deaths in connection with the recent Sinn Fein rebellion in the Emerald Isle. Turkish efforts to seize the Suez canal have met with another failure in a disastrous defeat of the Turks by the British forces. This event, with the rising of the Arabs against Turkish rule, holds the Ottoman power well back to the southern corner of Palestine. Leon H. Radmall, of Pleasant Grove, with the Utah battery at Nogales, Arizona, was killed on August 18, by the kick of a mule, while he was on duty. This is the first fatality in the battery since it went to the Mexican front. Turkey has refused the United States request to permit the starving Syrians to be fed by neutral nations, which would send food into Asia Minor the claim being made that there is plenty; of food there. The claim, however, has been disproved. By such actions as this, Turkey is rapidly filling its cup of wrath. Coercion of Congress into passing an eight-hour-day-for-ten-hours-pay law is the net result thus far of the Labor Day strike called by the four brotherhood unions of trainmen on the steam railways. The law does not go into effect until after the November election, when its constitutionality will be contested by the railway owners. Russia's advance into Austro-Hungary continues, while the czar's forces more than hold their own in the Caucasus region of Turkey. This, with the pressure on other war fronts, should make material changes in the Old World conflict ere winter sets in. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto —Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Home Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. III. OCTOBER, 1916. No. 10. OUT OF DEATH LIFE IS BORN. Women go down into the Valley of Death every Death time human life is born to earth. The creation is a Birth, — of life — the conception of an idea the first vision — of great enterprises the bursting glory of the dream of conquest — these epitomize the bliss of human all lives. The realization, the achievement, the slow process of development, gestation, and of birth — ah, these hours crowd into themselves all the poignancy, of struggle known to mortality. Many are ignorant of this law; or, knowing it, are unwilling to bear the pains of fulfilment. Out in the rosy dawn shines the vision, but the hours of restless labor, hopeless struggle, and mental anguish, which come with the glaring noon-tide, cannot be borne; and so the thought dies, the plan is set aside, and the idea withers, and the purpose is foiled. The power to conceive thought is, happily, not Creative confined to sex or condition. Nor is the endurForce Not ance to develop ideals and to carry enterprises an a Sex accident of circumstance or sex. The most highly Condition, organized personality, the greatest dynamic brain power, are common to men and to women alike. EDITORIAL. 585 Women more often exercise their powers in human development, while men expend their creative forces in public and social policies. Yet how few of them all follow the struggle to its source, or measure the dread weight of development and gestation when the joy of conception is upon them. Out of the heavenly gate of death we are Stones of born into earth-life. Through the gateway of Life's Gateway, earthly death we are born into heavenly life. The pangs of death are the stones out of which are built life's gateways. ,. Are you sweating and toiling up life's noonGethsemane tide, burden-strapped, and nerve-quivering? Before the What bright vision of yesterday is this toilTransfiguration, some today fulfilling? Paint the sky with the cloud glory of yesterday and the rich sunset of tomorrow. Be sure that birth travail is always severe, but the child of your purpose fulfilled will rest sweetly in your tired arms after the struggle is over. There is no achievement without struggle, no birth without pain, no bliss without a preceding pang. Every transfiguration is preceded by a Gethsemane. Yours as mine, mine as was the dear Master's. If your agony of unrest, your dread to go forward, your shrinking from the coming battle appalls your souls, remember that you are suffering as I suffer, bearing as Jesus endured. The greater the coming light, the deeper the present gloom. Every great artist shudders and gasps before the entering in upon performance. The keener the dread, the finer will be the achievement. The battle-horse sniffs the struggle from afar and champs at his confining bits. The laboring mother-animal, restlessly paces the earth, hoping against hope that the trial may be yet a little while postponed. The art conception hides in the farthest brain recesses, dreading entrance into organized life. Into the few hours of respite and joy which This is the follow birth, there floats another vision, a Only True Life, newer attainment. We may turn away with tired eyes and bid conception wait upon opportunity. But into life that intense life which is alive and thrilling with creative powers — there passes an intermittent procession of glorious dreams, lofty visions. We may appraise and weigh vision-values, but if we are true followers of the Lord of Life, our souls will never rest supinely in the vale of inaction. We shall constantly aspire, create, conceive, develop and evolve. Yet ever in that restless progress, life struggles to conceive and death ever keeps the toll-gate Yet who would — ! not suffer that he might create and bring forth thought, achievement, human and divine life. Ah, this is the life! ; Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in November. , WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. ELIZABETH AND ANNA. (Read chapter 1 of Luke, verses 5 to 25, 39 to 43, and 57 to 66, for Elizabeth and verses 36 to 38, inclusive, of the chapter; for Anna.) These two women are characters in the New Testament, and make their appearance, either directly or indirectly, in connection with Christ. Elizabeth was the mother of John the Baptist. Like her husband at the time their son was born, she was "well stricken in years." Her home is thought to be in the south, at Hebron or near there. Her husband, Zacharias, was a priest. This fact, if we were inclined to venture into the realm of conjecture, would give us a clue to the nature of her life. It would be a retired life, for one thing, and more deeply colored by religion, for another, than most other contemporary women. Not to Elizabeth, but to her husband, did the angel come to announce the birth of John. We do not know, of course, why this was, and it would be foolish to surmise the reason. Zacharias, it would appear, had been praying for a son, notwithstanding his old age. It is not difficult to imagine that this petition had been uttered year after year, as he came to the temple to perform his part of the sacred work there, and that, moreover, it had become a merely mechanical part of his prayer, just as often happens with us. This would account for his surprise when an angel informed him that his prayer had been heard and that his wife should bear him a son, whose name was to be John; just as some of us would be surprised if something we had been praying for in a mechanical way for years should come true. But this, to be sure, is not expressly said in the text. At all events, the prayer was answered Elizabeth "conceived, and hid herself five months." In due course of time John was born. And here we get a small insight into Elizabeth's nature. For, when this event happened, her relatives wanted to name the child Zacharias, after his father, but she said, "Not so but he shall be called John." They argued with her, but she insisted on her point. Evidently, therefore, Elizabeth had kept the GUIDE LESSONS. 587 whole matter to herself. On this, Zacharias' tongue was loosed, which had been bound since the angelic visitation in the temple. Filled with the Holy Ghost, he praised God and predicted that the child would "be called the Prophet of the Highest" and "go before the face of the Lord to prepare His ways." Before the birth of her own child Elizabeth uttered these memorable words, to her cousin Mary, who was about to become the mother of Jesus, which reveal something of her character: "Blessed art thou among women," she said, "and blessed is the fruit of thy womb. Whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me? For, lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy. And blessed is she that believed; for there shall be a performance of those things which were told her from the Lord." Here, then, is the atmosphere in which Elizabeth lived, at least for a time— the longing of a Hebrew woman for a child (and this longing, as we shall see in the lesson that follows, was different from that of the woman of any other nation), the priestly life of her husband, the constant association with the temple and with everything that was sacred to the Jews of those days, the miracle of her conception in her old age when the "manner of women" was past with her, the constant knowledge that something unusual attached to her unborn child, something associated with the Messiah. All this would have a tremendous effect on any devout woman, most of all on a devout Hebrew woman. Anna, says Luke, was a "prophetess." Hence she must have been somewhat of a character locally. The same historian informs us that she was "the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher." Being eighty-four years of age, she had "lived with a husband" but seven years "from her virginity." All the rest of the time she had been a widow. She devoted her whole life to the service of God, for we are told that "she departed not from the temple, but served God with fastings and prayers night and day." The only time she makes her appearance in the New Testament is when Jesus, a babe in his mother's arms, is brought to the temple "to do for him after the customs of the law." Coming into the court at the instant that Simeon was giving his blessing and prophecy over the infant Savior, she "gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all that looked for the redemption in Jerusalem." From the little that is said in the biblical narrative concerning Anna, we gather that she was a devout religionist and that she was a woman of great intelligence and faith for she both understood and believed in the promises touching the Messiah and in their fulfilment in Christ. Not only so, but Luke, in the phrase, "she spake of him to all that looked for the redemption 588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. in Jerusalem," makes her one of the first, if not the first, to advocate acceptance of the Christ. QUESTIONS. 1. Give an account of what happened to Elizabeth, so far as we know it. 2. Contrast her with her husband in respect to faith. 3. Why did she "hide herself" for five months? 4. What would be her probable feelings regarding her condition as to her child? 5. Can you infer anything concerning the character of Elizabeth from the fact that she had this miracle happen to her? If so, what? 6. Give the details concerning Anna's life? What kind of woman was she? Give your reasons. LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in November. LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in November. GENEALOGY. SCOTCH AND IRISH SURNAMES. The belief that the ancient Celtic race descended from one of the tribes of Israel is widespread among this people. They were a primitive warlike race which at one time occupied the greater part of western Europe, France, British Isles, southern Germany and Switzerland. The people themselves have been absorbed into other races, practically, while the language is extinct. The Welsh are probably the only ones who retain any considerable evidence of the ancient inheritances. These peoples were governed largely through tribes or clans. Their inherited patriarchal traditions were productive of similar results wherever they were found. They were intensely loyal to their tribes or clans. A chieftain as the embodied symbol of all the virtues and powers of the clan claimed their deepest allegiance. He was not a despot, nor did he possess arbitrary powers. He was controlled by a council of elders as were his Israelitish forebears. His home belonged to the clan or tribe and he could not bar his door against any member of his tribe, howsoever humble that neighbor might be. GUIDE LESSONS 589 It must be understood that the Gaelic race, although supposed to be of one blood, was divided into clans, and these clans were subdivided into septs or branches. We are told by Duncan Forbes that "a Highland clan is a sept of men, all having the same surname, and believing themselves to be related the one to the other, and to be descendants from the same common ancestor." However simple this division may appear in practice, it became considerably confused by various circumstances. One tribe might war against another, and most of the tribe become extinct through conquest. This was the case in the MacLeod clan. The MacRaes were servants or thralls under the MacLeods, after the battle which was one of practical extinction. The MacLeod widows and daughters married MacRae men and the MacRaes assumed the name of MacLeod. Sometimes because of feuds or occasional intermarriages, men from one tribe or clan joined another. Captives in war were added to clans. All of these circumstances, hindered the perfect clan distinction and the pure blood descent which is now so proudly claimed by the Scotch people. However, the custom was sufficiently rigid in its application to form the most exclusive division of tribal life known in Europe. Clan signifies literally, "offspring, children." In Irish this is called cland and in Welsh it is plant. The clan is the expansion of the family. Each male member was called Mac or "the son of" the first ancestor. Each member of the clan MacLeod was a MacLeod or son of Leod or of the clan Leod and the MacAllister; was a son of the original Allister. Sometimes when there were a number of Ians (which is the Scotch form of spelling John), existing in any one branch of the clan, it was customary to add a nick-name such as, red Ian MacAllister, giving the color of the hair, or the name of the father, etc., etc. The Irish clan customs followed largely that of the Scottish peoples. In Ireland the head of a tribe gave his name to his descendants or followers who called themselves by his name, preceded by hua or hy meaning grandson, and this has been anglicized into O', as O'Neal, for Hua Nial. Hua Conchabair has become in English O'Connor, and Hua Sulleabhain is O'Sullivan. The ancient Irish, like the Gaelic Highlanders, had their personal names, and that of the sept to which they belonged. Should there be need for discrimination between those of the same Christian name, the same mode of distinguishing one from another was pursued in Ireland as in the Scottish Highlands. In the tenth century King Brian Boru is said to have issued an edict that the descendants of the heads of tribes and families 590 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE then in power should take name from them, either from the fathers and grandfathers, and these names should become hereditary and fixed forever. The custom of adoption and absorption into tribes or class was as prevalent in Ireland as it was in Scotland. Irish names passed through a great many changes after their first introduction, and many of the descendants of the old families exchanged their names for others. In 1485 an Act was passed entitled "An Act that the Irishmen dwelling in the counties of Dublin, Myeth, Wriall, and Kildare, shall gae apparelled like English men, and ware their heads after the English manner, sware allegiance, and take English surnames." This Act directed every Irishman whom it concerned to "take to him an English surname after one towne, as Sutton, Chester, Trym, Syrne, Corke, Kinsale, or colour: as White, Blacke, Browne and that he and his issue shall use this name; under payne of forfeiting of his goods yearly till the premises be done." Thus constrained, the Mac and O'Gowans became Smiths; the Shonachs, Foxes; the MacIntires, Carpenters; the MacCogrys, L'Estranges; and the MacKillies, Cocks. Note: We suggest the classes shall purchase the book called Family Surnames and Their Story, by S. Baring Gould, chapter 18 for this lesson. QUESTIONS. Who are the Celts? What countries did they inhabit? Who are their descendants? What is a clan? How are they subdivided? What clan customs obtained in Ireland? Who was Brian Boru? What was the Act of 1485, passed by the English parliament, and how did it affect Irish surnames? What is the meaning of Mac? What is the meaning of O' ? ART. NOVEMBER LANDSCAPE. The leaves are falling, but they lie in heaps of brown under the purple branches of the wild birch and alder, the scrub-oak, maple and elderberry. Owing to the exquisite subtlety of coloring GUIDE LESSONS. 591 at this time of the year, our mountains are most beautiful. The white-trunk quaking aspen gleam through great and smaller green pines few of winter's withered leaves still hang by their; stems or huddle under the bare brush. As you walk through the deeply marked footpaths, a few rustle beneath your feet. Though the tenderness of spring is far away, November is filled with perhaps a greater beauty, even spirituality. Its tones are mellow, soft and low. Its colors are no longer rampant, flamboyant, as in September and October, but all subtle, exquisite. Just as does April, November sends the rain to wash and cleanse from dust every living thing. The ground must be a storehouse for water before the freezing time sets in and the snow blanket covers the whole earth. It is a time of sadness and of tears, and the mist envelops the hills. FREEZING TIME. The last of November is the time to organize a skating party, and remember skating is not just for young people. Thanksgiving time brings generally the first skating weather. Among the brightest memories of my young life was the skating party on Thanksgiving morning, followed by roast goose and wild ducks at home. QUESTIONS. a. Describe a canyon scene in November before the rainy season. b. Describe the November soaking wet day in the valley. c. Describe a November fog on the hills or in the valley. d. If you have a picture representing that time of year, refer to it. e. Describe the last outing at the canyon camp. f. Compare the Winter, Spring and Summer with this time of year. g. What is the character of the sky? h. Note the difference from the spring sky. i. Describe the skating weather. Which is lighter, the sky or the ice? Which is darker, the willows around the ponds or the far-off mountains? j. Make a sketch of skaters playing tag, on the ice. ARCHITECTURE. Provide a collection of pictures of beautiful buildings. We suggest that you take one subject such as, English cathedrals, Panama-Pacific Exposition, World's Columbian Exposition, French Exposition, or the Lewis & Clark Exposition. Mount the pictures on cards which may be pasted or pinned upon the wall. 592 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. SUGGESTION. Many sisters have missionaries in Europe or in the Eastern or Western states, who have perhaps sent views of wonderful architecture. Here is a place to utilize them. Familiarize the members with the names of the buildings, and the place where the buildings are erected. LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in November. THE SERVANT PROBLEM. — Roll Call. What may I do to dignify home labor? — Gem. "For though I be free from all men yet have I made myself servant unto all that I might gain the more" (1 Cor. 9:19). Introduction. The procuring of efficient help in the home is one of the real problems of the modern industrial world. In no other field of human work is there such lack of understanding between employer and employed, such lack of standardization or such general dissatisfaction. This lesson is presented with the hope of bringing to the attention of the mothers of Israel these unsatisfactory conditions and at least making an attempt at some kind of reform. II. The Servant — A Definition. Why do we so object to the term "servant?" The greatest servant ever born was Christ who is the servant of every man that ever lived. It is a beautiful thing to serve with love and intelligence, or to be served. The real meaning of the word "servant" as used in connection with housework, should be: one who is learning one's job so that one may be master when it is learned. It is just another name for an apprentice when used in this sense. — What's in a Name? If the name servant hurts one's pride, let us choose another word: maid, household aid, home helper, or housekeeper. Any of the above names are as dignified as clerk, typewriter, or nurse, or any other, if only we think so. — The Lesson of Democracy. One must not forget that in this free country one man is just as good as another, if he does his work as well and keeps himself as honest, virtuous, and industrious. No profession on earth requires greater intelligence or more real brain power than does the successful house profession. — The Lesson of Christianity. The man who has the true Christian spirit can never feel himself superior to another man because of mere birth, or social station, or wealth or any artificial man-made condition. There is no class distinction between real Latter-day Saints. III. Kinds of Service. By the Job. — It is not unusual to hire help for a certain kind of GUIDE LESSONS. 593 work, or for the fixed period of time such as at threshing time on the farm, or to do the spring or fall sewing, or for the week or month of a woman's confinement. Such help is usually not hard to get and is fairly satisfactory. — By the Day. Some women prefer to work by the day at laundry work or heavy housework. This is generally a satisfactory kind of help to get, and to give, and it may be that the hired housework of the future will have to be done in just this way for there are advantages on both sides. — General Housework. The most unsatisfactory kind of houseservice is that performed by the general maid of all work, and in the small home where only one maid is kept. It is also the hardest kind of work to do and to get done. Such work is supposed by the employer to begin before the family is astir in the morning; it lasts all day and into the evening; and it includes the performance of all kinds of work known to the home. By the very nature of things, this kind of service will remain unsatisfactory until it is more intelligently systematized. IV. Imperfect Standardization. There are many reasons why housework and its performance by others outside of the home has not reached the degree of efficiency found in other occupations of men and women. — Causes. The first reason for this lack of standardization is the fact that housework itself is in an unorganized condition. Housework Unorganized.— Not until recent years, have thinkers and educators generally, found it necessary to study housework as a profession. — Long Hours. By very necessity, the performance of housework includes long hours for mistress and maid, as well as many and exacting kinds of labor. Only when the housework is very carefully organized, can there be found any time for recreation or rest; and organization requires careful thought, intelligence, and a trained intellect, whether that training come from experience or through schools. No Standard. — One reason why housework is so unorganized is that no one has establised a standard of work. Mrs. A. requires her housework to be done in a certain manner; Mrs. B. wants her work done in an entirely different way The bewildered girl thus finds herself at the mercy of an unregulated, whimsical, domestic standard as varied as are the noses on the faces of her changing mistresses. — Social Ostracism. Another reason for dissatisfaction is that the one who does housework for pay is placed in a social class by herself. Even the unions ignore her. Not only is she in a different class, but in a lower class, unfortunately. So that a healthy, intelligent woman, will try almost any other kind of work before turning to her last resort — housework. Nowadays, if a woman has brains to do anj'thing else, she will refuse to do housework. — Personal Happiness. Most girls realize that their girlhood comes but once, and because of the very swiftness of its passing, they long to have some pleasure mixed with their daily toil. This is not possible unless the housewife plans carefull3r and attends sympathetically to the girl's social needs and desires. — Lack of Training. The next reason for this condition is a result of the two previous conditions. It is really lack of training on the part,of those who "hire out." Many of them have had very little experience in the doing of housework in their own homes. For one 594 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. reason or another, the girls are tired of living at home; or the parents want them to earn a little money; or the girls themselves feel they need a little more money, and with money as the only incentive, these ignorant, untrained girls go out into the active occupation of housework to earn their living. Then these unprepared maids expect to earn good wages while they are really learning their trade. No mistres feels satisfied with such service; as soon as the girl has learned her trade, she is ready to marry, or go where she can earn bigger wages. — No Laws or Traditions to Protect Employer or Employed. In this country there are no laws to protect the mistress or the maid. In the older countries of Europe, the girl has back of her a law that protects her in any position where she is doing her duty. The same is true of the mistress. No maid can leave her employment as long as she is doing the right thing by the girl unless the girl gives the mistress at least one month's warning. Such a condition as a girl leaving over night if she so desires, is unheard of, for no one will employ a girl unless she comes with a good recommendation from the last place in which she worked. This excellent custom gives a sense of responsibility both to the working girl, and to the woman who pays the wages. The domestic service in this country would be much more satisfactory if there were laws to protect both parties in the contract. May it not be possible to institute such laws in our own state. The Remedy. — The remedy for all of these unsatisfactory conditions may be found in a united action by all concerned. The housekeepers themselves, must make the first move, and as a neighborhood or as a class, standardize housework. They must organize their work so that girls need not have to work overtime. They must institute a change in the social position of the hired-girl, the mistress herself feeling a social equality with her maid, even if she fortunately possess superior age and intelligence quality. She must also provide time and opportunity for her maid to have some pleasures. Mothers who want their girls to earn a good part of their living by housework, or to prepare for future domestic service, must make each girl share in the different processes of housework, and let the girls rotate so that each learns to do all of the processes equally well, instead of keeping one girl on one certain phase of housework which she prefers, and which, therefore, over-emphasizes her efficiency. She v/ill also give each girl some experience in the marketing, and in those deeper, intricate problems that make or mar a good housekeeper. She will train her girls to adopt the budget system. She must regulate and systematize her own household labors, putting all her kitchen, house-cleaning and financial problems on a sound, well-regulated business basis. Finally, both mistress and maid, mothers and daughters, must unite in suggesting and securing legislation on this vexed problem. — The Lure of the Shop. Parents and mistresses who hire girls for housework generally, must seriously regard the seenrng advantages of the shop work for girls. It is often next to impossible to find help in certain large towns because the girls all prefer to go to the factory or the shops. Why is this? Is it because those who need home help, do not try to make the home a worthy rival to the shop? There is an old saying that you can drive a horse to water, but you can't make him drink. It is equally true that you can't make independent, human beings do what they don't v/ant to d,o. One thing you can do is to create good desires and right views of domestic life during the formative period of a girl's life. That is the problem that confronts the mothers in their homes today. How are you going to inake the girls GUIDE LESSONS. 595 enjoy housework? Until that is accomplished, these unfortunate and haphazard ideals and methods will persist. Girls will go where they have regular hours, a chance to wear clean, nice clothes, and at least — — one whole real Jioliday the Sabbath to themselves. The Farm Home Pkoblem.— Those who find it difficult to get sufficient help in farm homes must be especially vigilant in providing seme pleasurable offset to the isolation and the necessarily long hours of work on the farm. They must use their wits and think of advantages and compensations which they can offer to the girls who come to help them, even if it means the purchase of a small phonograph and the promise of social recreation every evening if work is well done. Two or more homes could co-operate in such schemes and plans to lesson the drudgery of long hours and heavy work. A" little advertising in the city papers of the fact that in a certain farming community, certain healthful pleasures are provided for those who work there might prove money well invested, especially if expenses be shared by a half dozen families. It is especially necessary that farm mothers make their work more attractive to their own daughters than in the city lure, which draws so many pleasure-loving girls. V. The JNIistress. The mistress who engages help may well expect certain things uom any one who enters her home for wages. They are: Good Service. —She has a right to expect that the one whom she._mplcys iscapable of earning every cent of the money the girl demands as wages. The girl should know her housekeeping businesi either from home experience, from study and practice in schools, or from good training in other homes; else how can she expect to be paid wages? — Simple Honesty. That a woman employing help in the home should expect absolute honesty, need not be dwelt on. Not onlyhonesty as regards the propert}' of others but honesty in the matter of — giving honest time and of doing honest work not work that is well done on the surface but untouched in the corners. A m'stress may i^ghtfully insist that the maid possesses a sense of honor and responsibility in the performance of all her work and in all her words, as she, herself, practices honesty towards the maid; this much and no more. An undependable servant is worse than useless. Interest in the Work and in the Home. — A mistress may also expect that the one who enters her employment makes herself interested in the work,of the home and in the members of the family. No one can do good work unless there is a feeling of absolute lo^-alty to the work performed as well as to the employer. This is true in every — occupation of man it is especially true in housework. — Concessions. No problem on earth has only one side. H a mistress expects certain things of those working for her, she must concede equal rights and privileges to those employed by her. — Practice of the Golden Rule. The mistress of the home must be willing to understand and practice the golden rule. The good mistress always has a lively imagination. She is able to put herself in the position of the one who works for her and is willing to treat thf worker as she would like to be treated, if she were in the position of the servant. H a woman is willing to do this, she is more than apt to succeed in the employment of help in the home. A good mistress must realize that her helper is some other woman's daughter, and as she would like her own daughter to be treated in similar circumstances, she must be willing to treat the girl who comes into her home. A little love and expression of appreciation will do more 596 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. toward making the girl willing to work with vigor and determination tlian will all the harsh w,ords and misunderstandings in the world. An attempt to supplant in a way the mother love that the girl is missing in being away from her own home will do much to bring out of the girl the very best that is in her. Another thing that the wise mistress understands is that every human being needs companionship. The thoughtful mistress will make it possible for the girl to have the right kind of companionship when her work is done, even though she may not have it during the period of work. This is often difficult if there is a feeling of class distinction in the home — if the daughter of the house is considered socially better than the maid who comes to work. But even though that feeling exists, the mistress must encourage the girl to have the right kind of friends come to see her and provide some way of making right acquaintances. This is only fair to the girl because girlhood comes but once and the friendships of girlhood are those which often last the longest in life. Another thing that the mistress must keep in mind in order to be perfectly fair to the girl who works for her, is the fact that the girls of today are the mothers of tomorrow. No woman wants the responsibility of having urged the girl to w,ork at periods which may cause serious injury to her body. Sympathy for the girl will enable the mistress to instill into the unformed mind truths that will be helpful to her when she grows into mature womanhood and undertakes the great responsibility of life. Mother-Talks will be a great factor in drawing the girl to the woman for whom she works, and will rouse in the girl more interest in her tasks, while instilling gratitude and affection for her mistress, and the members of the family for whom she works. Aside from sentimental considerations, such a course is fair, just and wise, and brings marketable returns. Competition with City and Shop. — The wise mistress understands that her home and the work of it is in keen competition with the life of the big city or with the shop or factories in her town. The wise woman will offer corresponding inducement for domestic service. She must think of ways to make her work pleasant; making the girl so happy that she will prefer life in the home to hard and constant labor in the shop or the big city establishments. This truth applies to the mother with daughters in the home. Such little devices as providing a prize for the one who shells the most corn or who picks the most peas or peels the onions for the pickling is perfectly legitimate. One niight arrange a picklijig afternoon, and let the girl invite young people to help her and then at the end have ice cream or cake; or let them make candy or something that will make these hard periods of housework pass over with some pleasure to remember them by. In such ways only will the mistress be enabled to make home work m.orc desirable than the work to be found in the shop and in the big city. VI. The M.md's Point of View. If wehave daughters whom we desire for various reasons to_ go out world and live in other people's homes to earn their living, in the or to learn things that they may not have the chance of learning at h.ome, let us consider the maid's point of view of the situation, for there are two sides to every question. — Consideration of Advantages. Thereare many reasons why housework is the very best occupation for girls who are anxious to earn money for any reason whatsoever, or who are undertaking to earn their own living before they become mothers and have a home of their own. The Question of Health.— There is no occupation known to GUIDE LESSONS. 597 women that ofifers more inducements for the preservation of health than does housework if it is rightly done. No woman should disregard this fact in the training and care of her girl. No gymnasium ever equipped ofifers a better chance for health-giving exercise than does a medium-sized home or the large home, if it is organized so that no one has to do more work than can be done well. If women would dress for housework as they dress for the gymnasium, wearing comfortable shoes, comfortable clothing, and work always in rooms that have a free current of air, they would get through their work that constant change of occupation that is so necessary to bodily poise. The tasks rotating agreeably, and every muscle, nerve, and the whole intelligence healthfully engaged. With wisdom and proper understanding, housework can be made attractive as well as physically helpful, and this is an advantage that should not be lightly considered. — The Question of Progression. There is no work with the possible exception of teaching, that gives a girl the chance to learn things that are going to be of benefit to her in her after life as does housework. This is decidedly not true of many of the occupations that women choose today. Tf a woman is working in a comfortable, progressive, intelligent home, she is learning all the time something that she can use to her advantage when she gets a home of her own, and nothing that she learns, if it is well done, need be unlearned. This is a great advantage because life is so short and time is so precious. It is true that a certain amount of drudgery must be done, but there is no profession on earth that does not have its drudgery; housework is no exception to this. The drudgery must be performed intelligently and imder as favorable conditions as possible that it may be mimimized instead of exaggerated. Even dish-washing can be pleasant if performed under healthy conditions in a clean, pleasant kitchen, and especially with some good companion. No girl objects to washing dishes in her chum's kitchen. It is only at home that she objects to this. Now mothers, what is the reason? — Protection. In the case of a girl forced to earn her living as well as of the girl who may choose housework, there is no better occupa^ tion because of the protection that it gives the girl. In most of the town occupations, in shop work, etc., girls are exposed to more or less temptation to indulge in the lesser evils of vanity and extravagance, as well as in those of greater magnitude. Bad men and bad women are to be found everywhere in the city and the town, and it must be understood by girls that if they take upon themselves the responsibility of seeking service with non-"Mormons," these evil conditions too often exist, and they have to meet all kinds of temptations. Ir the Mormon home, on the other hand, they are and should be, protected, shielded by wise women, and given a chance to form the right kind of companionship. — Wages. In no other occupation is a woman able to begin her work with so little outlay. In beginning any kind of business, one has to spend a certain amount of money, more or less, in order to learn the profession. The very nature of home life makes it possible for a girl to learn domestic service in her own home usually, so that she can begin her waee-earning work really without any capital, except that of experience. The better the experience, the better the capital and the more wages she can demand. There are few professions of women that are better paid even though it does not seem to be true on the surface. A girl who earns three dollars in a home js really better paid than a girl who earns six dollars in a shop. The girl in the shop, unless she happens to be living in her own home where her parents are willing to take care of her, has to pay her board, dress 598 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. herself well, take care of her laundry, and all of her incidental expenses, so that a great percentage of her six dollars goes out for necessary living expenses. In housework, the wages that she earns is almost entirely clear profit and a big part of it can be set aside as savings. The dress of the woman doing housework is much less expensive than that of the w.oman who works in the shop, for nice clean gingham dresses are used most of the time and only one or two dresses annually are necessary to wear to social affairs, whereas in the shop, the wear and tear of clothes and of shoe leather, of hats, of coats, and all,of the different kinds of clothing far exceeds any domestic need. Not only are the demands more, but the girls who are in town all the time feel that they must dress better and better, and there is more temptation to spend their money instead of saving it. So that from CA'ery point of view, the moderate wages paid in housework really is to the advantage of the girl who performs this kind of work. This is a consideration that is seldom thought of and yet should be well understood by the girl who intends to earn her living. It is also true that if a girl is the least bit capable she has a chance to keep her job indefinitely, for there are many homes in which competent help is needed, and the mistress is only too glad to find a girl who is willing to work until a possible chance comes to make a home of her own. This is not true of the other occupations. Changes come very rapidly, and often unexpectedly, and the girl often finds herself out of a job for one trivial cause or another. VII. Rights of the Maid. There are certain requirements that every self-respecting girl should make of her mistress. When first entering a home, she should have a good, yet modestly conducted talk with the lady and have a mutual understanding of what she is able to give and what she expects in return from her mistress. In the first place, she has a right to demand a clean, comfortable room. This is worth a great deal and if it cannot be provided, one is perfectly justified in demanding more wages or some other advantage to offset the handicap. She should be given, above all things, a good, comfortable bed. It is really to the advantage of the mistress to have the working girl sleep well, for if she doesn't, she is in no condition to work hard during the day. The pleasanter the room can be made, the easier it will be for the maid to remember the interests of the family who lives there. — Definite Hours and Holidays. As far as possible there should be an understanding of the nature and kind of work required. The girl should demand definite hours and certain holidays, if possible. The hours should not be too long. If, for some family reason, the work m.ust be done at six o'clock in the morning, and the girl must, of necessity, rise one-half or one hour before this, she should be given a chance to rest in the afternoon. The eight-hour law may be a little short for the performance.of housework, because all tasks are not equally severe. No human being should be required to work from five o'clock in the morning until nine o'clock at night without some chance of recreation, pleasure, or rest. If for any reason a working day must be made this long, some of the following days must be made shorter to compensate for it. It is no argument to say that the mistress keeps long, hard working hours. That is entirely outside of her business arrangement with hired help. A girl must also insist upon having an afternoon for herself, that she may do the personal things her life requires. She should have some chance to go down town to d,o her shopping, to visit a friend, or to indulge in some of the pleasures that her busy life seems_ to forbid. This afternoon should be her very own and under the wise. GUIDE LESSONS. 599 indirect oversight of the mistress may be spent in any way that the girl chooses. Whether or not a free Sabbath is given to the girl, she has a right to demand at least half of that day that she may be enabled to go to church if she chooses, or to have a visit with her friends, or to have another break in the routine of the week. Very few businesses demand their workers to be on hand the seven days of the week, and until housework is planned so that more freedom is given the worker, the supply of trained, maids will decrease. If the Sabbath cannot be gi^ en, then the mistress should supply a greater wage or some other inducement that will counter-balance this disadvantage. — Provision for Companionship. TheJ girl may also require some chance of forming the right kind.of acquaintances. She should be provided with some suitable pla^pe where she may ask "her friends to come and that place should not be the kitchen. If there is no other available room in the house, then some arrangements must be made to have a certain evening when she may have the use of the dining room, or sitting roiom. No girl should receive company in her bedroom, unless very careful supervision is maintained. If her bedroom is made up with a couch into a day sitting room, and there is a chance for other members of the family to have free entrance, then there may be no objection to the girl using her own room for company. No girl likes to have her sole opportunity for companionship with young men to be confined to hanging over th^ gate or walking the dark streets. No good girl wants to meet young men on the street. If she has a gentleman friend, and is proud of him, she naturally wants to introduce him to others whose good opinion she prizes. This is natural and should be encouraged. If the girl has no chance to make and keep the right kind of friends and thus falls into temptation and sin, the responsibility belongs just as much on the mistress as on the poor little girl who has not been taught the great meanings of life. — Respect of Associates. The girl may also demand and expect the same amount of respect in the performance of her work that any woman gets in the performance of any other kind of work. It takes _a great deal of brain power to become a successful home-maker, and if a house-worker respects herself, she will be in better condition to demand the respect of others. The girl should have a clear understanding of her own rights and limitations, that she may n,ot be mistreated cither by her mistress or by any member of her employer's family. Children, particularly, must be taught to respect a maid, and the wise girl will give such kind and respectful treatment to the family that she may demand the same in return. She has a right to resent jeers and ill-timed jokes, insulting references to herself or her work, as v»'ell as the least attempt at familiarity on the part of any male member of the family. She must neither give nor take insults. — Concessions. Since this is an occupation of choice, the girl must he willing to give as much as she hopes to receive. This is merely a law of economics, and is practiced in all the occupations of men and women. — The Girl Must Understand Her Business. Many ignorant girls, scorning work at home, expect to be paid wages in a strange house for the privilege,of learnmg how to work. In no other occupation of life would this condition be tolerated. A person pays ior the privilege of learning his job. An apprenticeship in any trade is paid for in some way. The teacher is the one who should be paid. The girl must be frank and state clearly that she is or is not well-trained, and if she is just learning, she must be willing to take lower wages, at least until she has gained some proficiency in the work. Another thing she 600 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. must be willing to let the mistress or the one who hires her be the judge as to whether or not she is earning the wages she asks. For no one knows better than the employer the grade of work that is being done. — Mutual Understanding of Golden Rule. The girl must know that the ideal practice of the golden rule is a mutual arrangement. She must treat her mistress as she, herself, would expect to be treated, were she in turn a mistress and have work done for her. She would not tolerate rudeness or insolence or lack of interest in work. She must be equally willing to give her best efforts while she is performing her noviate. If she respects and honors her mistress, she may, in turn, demand the same treatment from her mistress. She must feel that domestic work is in reality a profession, and intelligent women take a pride in doing it well. If she can't do this she is not earning the full measure of her wage. If she does do it she may rest assured that any fair-minded woman will recognize her intelligent desire and recompense her in proportion to the degree of efficient service given. No one can do work well if they despise work. They must take an interest in housework; take a pride in doing it well or else it can never be done well. For the work that a woman undertakes to do reflects her own personality. If a girl teels that her mistress does not understand her or is unjust in her treatment, she is perfectly justified in asking for a talk with her mistress and telling her candidly and earnestly how she feels and if she is at fault and in what way. If this give and take, this mutual understanding is a living thing, the two will work congenially together and the whole domestic machinery will be more perfectly adjusted. It is always better to talk things out than to carry a grievance and let it create a final cataclysm. — Brain Worth More than Muscle. There is one thing that every worker must understand, and especially is this true in housework. The great thing demanded of the workers today is not alone muscle power, but brain power. In no kind of work performed by humanity is there a greater need of the exercise of intelligence than in the performance of housework. The wages that a girl commands is measured, after all, by the degree of brain power she puts into her work. The world doesn't want mere muscle work today. This is particularly true of the home. The day of letting the hand do the heavy tasks of sweeping, dusting and washing and ironing and cleaning while the brains are off on a vacation is past. Machinery does so much now that we must keep ahead in order to keep abreast. The performance of every task reqires the full attention of the worker if the work is to be well done. One thing, however, must be understood; a ten-doUar-a-week girl can get her price in any occupation. — Fine Sense of Honor. A girl must cultivate a fine sense of honor in going into a home to perform the work thereof. She must be able to measure values and respect the possessions of the home as well as the time that she uses. She must feel a keen sense of honor as regards her promises. Her word must be as good as her bond; if it isn't, she is a poor and cheap worker. If a girl is not dependable; if she can't be trusted to work when alone; if she has no sense of responsibility regarding the work that she is doing; if she can't be trusted with other people's property, or if her word may be doubted, then she may be sure her services are valueless to every one, particularly in the home. — Note. The class leader may formulate questions on this lesson, or invite open discussion of the points given. — — Z. C. M. I. School Shoes For Boys Are made for service they will keep the boys' feet warm and dry. Z. C. M. I. ALLOVERS are the ideal The Food for play garment Your Family for boys and girls. Cheap, Artificial things always have their day. A fancy breakfatt food serviceable. may be popular for a short time, but since health is priceless, nearly everyone turns, sooner or later, back to nature for pure, unchanged foods, like ROLLED OATS There is nothing artificial about these oats, just the biggest, delicious oats that can be produced in this mountain country, are rolled to a flakiness and a palatability that delights the whole family. You do not have to coax the boys to eat "SUNRIPE" Rolled Oats. Contains the Strength of the Hills" Try Sunripe Koffe-et for a refreshing, healthful drink. "Better than ever." Z.C.M.I. School Shoes for Boys. Are made for service—they will keep the boys feet warm and dry. Z.C.M.I. ALLOVERS are the ideal play garment for boys and girls. Cheap, serviceable. Travel more Locally at Little Cost via Oregon Short Line. Half fare Sundays slightly more Saturdays-Mondays. Ask your Agent for Details. Utah Cereal Food Co. OGDEN, UTAH EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Mapairine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Genealf gical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Utah's Most Popular Music House" SHEET MUSIC 10 CENTS *lf by mail, add I cent a copy for pottage) CENTURY EDITION ii not printed from type plates but by an expensive lithograph process, thus eliminating all imperfedions. Every copy is perfect in itself and is printed in full size sheet music paper of finest qualitv. Prominent English and American Teachers and Musician the world over take special pride in recommending ARCHITECTURE this justly celebrated By GEO. M. ALLEN edition. is in Mrs. Home's Art Book, FREE CATALOG OF DEVOTEES AND THEIR SELECTIONSSHRINES. Send to this office or 1800 to Mrs. Alice Merrill Home, 4 VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL (Mention this Magazine) Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1 9 1 6 are assigned. PRICE $1.26 POSTPAID "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing announces the opening of its thirteenth school year on Monday, September 18, 1916. School term, 8 months. — Course A Entrance fee for the course in Obstetrics, which — includes nursing and invalid cooking ^$50.00. — Course B Entrance fee for course in Nursing, which includes invalid cooking $25.00. — Course C At intervals during the school year, lectures on Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases, Etc., will be given by eminent physicians, surgeons, and specialists. No charge. — Course D ^A class in Invalid Cooking will be conducted by experts; no extra charge for students taking other courses. Instructor, DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS. For further information write to General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman, Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters —and sons—to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls,prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agriculiaral College of the State of Utah. Bead Neck Chains 75c to $300. Come in and look at them. If you live out of town write about them. We show them in Imitation Pearls, Real Pearl, Jet, Amber, Coral and Gold. Bead Chains are always appropriate, always in good taste. McCONAHAY' the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City VISIT CALIFORNIA IN AUTUMN TIME TRAVEL VIA The Standard Line of the We^ Safety, Service, Scenery, Comfort, Courtesy and Convenience Are of Paramount Importance to Our Patrons For Information Call On F. E. SCOTT District Passenger Agent, Phone Was. 6900 City Ticket Office, 203 Walker Bank Bldg. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER, 1916. SPECIAL ARTICLES OFF TO THE WAR Sdna Coray. FEAR IN A LiniE CHILD M Lucy Wright Snow. m6 THEIR THANKSGIVING h^f Ida Stewart Peay. Organ of the Relie.; Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29. Bishop's Bldg.,Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy IQc Vol. III. No. 11. TWO BOOKS Women Encourage Family Record of Temple Work for the Deid A simplified form, with complete Instructions for properly recording Home Industiy this work. L D. S. Family and Individual Record Arranged specially for recording Great credit is due the houseIn a most desirable and concise form, important events in the lives of the wife for the success of home inmembers of the church. These books are sold dustry. In the case of sugar, at $1.25 each she has been broad minded Deseret News Book Store enough to say with the U. S. 6 MAIN STREET Government and great chemists that the beet sugar produced in these Mountain States When WE Make Your Poris as good as any produced in the traits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and world. She does not only reSatisfaction quest home sugar from her grocer, but insists on it. Utah-Idaho Sugar The Thomas ABSOLUTELY PURE Studio UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. JOSEPH r. SMITH, Prksidknt Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. THOS. R. CUTLER, VicK-PRKa. and GkN'L Mqr. EstablUhed 1877 Phone Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY By ELDER Have You Read The Women of The Bible, WILLARD DONE If not, Why not? The book will help you in your Theology Lessons, it will give you a greater insight and love for the Bible characters, and will also make you glad that you are a woman and a sister to these good and glorious women who lived and loved and suffered even as we do today. Buy one for yourself, your mother, daughter or friend. PRICE, 75c For Sale by Deseret News Book Store The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS. NOVEMBER, 1916. For Right Annie D. Palmer 601 War as it Was Frontispiece A Call to Arms Edna Coray 603 How Betty Helped Elsie Chamberlain Carroll 606 A Child's Record Maud Baggarley 610 Their Thanksgiving Ida S. Peay 612 Fear in a Little Child Lily Wright Snow 619 Paradise Lost 622 The Cliff Dwellers Susa Young Gates 623 Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde 633 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 635 Current Topics James H, Anderson 639 Mothers in Israel 642 Music Page 647 EDITORIAL: The Church Militant 648 Guide Lessons 650 ADVERTISERS* DIRECTORY. Patronize those who advertise with us. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bid., Salt Lake City. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City. MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY—60 East South Temple. OREGON SHORT LINE RAILWAY, Salt Lake City. STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J, Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City. THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City. TAYLOR. S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St., Salt Lake City. UTAH CEREAL FOOD CO. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City Utah. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Loga-\, Utah. "WOMEN OF THE BIBLE," by Willard Done. Z. C. M. I.V Salt Lake City. ^'^ rr You Make a ARE WE OF ISRAEL? Wise Decision By GEO. REYNOLDS When you conclude to pay A NEW EDITION your bills by check. account initills A economy, probank NOW READY Paper Binding 25c Postpaid motes industry, inspires thrift. indeDeseret Sunday School Union Book Store Build up your fund for 44 East on South Temple pendence, at I he Merchant's Salt Lake City, Utah Bank. To all savings accounts we add 4 per cent interest. "Tbe Bank with a SALT LAKE'S Personality." LADY FLORIST Merchant's Bank Mrs. Einma J. Sanders Capital $250,000. Member of Salt Lake Clearing House. 278 South Main Street John Pingree, Prest. ; O. P. Scbramm-Johiuon No. 5 Soule, V. P.; Moroni Heiner, V. P.; Radcliffe Q. Cannon, L. J. Hays, Asst. Cashiers. Phone Wasatch 2815 Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City. Utah J Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of sesum for proper burial by the payment of a sniall curing a sufficient monthly amount. The moment you sign your policv your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. RELIEF SOGIBTT DEPARTMENT HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH the purpose Established 1660 Incorporated 1 908 THE [ IT this is UTAH STATE NATIONAL all of Bank at times to render S.M.TAYLOR & Co. BANK helpful service and Undertakers and Embalmers SALT LAKE CITY make the handling SUCCESSORS TO UTAH of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 Years in One Location UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK 251-257 E. First South Street Your Account is Cordially Invited Salt Lake City. Utah Efficient Service, Fair Methods, Complete Equipment JOSEPH F. SMITH. Pres. ; : ; ! — ; FOR RIGHT My Robert was in the convention Where the party's bold scheming is done; 'Twas the first he had ever attended, For the lad had just turned twenty-one. They were counting with fearful precision, The men they could muster in line, To fight in the war that is waging For the tottering kingdom of wine. "You may count my dear mother against you I am sure of the stand she will take She has always been true to the party, But she'll play to no wine-bidder's stake." Thus Robert reported, and added, "In view of the struggle in sight, The stand of my father is doubtful. But my mother will stand for the right." "And what about you?" called a leader. "There is wealth and position to win. And your name has been slated for honors, — You know if you help us get in!" That was threatening, for Robert expected A good place on the ticket that day And the inference was, "We'll support you. But we're naming the price you must pay." I never had dreamed that my Robert Could command so much power and might But he answered "To hell with the party: !" I stand with my mother for right So Robert is not on the ticket For the office he wanted to get But he's on in the fight against Satan, With the busiest men to be met. And his stand gives the key for all conflicts Where Sin flaunts a banner in sight: Though the world should "stand pat" for a party. I must be valiant for right. Annie D. Palmer. — — THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. III. NOVEMBER, 1916. No. 11. A Call to Arms. By Edna Coray. Paul Grayson and his bride had critically inspected every square yard, from ceiling to floor, of each of the four pretty rooms of their new cottage. Now they looked at each other and laughed — not from amusement, but from utter joy for which they knew no better expression at the moment. "And the evening and the morning is the first day. and behold everything is exceedingly good. Mrs. Grayson, we have the original pair beaten a mile — just through your adaptation of their Clara, my girl, weddingless, receptionless, tourless nuptials. !" you're a miracle. I'm perfectly delighted, thank you "I'm just crazy glad, thank you! Paul, you're a perfect dear to humor my whim — oh, I've always dreamed of just this sort of a honeymoon — you and I by ourselves in our own little home, the home in which you let me be really and truly a partner. Dear, I do feel so — so belonging to you and the place!" Paul immediately gave convincing demonstrations of his own blissful state of mind. After a bit he tilted up her chin and gazed into her eyes "Clara, honest injun. isn't there in your soul the: least regret for the showy wedding accessories we could easily have had? Not the tiniest, sneakingist bit of regret?" "Nary a sneak, Paul dear! Everything is exactly as I've wished our home free from debt several years' stores of table: ; linen, curtains and bedding; every needful household convenience; youth, health, and you! What more could mortal woman desire? Oh, Paul, our sky hasn't a cloud, not one!" The husband's response was a rhapsody without words altogether fitting and satisfactory, but was rudely interrupted by the carrier's whistle and the thump of the twisted paper against the front door. The young people laughed appreciatively. "Our sky may be cloudless, but our new paint is no longer dentless, I'll bet a cooky! It's a mercy the glass panel escaped! 604 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, "Just a reminder that we are still on mere earth, and not soaring about it. I'll have our breakfast ready in a jiffy." "And I'll go see what has fallen from the sky!" laughed Paul. Clara's remark about the cloudless sky was still echoing pleasantly through his consciousness, as he looked about for the paper. It had bounced from the porch and was standing on end among the flowers beside the steps. Mechanically unrolling and smoothing the crumpled sheets. Paul glanced about the pretty yard, then — up at the sky it was indeed cloudless. Then his eye roved to the newspaper. "Good heavens, what's this 'President calls out State Militia —De facto troops fire upon American detachment. — Orders to! recruit to — war strength. Governor calls for volunteers!' " the glaring headings in two colors covered a quarter of the front page. Rushing into the house, he startled Clara into immediate forgetfulness of things frying and boiling upon the electric range, and, fork in hand she peered over his shoulder as he read the ominous news aloud. She was as excited as he: !" "Uncle Sam won't stand that sort of thing, that's sure "You just bet he won't, and the states will back him to a man!" answered Paul, with conviction, and Clara agreed, with spirit. "I'll just snatch a bite of breakfast and catch the next car There must be a lot of excitement up town and I must see the latest bulletins!" — "Sit right down and I'll dish up your eggs the cereal is ready, too — I'll eat later — you can barely get the eight car. Paul dear!" The great tidings had shocked both young people into temporary forgetfulness of their own sentimental affairs, for they were thoroughly sensible, and patriotic to the core. "Phone me as soon as possible," Clara reminded him as!" he flung on his coat, "for I'll be in a fever till I hear the news — — "Sure thing good bye darling I'll be back before long," and after a swift kiss and embrace, Paul sprinted for the car. Picking up the paper, Clara carefully read the details Paul had hurried over, and forgot her own breakfast in the exciting perusal. She had just tidied up the kitchen when the expected call came. Paul was too much excited for preliminaries "The whole: town's on the streets! The state guard must have a hundred fifty recruits at once The boss will let fifty of us off on full pay, ! and as about two hundred others are ready waiting, there will be no trouble about filling the ranks. It sure looks like war's upon us, and all us fellows at the shop have volunteered." — ! — !; A CALL TO ARMS. 605 "You —volunteered!" Clara hardly knew her own voice, but Paul seemingly found nothing amiss in it. — "Surest thing you know the whole blooming bunch of fifty We've got to take the examination right away, so I must hurry. I don't know just how long — but I'll send you word as soon as I can. Say, but you're a brick of a girl Good bye!" ! Slowly replacing the receiver, Clara sank upon the nearest chair, and tried to realize what it all meant. Paul had enlisted he was going to war he was leaving her and their little home; the dear place they had both worked so hard for!He might be — gone a long time, perhaps oh it was unthinkable But if he! were ill, or wounded, she could go and nurse him. But suppose — dear God thousands of other widows had faced that alter! native! — — Perhaps there might be a a place for a monument that would help a little. But suppose it were an open battleground where hundreds lay, perhaps mangled, and trampled O heaven above that would be absolutely unbearable! Faint and deathly sick she stumbled over to the couch. For some time there was blank oblivion. At last her consciousness struggled to the surface again and she picked up the broken threads of her harrowing reverie: Thousands, yes, tens of thousands of other sweethearts and — wives had suffered that ghastly bereavement and' yet, somehow, lived through it. Was she such a weakling that she could not survive a not uncommon experience? Was that the comrade of — her own brave Paul and he had called her a "brick!" Oh she must live up to him — she must! These latter thoughts proved unexpectedly bracing, and Clara at once sat up and began serious plans for the future. Of course, without Paul the cottage would be useless she — must either rent it or sell it. She would return to her parents and — secure her old office position, or an equivalent job certainly work of some kind to take her mind off A quick step upon the walk a glimpse of blue uniform a; ; — sharp ring O heaven, this is the fatal telegram! Staggering to her feet she nerved herself to open the door. A blue-coated messenger threw a startled look at her, then: "Mrs. Grayson? This note's for you. Sign here please." With trembling fingers she opened the letter. This is what she read: "Clara, dearest, a great disappointment awaited me at headquarters. Please don't feel too badly, dear, but the fact is. / failed to pass the physical test required for military service. Dear girlie, it can't be helped, so we mustn't fret over it. I know you'll feel as chagrined as I do, but — we'll take in the big show tonight and forget our troubles for the time being. I'll be home just as soon as I get the tickets. Devotedly, Paul." How Betty Helped. By Elsie Chamberlain Carroll. "Dad, I need fifty cents to help buy a base-ball outfit. Us fellers is organizin' an' maybe they're goin' t' put me in captain an' we're goin' t' send off fer the things to-morrow so they'll git here by the time the ground's dry 'nuff t' play." Ten year old Bobby just off to the afternoon session of school, intercepted his father at the front door as the latter reached home tardily for the mid-day meal. Robert Benton's brow contracted into the anxious lines which were becoming habitual, as he looked into the eager, expectant face of his son. "I don't know about it, Bobby. There seems to be so many places for the fifty cent pieces to go these days." "But, Dad," the freckled face lost its animation, 'I just — got t' have it. The fellers is all a throwin' in, an' maybe they're goin' t' 'lect me captain." The man's hand went slowly to his pocket. It was very hard for Robert Benton to deny his loved ones. He took out a small handful of loose change. "All right, son, here you are. But remember that father doesn't get his money so easily," and he dropped a quarter, a couple of dimes and a nickel into the outstretched hand. The young office-seeker bounded out of the door with a gratified whoop while the father turned down the hall with a sigh. "Well, we waited dinner until everything was spoiled. What made you so late?" he was greeted by his wife as he came in to the dining room. "I had to stop and see about some business," he replied noncommittingly as he went to the kitchen to wash. "Nellie, take up some fresh potatoes for your father and get some more bread." Mrs. Benton did not leave the machine where she was busy with some soft blue material and creamy lace. As Mr. Benton sat down to his delayed dinner he reached for the Semi-weekly News on the window seat. "You'd better eat your dinner and not sit reading. Nellie must wash the dishes before she goes back to school. She is going to have a party for her Sunday School class tonight and she'll have all she can do when she gets home. I have my hands full with this dress. I'll declare I dread the sewing worse all the time. I did hope that by the time the girls were grown we'd be able to hire it done." Mrs. Benton gave vent to her feelings in an aggrieved sigh. "Where's Blanche?" the father inquired. "She's over to the hall rehearsing. They've decided to put: HOW BETTY HELPED. 607 the Mutual play on tomorrow night after all. I don't see how I'm going to get this costume done. O, yes, she says she'll have to have a new parasol. It calls for a blue silk parasol in the third act and her old one is green and is too shabby anyhow. It will do for Nellie this summer." "And, Dad, I need some money for my party. I've got to have some paper napkins and a lot of pencils for one of the games, and two prizes? Can I have a dollar?" Mr. Benton had let the paper fall to the floor and he was eating his soggy potatoes and cold meat absently as he listened. "Well, I don't know where all the money's coming from. Newman sent me word today that he'd have to have something more than the interest on that note before long or he'd foreclose the mortgage." "That's just like Ike Newman," Mrs. Benton put in bitterly. "He can't bear to see a man in a tight place without pinching him still harder." "He has really been very lenient," her husband defended. "It has been nearly three years now since we paid anything except the interest and it seems harder all the time to meet that," and the man drummed on the table mechanically as a cloud of anxiety shadowed his face. Fifteen years before, the Bentons had given their note and a mortgage for money to pay for their home. The terms were good and they had expected to be able to pay off the note in a few years from what they could save from the salary the husband received for his work in the local freight office. "Well, I'm sure I don't know how we can get along on any less," Mrs. Benton complained. "Goodness knows that I've done nothing but scrimp ever since we were married." "I know you have, Laura, and that is one of the things I had hoped you would not have to do." Mr. Benton looked across at the woman who bent with a nervous, irritated pucker in her forehead over her sewing. He might have added that many women in her place would have 'managed' more and 'scrimped' less, but Robert Benton was not addicted to such sallies. Instead he took his checkbook from his pocket and said "How much will that parasol cost?" "You'd better make the check for five dollars. I'm afraid I've spoiled the overskirt of this dress. I tried to cut it from the picture to save buying a pattern. Nellie will have to go by the store on her way from school and get some more cloth." "Oh, I forgot. Here is a letter for you," and he handed it across to his wife. Mrs. Benton put down her sewing and opened the letter. "It's from Mabel," she said shortly, looking, womanlike, first at the signature. Mr. Benton arose from the table and went into the hall for his hat. 608RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Rob, come and listen to this," his wife called to him. "Mabel wants to send us her Betty for the summer. She says Betty has been working so hard in college she is threatened with a nervous breakdown, and the doctor had ordered her to the country. She says she can't afford to send her to a regular country sanitarium, and she wonders if we would mind letting her come here. She could afford giving up living in the country to send Betty to college" (Mrs. Benton spoke with ill-concealed disgust), "then asks us to keep her when she is through." She never had approved of her brother's wife. Much less since her brother's death, and her sister-in-law, disregarding her advice, had persisted in giving her daughter a college education. "She wants to send her right away," Mrs. Benton continued. "As if we didn't have about all we could do for now." "Why, Laura," chided the husband, "I'm surprised to hear you talk like that. Goodness knows poor Mabel has had a hard enough time. Of course, we will be glad to have Betty come." "Well, then you had better write and tell them so, for I haven't time today and they want to know right off," she replied with a sigh. Betty Newport had been in M a little more than a fortnight. She was well aware of her aunt's half-hearted welcome. Still the enthusiastic reception she had received from Blanche and Nellie and little Bob, and her uncle's sincere kindness, almost made her forget this one little shadow. Besides, she had discovered that there was a thorn beneath the surface of the Benton family life and her college trained mind had ferreted out the place it lay. Here was a mission for her, she told herself over and over trying to decide on a plan of action. It had not taken her long to learn that her uncle's shoulders were weighted down with a load of debt. It had taken her a still shorter time to see the cause of his inability to lift that load. A few visits to her aunt's kitchen had made her realize the truth in the old saying that "A woman can throw out with a teaspoon more than a man can bring in with a shovel." The old truism, "Waste not, want not," had been grounded into the girl not only by her own thrifty mother, but by four years of careful training in the home economics department of the finest college in the state. It made her heartsick to see the unconscious extravagance in her aunt's household management — or rather her lack of management. "If only I could talk to Aunt Laura," the girl sighed, "and show her the advantages of the other method. But she won't let me," and she smiled grimly as she recalled the frequent rebuffs: HOW BETTY HELPED. 609 she had already received. However, a few moments later she was carefully leading her conversation around to the topic which was of so much importance in the solution of the problem she had discovered. "Aunt Laura, have you ever tried the new household budget system?" she asked sweetly. Mrs. Benton regarded her with superior indifference as she answered curtly "I'd think you would know, Betty, that a) woman with a family and house to look after and all her own sewing and washing and ironing and mending and canning wouldn't find much time to sit around and figure. I've read a little about that nonsense in the magazines, but it's for folks with more money and time than I have. Why, there's to be so much for food and shelter and clothes and education and emergencies and benevolence and savings and I don't know what all. It's discouraging to even read over the list when you don't have money for half of the things you feel like you really have to have. We have a simpler system of bookkeeping than that. We know it takes all your Uncle Rob can earn to feed us and keep us in decent clothes with all the scrimping I can do, so what's the use of wasting time on the rest of that nonsense when it doesn't apply to us in the least." "But it does apply to you, Aunt Laura. You do spend for those other things, most of them. You pay so much for tithing and fast offerings you buy books and magazines you have den; ; tist bills, and the girls give parties, and Bobby has some money to spend. The thing is, to know what you are spending your money for. To see if you are using it with a proper standard of values." The girl was warming to her subject, but she was cut short. "Well, I'd naturally suppose that twenty years of experience in spending and scheming and scrimping would be worth a little, but I suppose that nowadays it doesn't count for much compared with a few high falutin' college theories," and with this parting shot, Mrs. Benton left her blushing niece to go into the kitchen and see what she could find to prepare for supper. The case looked hopeless, but Betty Newport was not one to be easily defeated. Besides, her uncle's worried, anxious face, with its deepening lines and hopeless expression, made her all the more determined to win against the unconscious foes battling against him. Anything else would have been easier. But to open Aunt Laura's eyes seemed to be the one remedy. She was aware that her aunt had many excellent qualities and she felt sure that if once she sensed her great fault, amends would immediately follow. (to be continued.) A Child's Record By Maud Baggarley. Often when compiling genealogy for my family record I have paused in my occupation to muse about the bearers of the quaint, old-fashioned names — bearers long since dead and turned to dust. I have wondered if they were dark or fair, had good teeth or bad. were patient and sweet, or lazy and "cranky," and a hundred and one other things of a like nature. As a rule not even the cause of death is given. This desire of mine to visualize the persons, who are only names to the living, has led me to insert brief descriptions in my record for the benefit of posterity. I read somewhere recently that genealogists elsewhere are beginning to awaken to the fact that there is a mass of material, awaiting their examination in Utah. It is true that mere names are necessary to us in our work for the dead, but a fuller record would answer our purpose equally well, and also afford a vast fund of information to those who study eugenics, heredity, and the influence of environment upon character. Science is hampered in its research work in the field of child culture because of a lack of authentic data. This data, the memory of various mothers cannot fully and perfectly supply. The condition can only be remedied by an intelligent observation of the physical and mental development of many children, with an account of their surroundings and the people with whom they associate, carefully and promptly recorded. This duty must of necessity devolve upon the mothers. Although you, yourself, may not believe in pre-natal culture it will interest your child to know what you did and thought and read before his birth. Then why not keep a record especially for him? I believe that one who keeps a record of a new life, would be ashamed and afraid to bear an unwelcome child. If you feel that you must have an expensive book in which to keep a journal the result will be: good intentions but no record. A good, strong book with an imitation leather cover may be procured from the nearest grocery store for ten cents, and an excellent kodak may be purchased for about two and a half dollars. These with pen and ink and a trifle of "stick-to-it-iveness" are a sufficient equipment. You can even dispense with the kodak if you get good pictures two or three times during a child's life. Write your baby's name on the first page and leave space for its picture. When the babe is born, record its birth, weight and: — A CHILD'S RECORD. 611 any other details that you wish to remember or which might be good to know in after years. Measure and weigh it once a week, note any little ailments, its first conscious smile, appearance of teeth, when it first sits erect, its disposition, when it begins to creep, to stand and to walk, and record everything immediately. When the little one begins to talk and develop mentality, jot down its cute sayings. The humor and wisdom of the little things will astonish you later. Take kodak pictures of them as often as you can, and have them as artistic as possible, and paste them in the book or books. Have formal pictures taken by a good photographer, frequently if you can afford it. You should have at least one each year, according to Sir Francis Galton, the scientist. Paste in pictures of the house wherein the child was born, the schoolhouse and meetinghouse where he first attended, Sunday school, and pictures of his teachers and playmates. You can also put in pictures of his pets. I give my little kodak pictures titles and date each one. For instance, one picture I have is that of a little girl standing on a sort of pedestal and this I call "A Modern Venus de Milo." Above the picture of her birthplace I have written these lines from Wordsworth "Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting. — -The soul that rises with us our life's star Hath had elsewhere its setting And Cometh from afar. Not in entire forgetfulness Nor yet in utter nakedness, But trailing clouds of glory do we come From God, who is our home." I have also in each child's book the names of its progenitors for several generations back. You may think that such a small — book could not hold so much, but just try it! When a book is full call it Vol. I, and lay it away in a safe place. Do not forget that the more pictures you have, the more interesting your book. And another thing, the color of the child's hair is, as a rule, constantly changing, and in order that he may have some idea of how he looked at different periods of life, cut a lock of hair at least once a year and put it in a tiny envelope, label it with name and date, and paste in your book. I occasionally let each child lay his hand on a page of his journal and outline it with a pencil then go over it with ink. Let me say once more that if each young mother would devote a few minutes, now and again, to making a record such as I have described for each of her children, during the first few years of its life, she would live to see the day when she considered its price far above that of rubies. Their Thanksgiving By Ida S. Peay. "It's mother, kids, let 'er in," piped Joey, the youngest, from the window; so Tom took his back from the door, and Mary, guarding the knob, ventured to turn it slowly and take a peep. There was a gentle push from without and a shabby, frail-looking woman in black entered. The baby, as they still called Joey, though he had attained the boastful age of five, went and hugged her around the knees, whining dejectedly, "I want me supper." "Yes, dear, going to have something right away," promised the mother, letting her hand fall in listless abstraction on the child's light curling hair as she looked despairingly around the bare room. "We let some women in," Tom owned up quickly sharing the blame with his sister and, having thus freed his conscience, letting his eyes and imagination dwell upon the small parcels in his mother's arms. Mary looked regretfully sorry but she, too, was keenly aware of the paper bag and bundles the parent was now depositing on the rough table. "I couldn't help it, mother," she deplored with honest concern, "I never heard 'em. We was playing Eskimo and the quilt was our snow house." (It was no wonder they played Eskimo, the mother thought, a desperate ache in her heart, with the snow falling outside accompanied by a stiff north wind and no sign of fire in the tiny stove in the corner.) "It was kind 'a warm under the quilt," the child went on, "and I started telling Joey a story, then all of a sudden I heard a noise an' looked out and there stood two women in the door." The tears gathered in her eyes and at sight of them Tom offered a word in defense. "We kept out all the others," he declared gravely. Mary began to cry, and the woman who had been looking a hard, yet absent-minded, disapproval, softened. "O, well, it doesn't matter so much as all that," she told them, her voice hopeless "I just didn't want any one to come in, or get; acquainted with us till we could get fixed up a little decent." With their feelings thus relieved the children brightened. "They was awful kind-looking ladies," Tom hastened to assure her, with almost a sparkle in his eye. 613 THEIR THANKSGIVING. "Yesser, they was!— they looked jes' like grandmas," chimed Joey showing new life, even without his supper and then we'll eat, "Well, hurry and tell me all about them encouraged the mother. , her face as she Hungry as Mary was, real interest lighted "As soon's I saw them I jumped up an says, began to relate: to the listening parent. 'That isn't exactly polite," interrupted the his behavior proudly Mary's face fell and Joey confessed "But I says to 'em, 'have some chairs —'cause I thought they he lingered over the word—' an I handed 'em was grandmas—" the seats an' they set down." "They was as kind as grandmas," Tom volunteered. was sure good ladies," Mary had recovered "You bet they says 'Where's your ma? her spirit and continued, "One of them wanted to know where, and I says 'Gone to work And she!' She had gone to the factory. And then the other one says, 'An where's he's gone now— at this there your pa?' And I says, 'We ain't got one. was a moment of silence, and all eyes softened as with some sorrowful memory, soon Mary went on: They asked how long we'd been living here, and when I said a month they both gasped and looked around as surprised as when they'd You have, an' says." that kind, and I was sorry I'd said "Did they say they'd found out all that," sneered the around about something woman, though her bitter tone was weakened by a sort of don't want to be angry again. , "Yes, they said they was just going and would call to see you when you come" — I forget what was—and would call Mary finished her recital and gazed with longing towards the table. Her mother frowned thoughtfully a moment, then said briskly, with a faint suggestion of anticipation. "Well, now, we'll have supper." "Goody goody! This is bread, ain't it, mother?" chanted Joey in suppressed tones, touching with a pathetic gesture of affection the small package in brown paper. The mother nodded affirmatively to his question, a queer look of hurt in her eyes, but the next instant, dismissing painful reflections turned with a show of enthusiasm to Tom. "Son I if you could possibly find a few small sticks to wonder the together, grinning and losing "Sausage!" they all cried last memory of the unwelcomed visitors. 614 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. !" "Yes, sir, sausage "Well, you can bet I'll do some hunting," vowed Tom stoutly as snatching up his old, battered cap he vanished through the door. — "O, yum, yum and buns!" harped Joey peeping into the paper sack. "Get your pay tonight, mother?" Mary enquired of the woman in her craving confidence. "Yes," replied the parent, "but I didn't dare spend much. It's only $6 and must last us a week. You children will all need shoes before you can leave the door, and we will be obliged to buy a few dishes and something to cook in — " she began to plan with — her small daughter "I ought to get a big pan as soon as possible because I want to start to mix bread, it's so much cheaper. But before I can mix I'll have to buy flour, yeast cakes, salt, a little sugar, a big pan, a dripper and some coal and a few kindlings and that's only bread; dear me, however can I do it!" a horrified look came into her eyes, but she banished it immediately and came back to the moment's need. "Mary," she said, "would you have the nerve to run into that house next door and ask the woman if she would lend us a tin plate? We'll have to have something to fry the sausage in if — Tom finds some wood but I do so hate to borrow!" The thoughts of having cooked sausage after a month of cold as well as meager fare sent the child flying as fast as she could go, with one shoe-sole flapping and the other entirely gone, allowing the moisture from the snow to soak into her already chilled feet. She returned at once with the plate and as Tom had found a few dry sticks and a pair of men's old shoes on a rubbish pile (discarded shoes he had learned in his school of want made fair fuel) the sausage was fried and eaten from fingers as the four huddled around the feeble fire in the only two chairs the room afforded. The stove cooled off relentlessly quick and the children, their hunger appeased, began to yawn sleepily. They soon pulled off their tattered shoes and crawled onto the old thin mattress and were tucked up by the mother in the only quilt in their possession. "I'm cold," complained Joey, "colder'n ice." The woman looked miserable but said nothing. There was nothing to say or do. She knew Mary and Tom were cold, also, though they did not think the fact worth mentioning. It is those having hopes their wants can be supplied who are freest to express them. Presently, however, the mother knew from the sound of regular breathing that Joey and his bed-fellows had taken refuge from cold and hunger and childhood's galling embarrassments in the wonderful land of nod. For a long time after the little ones were lost in blissful — THEIR THANKSGIVING. 615 oblivion the destitute widow sat before the cold stove, her feet on the tiny hearth, her face in her hands and her mind on the grim battle before her for sustenance. All at once she bestirred herself to light a candle which she fastened in its own sperm on the bare table, and taking the stub of a pencil and a few sheets of note paper from a weatherbeaten old purse began to write. This is what her pen disclosed: "Dearest Mother: I haven't written to you for such a long time, I'm ashamed of myself. When I did write I took care not to let you know the true state of our affairs, because I couldn't bear to burden you with my troubles when I knew you were in such sorrow and straightened circumstances yourself. But now that I see a little gleam of light ahead I'm going to make a clean breast of everything. "When I said we were going to leave Colorado and go ~ further west because Joe was in poor health I told an untruth unless you call the whiskey habit sickness, which is a conclusion I've come to. Joe was drinking so constantly that he couldn't get work in any of the mines of that state so we drifted on towards the coast. We got to the Bingham mining camp and Joe worked about a month. Then he started to drink worse than — ever there was whiskey everywhere in that place and Joe couldn't — withstand it and he's been drinking like a fish ever since. I got a little plain sewing to do and I suppose I could have managed to keep the wolf from the door, but Joe would get my money away from me some way or other so we had an awful time. What we have suffered this last year I can never tell you I do — not want you to know. But you can imagine it has been about as bad as it could be or I wouldn't have done as I have. I've left Joe. Yes, mother, I've got a divorce from my husband. [The tears fell to the paper, but she wiped them away and wrote on] I thought a lot of Joe. I do yet. I'm lonesome for him or, at least, for the Joe he used to be, and I'd have stayed with him through thick and thin if it hadn't been for the children. It wasn't fair to them, you see. I couldn't send them to school last year, as they didn't have decent clothing, and I couldn't buy them anything with Joe getting away with my money all the time. And oh, he was so cruel to us all! Poor old Joe! — he's no more like himself than black's like white. I wish there was some place he could be taken care of and cured. But I couldn't do anything for him with the children depending on me. "Well, it's no use to tell you more. The facts are that I have my divorce and am located in a little factory town in Utah, where I hope to be able to feed and clothe my little ones and get them in school. It's going to be a terrible struggle because we 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. have everything to buy. I left what few household fixtures we had with Joe in the shack poor Joe— "When I arrived in this city I had just $13 in my purse. I found this little board room and paid $3 in advance to occupy it for a month, then I bought an old bedstead and mattress at a second hand store for $3 more, and a tiny stove, rough table, and two old chairs for $4.50; and with the remaining $2.50 I purchased food. We brought one quilt with us — [leaving the other three for Joe] and with that and our old coats we have tried to keep warm. Our supplies gave out several days before I found work, and we were hungrier than we ever were before. "At last I have work in a factory at $6 a week and if I only had something in the house to use I believe I could manage. "Mother, dear, I hope we can correspond more regularly and comfort one another now that we are both left alone. "Write soon to the enclosed address and tell me everything. "Your loving daughter, "Mary J." She did not seal the letter but slipped it into her purse, and after blowing out the candle crawled under the quilt with her brood and fell into a chilly, restless sleep. The next evening, when the new resident returned from work, she found her children greatly excited. "O, mother, mother, something's happened!" they all cried at once as she appeared in the door. A grin of unalloyed delight covered Mary's face. Tom jumped up and down for joy, and the baby hugged his mother's knees joyfully. "Whatever does this mean, children?" asked the breadwinner, staring in amazement both at the hilarious youngsters and at the number of boxes and baskets scattered around on the floor. "The good ladies! —the good ladies have been here —the ones that was here yesterday," Mary felt it her right to explain. "They brought that basket and two other ladies, younger ones, carried that tub of things." "They wasn't grandmas but 'bout as kind as 'em," chirruped Joey "And two men," Mary continued heedless of the baby's interruption "brought that swell little cupboard," she pointed at that ultra useful piece of furniture standing against the opposite wall. —— 'One was a a " Joey meant to supply the details again, but memory failed him, and he turned enquiringly to his elder brother. "A Bishop," said Tom, after studying the ceiling a moment, "and it was him that had this sent from the grocery store," the boy leaned down and placed his two hands on a large box that; THEIR THANKSGIVING. 617 evidently contained eatables, as he laughed in an ecstasy of pleasurable anticipation. "And it was the good ladies that sent this," Mary seized her, turned at the same time pulling her mother to the window. "Yes, sir, coal and kindling,' chorused the boys following and pointing with Mary to the little heart-gladdening pile outside. "But children, children, children!" the mother gasped in an — agonized voice, "I didn't want any one to know I didn't want to take any charity — — I can't bear it I can't accept—" "O, mother!" three children's voices breathed a low heartbroken wail betraying reproach and unbearable disappointment. It wrung the mother's heart — now she knew the extent of their recent suffering. She sank into a chair and burst into tears. Still it was not the gall of destitution and dependence that made her weep but these evidences of the milk of human kindness. "Children," she smiled humbly through her tears, as soon as she could control herself, "we'll take the things, and thank the Lord, and also try to show our gratitude to the good people who sent them when we make their acquaintance." The youngsters could hardly contain their joy. Tom made a cheerful fire and in the comfort of its warmth the mysteries of the basket, tub and box were explored. — In the basket were two warm quilts, not new a like number of sheets, two pillows with white cases and a small well-worn but snowy bedspread. The widow could not resist putting these on the bed at once and they imparted the first look of comfort to the poor habitation. Then Mary fished out a red table cover which was spread with house-wifely pride over the rickety table exclaiming joyously over the note of coziness it added. In the bottom of the basket was a small, white table cloth, also some tea and bath towels. The tub contained the possibilities for cooked meals, and even the mother joined in the hand clapping over its revelations. There was a large pan, a bucket, two sauce pans, a pudding pan, a frying pan and dripper, also some knives, forks, spoons and dishes. Mary lost no time in arranging the plates, glasses and tea set in the upper part of the little cupboard while the boys, jumping up and down in wild delight, packed the contents of the — box which was good things to eat, such as flour, bacon, sugar, beans, potatoes, raisins, dried fruit, etc.— into the lower part. The things in the tub, as well as those in the basket were not new in fact, they looked as if they had been gathered from many different homes — an article here and there that could easily be — spared but they were not less useful for all that in these distressing circumstances. — 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. A really cooked meal was the next thing thought of, and when it was ready and spread upon the white cloth in the variously decorated dishes, and when they were all gathered around the plenteously laden board with anticipating smiles, the relieved breadwinner murmured gravely, "Children, let us ask the Lord's blessing on this food, and thank Him for His goodness!" The little ones could scarcely remember when grace had been said at their poor table, but in their friendlessness and want their little hearts had long ago turned to the heavenly Father so they greeted their mother's suggestion with shining eyes and happy hearts. "O "Why, — yes, let us," they cried. a —— any way " the parent suddenly remembered!" "tomorrow is Thanksgiving Day "O and we'll have the goodest Thanksgiving dinner ever was, ain't it grand!" rejoiced the children. When they had finished the wholesome repast and a new feeling of moderate content warmed all their hearts Joey chirruped, "Now, wasn't they good ladies, mother?" "Well, I should say so," she acknowledged. "I wonder who they were." "O, I forgot," Mary reported tardily, "they said they was — a Relief Society sisters. And they want to get acquainted with us, and want us to come out to meeting." "Mormons!" exclaimed the surprised women audibly, though she was talking to herself, "and after all we heard about them back home — I'm glad I didn't seal my letter to mother won't! she be astonished when I tell her. And we used to think, oh, such!" things NOTICE. A call is made from some of our public institutions for dried fruits of all kinds and dried corn. Any who have these articles to sell will kindly report to our General Secretary, Mrs. Amy B. Lyman. Fear in a Little Child. By Lucy Wright Snow. One of the greatest problems that confronts the mother, in the proper guidance of children, is that of fear in a little child. It is important for mothers to possess some knowledge of the psychology of the child mind, in treating fear, for the reason that this instinct must be anticipated, and the parents be able to guide the child aright. — For really the old advice "an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure" holds good here. For in the improper guidance of this childish instinct, the whole life of the individual may be dwarfed. A youth is not a coward because his mother was, but because she has been unable to guide him properly, by not being master of her own mind. The earliest age in which the instinct of fear has been noted is in the infant of two months old, when it exhibits THE FEAR OF NOISES, and a little later on, the fear of falling, etc. The nervous system of an infant at this age is extremely sensitive, the brain as yet being very plastic and undeveloped he should, therefore, be in; troduced to the world very gradually, thereby giving the delicate, sensitive, nervous system time to adapt itself, little by little, to the big world. The gentleness and mother love, which God will give to every conscientious mother, prompts harmonious and musical sounds, such as mothers' lullabies, and this tends to control fear at this age. Of course, many of our latest writers tell us that the baby must not be sung to, but it is ridiculous to deprive the mother of the divine pleasure of crooning her song of love to her babe, and the babe from that solace. At the time that the little brain is developing so rapidly that it is crowded with imaginations (about three years, or we may say,The Imaginative Age), it is very necessary for the mother to know enough of the psychology of the child mind to be able to properly anticipate these conditions and build a wall of protection around her child at this danger point. We know that a child possesses a natural instinct of fear, which is but abnormal caution, also that other children, possibly ignorant adults, may frighten one of this tender age by such things as dark, death, storm, policeman, etc. Many parents do this, and to those who do, let me say: such a custom is born of ignorance, and the practice is the greatest injustice one can inflict upon a child. Teach him courage in every way possible, and the: 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. fear that he develops naturally will do him no harm. Read to him stories of heroes and brave deeds above all things, inspire; his confidence in God. We fear the results of breaking God's laws, but we should repose such love and confidence in Him, that this fear shall not result in detriment. Then how important it is that a mother inspire a lasting confidence in her child. She must assume the "listening attitude," listening to prevent the telling of scare stories by associates even scare attitudes. If the; child is properly anticipated and prepared, before these scares come to him, they will have little effect upon him. THE FEAR OF DARK. The wise mother lets her little ones know that she visits their beds often during the night she tells them how sweetly they look; while they sleep and of the heavenly influence she feels around them she might say; "Mother will open the window wide to let: the lovely star light shine through, and so you can hear the little frogs croak, and the first call of the birds in the morning." One mother, knowing the value of confidence at this age (three to eight), always made it a point, as she tucked them in at night, to make some reassuring remark, as "The sweet angels love: to be near children and be company for them." A child will ask, "Why can't I see the angels?" The reply is easy "You cannot: see heavenly beings with these eyes, but heavenly beings can see you." This answer serves a double purpose besides satisfying — the inquiry, it suggests the glory of heaven, and this leads us to another important cause of fear. THE FEAR OF DEATH. Care should be exercised by adults in their conversation in the presence of children, concerning death. Let it not be spoken of as a horror, but as the passing to a beautiful Paradise of Rest. Teach by simple stories, how happily we lived with our heavenly Father in heaven before we came here, and how we shall live with Him again when we leave this earth. THE FEAR OF STORM in little children can usually be traced to indiscretion and unwisdom on the part of parents by showing their own nervousness at such times. When a mother has learned self-control, and an abiding trust in the Lord, it is easy for her to cast the same mantle of protection over her child. At the first indication of a storm, let the mother say in an even tone, free from agitation "Oh! mother must hurry to finish what she is doing so that we: FEAR IN A LITTLE CHILD. 621 can go together out on the porch to watch the storm." She may then point out the size, shape, color and speed of some moving cloud, and the child will immediately become absorbed in observation, forgetful of fear. Children love true stories, and there is no time so fitting in telling the story of the Creator, as during a storm. Sometimes a child will ask if lightning will not strike people. The reply must be truthful, but can be reassuring, as "Occasionally, but it won't strike you." A little roughness is sometimes good in treating unreasoning terror and some cases of hysteria, but in an ordinary case of fear, the child should be reassured by a self-controlled, low-pitched voice, free from agitation, and quiet will be restored. Perhaps the child who is most easily reassured in fear is he who has learned self-control. Teach the child the necessity of frequent repetition of acts that frighten him so that use and custom may dispel the fear. FEAR OF THE LAW. A good—illustration under this heading, is the expression too often heard "I'll call the policeman." This expression is equivalent to saying: "I am not able to guide you, my child, I shall have to turn you over to some one who does not understand you as well as I do." Teach the child that an officer of the law is a person who will protect him, will find him when he is lost, and in case of his going astray, will bring him back to his parents for proper guidance. Teach him to love to obey the law, not fear it. In teaching a child not to fear, it is necessary also, to teach him CAUTION. For example, teach him not to fear water but to learn to swim, also the probable results of remaining in the water too long, caution concerning undertow, holes, swimming too far, etc. CONCLUSION. Too many mothers have no time to satisfy the thirsty call of the little six-year-old, for a "true story," and to realize their golden opportunity to teach courage, and the abolishment of fear, by telling such stories of heroes, as: The two thousand young — Lamanites Alma 53:20, 21. BOOKS FOR MOTHERS. Book of Mormon, Bible, Increasing Human Efficiency, by Seashore (Psychological). BOOKS FOR CHILDREN. Kingsley's Water Tell Me a True Story, by Mary Stewart; Babies. The Cliff Dwellers Susa Young Gates. To those who are interested in the prehistoric remains of the ancient peoples of this continent a visit to the cliff dwellings of the Mesa Verde National Park is a revelation. Magnificent scenery, pleasant companionship, delightful traveling to and from the ruins with a series of thrills and enchanting experiences while in the park, made the trip one never to be forgotten. On the way to Mancos the railroad traverses an exquisitely beautiful canyon between Montrose and Mancos, Colorado. You swing around and about, climb up and leap down for miles and miles over pine and cedar-clad hills and finally you enter deep gorges between high mountains, most of them pine-crowned and some of them snow-topped. The road is so dangerous because of land-slides and water seepage, that no night traveling is permitted, and so you must perforce, go to Telluride for the night. If any mountain vale is more beautiful than the little clefted opening which embraces the tiny mining town of Telluride, 10,000 feet above sea level, this writer has never seen it. Before you finally start climbing the last 2,000 feet necessary to reach there, you zigzag back and forth in a pocket canyon where the Telluride Power Plant is located. It is said that this is the first power plant in the world and we were pleased to know that it was established by that pioneer engineer, state builder and philanthropist, Mr. L. L. Nunn, who also built the Telluride plant located in Provo canyon. You loop the loop a number of times, all the time climbing and at last rounding a sharp point, you find yourself on top of a precipice which would make a small Niagara if water were poured over it, but you are not yet on the summit of the mountains which still frown around you and around the little valley which holds the mountain city of Telluride where you find a good hotel and modern accommodations. The next morning you take the car and go descending down the thousands of feet you climbed the day before, until you get to the Telluride Power Plant itself, and then you emerge from that canyon into another. A number of towns are located along the ancient canyon and river-bed and finally you reach Mancos to find friends waiting to take you three miles from the town to the suburb where our people live. Here you hold conference, or rather you assist the presiding Priesthood, who are there holding conference, and enjoy the cordial hospitality of President Halls and his co-workers in that thriving stake of Zion. THE CLIFF DWELLERS. 623 Mrs. Bell Salmon Ross and the writer had a most enjoyable conference August 19 and 20, presided over by Elder Rudger Clawson of the Twelve, and Rulon S. Wells, of the First Council of Seventy. At the close of the conference President David A. Halls invited the visitors to join him in a trip over to the cliff dwellers' ruins. The brethren were obliged to return to their homes to meet other appointments, but Mrs. Ross and myself joined President Halls and wife in an automobile ride over one of the most unique and delightful roads ever made on the shoulders of the hills. There is about three miles of dugway built around the face SPRUCE TREE HOUSE, WITH KIVA IN CENTER. of one great mountain which has, at some places, a 20 per cent grade and is never less than 16 per cent grade. The road is an excellent one, made and kept by the Government, for it is enclosed in what is known as the "Mesa Verde National Park." So narrow, however, is the roadway the whole distance of three miles going up the mountain that teams cannot pass. Telephone stations are located at the foot and along up the road as well as at the top thereof, and those who would go must notify the officers of the park prior to starting out always a day in advance, and then the drivers telephone up and down the road. One must wait if there is anyone coming in the opposite direction until the road is quite clear. 624 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. CLIFF PALACE. We had rather fancied that one must ride along on the plains until one came to the foot of the great cliffs, and then climb up to reach the cliff palaces. As a matter of fact, the traveler first climbs to the top of the mountain, going in and out and around and about more times than he ever did in his life before in the same distance and time, and then rides along on the high mesa, a broad, flat tableland with precipitous cliffs descending to the surrounding plain. On the mesa, after traveling between close-set cedar trees and some pines, one comes right out into a little open space and sees the Spruce-tree House Inn. Walking a few steps past the Inn, one is on the edge of a precipice; and right across are the ruins which are called the Spruce-tree House. The canyon ends blindly at the northern extremity. It is wooded with tall cedars and stately spruces, the tops of which in some cases reach from the bed of the canyon to its rim. Spruce-tree House is situated in the eastern side of Spruce-tree Canyon, and is a spur of the Navajo Canyon, which at the side of the ruins is about 150 feet deep with precipitous walls. You naturally go to the wide porch of the Inn and sit down in one of the comfortable rockers so that you may gaze your fill at the first glimpse given you of this ancient and wonder-inspiring ruin. Then, if your party is ready, you begin the climb down the rocky, precipitous, single path, stopping at the Government office to register as you; THE CLIFF DWELLERS. 625 pass, and then on down and around the bend of the wind canyon about half way around, there is a spring of delicious, cool water, and, of course, you drink your fill before resuming your journey. There is no danger, and not much effort required, to reach this first ruin, but when you get there you are filled with admiration for the ancient peoples who here entrenched themselves from their predatory foes. "The Indian legends regarding the inhabitants of the Mesa Verde," says Dr. Jesse Walter Fewkes, the Government official who has been instrumental in restoring and preserving these wonderful ruins to the Government, "are very limited and indistinct. The Utes designate them as the houses of the dead, or Moki, the name commonly applied to the Hopi Indians of Arizona. One of the Ute legends mentions the last battle between the ancient house builders of Montezuma Valley and their ancestors near Battle Rock in which it is said that the cliff dwellers were defeated and turned into fishes. "Like the majority of cliff dwellings in the Mesa Verde National Park, Spruce-tree House stands in a recess protected above by an overhanging cliff. Its form is crescentic, following that of the cave and extending approximately north and south." The author has given the number of rooms and their dimenCLIFF PALACE. : 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. sions in his report to the Secretary of the Interior (published in the latter's report for 1907-8), from which we make the following quotation "The total length of Spruce-tree House was found to be 216 feet, its width at the widest part 89 feet. There were counted in the Spruce-tree House 114 rooms, the majority of which were secular, and 8 ceremonial chambers or kivas. Nordenskiold numbered 80 of the former and 7 of the latter, but in this count he apparently did not differentiate in the former those of the first, second and third stories. Spruce-tree House was in places three CLIFF PALACE. stories high the third-story rooms had no artificial roof, but the; wall of the cave served that purpose. Several rooms, the walls of which are now two stories high, formerly had a third story above the second, but their walls have now fallen, leaving as the only indication of their former union with the cave lines destitute of smoke on the top of the cavern. Of the 114 rooms, at least 14 were uninhabited, being used as storage and mortuary chambers. If we eliminate these from the total number of rooms we have 100 enclosures which might have been dwellings. Allowing four inhabitants for each of these 100 rooms would give about 400 persons as an aboriginal population of Spruce-tree House. But it is probable that this estimate should be reduced, as not all the 100 rooms were inhabited at the same time, there being evidence THE CLIFF DWELLERS. 627 that several of them had occupants long after others were deserted. Approximately, Spruce-tree House had a population not far from 350 people, or about 100 more than that of Walpin, one of the best known Hopi pueblos." "In the rear of the houses are two large recesses used for refuse-heaps or for burial of the dead. From the abundance of guano and turkey bones it is supposed that turkeys were kept in these places for ceremonial or other purposes. Here have been found several desiccated human bodies commonly called mummies. "The ruin is divided by a street into two sections, the northern and southern, the former being the more extensive. Light is prevented from entering the larger of these recesses by rooms which reach the roof of the cave. In front of these rooms are circular subterranean rooms called kivas, which are sunken below the surrounding level places, or plazas, the roofs of these kivas having been formerly level with the plazas. "The front boundary of these plazas is a wall which when the excavations were begun was buried under debris of fallen walls, but which formerly stood several feet above the level of the plazas." You might be surprised, to know that these ruins contain plazas and courts, balconies, circular rooms and kivas; the kiva being always a circular subterranean room, supposed to be ceremonial room, all of them having a fire-hole with an upright slab or rock, or a narrow, thin wall of masonry placed between the fire-place and the wall of the kiva. There were circular rooms — other than kivas a mortuary room, lodge house, stairways, refuse-heaps, opening upon the main street, while many minor antiquities were found when these ruins were first opened by the famous Dr. Fewkes. They were discovered as late as 1888, but Dr. Fewkes did not go there until 1891. Since this he has performed a colossal labor in uncovering these ruins and restoring many of their unique and interesting features. Our small party reached the ruins about the same time with nearly 70 sightseers who came from Mancos, all in automobiles. The Methodist Episcopal conference had just closed, the evening before in Mancos. and they had been honored with the presence of Bishop Eugene Hendrix who presides over that diocese. He himself was in the party. President Halls knew some of the ministers in Mancos and introduced members of our party to those with whom he was acquainted. It was to laugh when one minister was introduced to the writer with the added explanation that she was a daughter of Brigham Young. "Would you pardon me." said the minister hesitatingly, "what number of child were you?" "I really do not know." I replied smilingly, "my father had 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. fifty-six living children, ten of them dying in infancy. Out of the forty-six I am one, but I haven't the remotest idea just where I belong in the line." The shocked expression which stole over the ministerial features gave way to another glance of eager inquiry. "What number of wife was your mother?" he inquired gently. "I am as little able to answer that question as the first one," I laughed. Consternation reigned. "Didn't you mother know?" he asked. "Not that I ever heard of. I don't think she ever counted, and I am sure I never did, although I am the genealogist of the family. We all lived together in the same house when we were children, and I can't recall any of the wives stating what number they were, or any of the children figuring out just where we belonged. We loved each other and our mothers and we adored father. I never heard one of my father's wives quarrel with another wife in my life. I never heard a disrespectful word spoken to my father or about him by any member of his family. He was a very great man, and an ideal father and husband." All day long we heard remnants of this conversation as we passed groups of the party, in going about the ruins, but everyone with whom we came in contact treated us with respect and consideration, a very different attitude of mind from what some of us knew a quarter of a century ago. From the Spruce-tree House we still went on the mesas to the Balcony House. This is said to be the most difficult ruin to reach. In one place there is a ladder to climb, set against the face of a rock, about 30 feet high; one must climb the face of the rock itself, placing the feet in steps cut into the rock; but we succeeded all right and enjoyed the wonderful view from the Balcony House. It is without question, the most artistic and DETAIL OF BALCONY HOUSE. beautifully located ruin of them all. The breast-high walk guards the outer edge of the precipice. Here one can stand and gaze in awe at the wild majesty of the gorge below, and at the mesas and mountains falling and rising across the canyon. The next ruin to claim our attention was the Cliff Palace, which is so extensive and elaborate as to merit the name of palace, given by its discoverers. We next went by auto to the Sun Temple which, unlike the others, is built on top of the mesa. The theory of the discoverer is that it was intended as a temple or house of worship. The floor bears a symbol resembling a sun. There are three massive circular wall rooms, two in the main plaza and one in the annex. : 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. There are many rooms, entered from the roofs. Beside these three kivas, none of the rooms could be entered except through the roof, which seems to indicate secrecy and mystery in permitting only the initiated to enter. Unlike the other ruins which have been constructed in a more or less haphazard fashion, one building patched on to another, the Sun Temple is definitely planned its walls are very extensive and the dressing of the stones; is very carefully done. The discoverer, Dr. Fewkes, says "Those who made it must have belonged to several clans fused together, and if they united for this common work, they were in a higher state of sociological development than a loosely connected population of a dwelling. "In primitive society only one purpose could have united the several clans who built such a structure, and this purpose must have been a religious one. This building was constructed for worship, and its size is such that we may practically call it a temple," A tree was cut down near the summit of the highest wall which undoubtedly sprouted after the desertion of the building and which had grown after a mound had developed from the fallen walls. This tree had 360 annual rings which would indicate that it began to grow shortly after the year 1540, when Coronado first entered New Mexico. We next retraced our steps and rode back to the Spruce-tree House Inn. There are other ruins, but we did not attempt to visit them. Our party learned that Dr. Fewkes was at the ruins. He is the famous discoverer and lecturer, who had had charge of the ruins under the Government for twenty-five years, and who is now engaged in uncovering another mound which, like the Sun Temple mound covers an ancient temple or ruin. We learned he intended giving a brief lecture to the ministerial party, and we were very glad to join in the courtesy. We found Dr. Fewkes some miles from Spruce-tree House Inn busy with his men and teams, hauling out the red sand soil from the new ruin referred to. Gathering under the shade of the cedar trees, at the edge of the mesa, on the brow of another canyon gorge, we listened while Dr. Fewkes explained to us something of the purpose and plan of these ancient cliff dwellers. He told us that the building he was uncovering was much older than the Sun Temple. He described to us some of the habits and customs of the Indians, suggesting that the Hopi Indians were probably their descendants. He sketched vividly the probable life and activity of this prehistoric people. Among other things he stated that he himself had lived among the Hopi Indians in order to study their tribal language, and thus to reach the root of their traditions and habits and customs. He said they possessed, in common with the Mexican Indians, a belief in the return of the Fair God who would come to! THE CLIFF DWELLERS. 631 redeem His people. When he first went among the Indians to dwell they thought he might be this Fair God. How strange that men will hear such traditions and not connect them with the Book of Mormon After the party broke up, I took the liberty of addressing Dr. Fewkes and told him who I was, offering to send him a Book of Mormon. He thanked me cordially, and said that he had just come into possession of a copy of that Book, given to him by one of his workmen who is a member of our Church. He added that he was reading it carefully and attentively. • On our return, our own little party camped out in the mountains a few hours because of a broken auto axle, and had a delightful visit around the camp-fire while we were being rescued from our comfortable plight. The return journey on the train to Montrose found our party in company with the ministerial party, who were returning at the same time, and we enjoyed a very delightful, occasional visit with the genial and learned bishop who could not forget that I could not remember what number of wife my mother was in my father's family. The gentleman had met one of my brothers twenty years ago, and was very liberal and interested in all that we told him concerning our religion and our people. Such, then, is the chronicle of a delightful visit to one of the most remarkable ruins of ancient America. SUN TEMPLE. WITH KIVAS. Home Science Department. Janette A. Hyde. '' PREPAREDNESS. Since the organization of our Church, and more especially after coming to Utah, our people have been taught the necessity of preparedness, not in the exact war sense, as it is taught today, but in a sense of a general preparation for life in all its phases. One of the first steps toward material preparedness was made by President Brigham Young when he advised each family, in securing land, to take up enough to allow a small portion for a kitchen garden. The culture of this would teach thrift, and give a general knowledge of the soil and climatic conditions. A most important point, however, was that a kitchen garden would produce the amount necessary for the family to consume, not only during the growing and productive period, but for the winter season, as well. I wonder if we have forgotten the early training, and if we are drifting into careless habits, thinking perhaps that canning factories, packing houses, etc., will be able to supply us with ready prepared foods! Are we coming to be known as a people who live from cans and paper bags, saying, perhaps, ''it is cheaper," yet, forgetting the effect it has upon our home life? Are we forgetting, too, that the boys and girls are not receiving the early training necessary to equip them for better husbands and better wives? One of the greatest joys of a real house wife and mother is to stock the winter larder with delicious fruits and vegetables for family use. We should always ask ourselves this question: "What is the most economical and best method of supplying the family with prepared foods?" After careful investigation, we will find that the home dried, canned, and preserved fruits and vegetables are the most profitable to the frugal housemother. Let us not lose the precious inheritance of our mothers and grandmothers, and let ^is add to these the new methods furnished us by the Agricultural Colleges of the country and by our own Home Science Department. Europe has demonstrated to American people what it means to be prepared on the food question, both in times of peace and of war. But we can do no better than to follow the early teachings of our Church, on the subject. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 633 RECIPE FOR CRYSTALLIZED FRUITS AND VEGETABLES. In the preparation of the crystahzed fruit, great care must be exercised in securing fruit that is a little under-ripe. Choose the smaller sizes of fruit for this purpose. The following varieties are really better for this purpose pears, white cling-stone peaches, : and French prunes. Such vegetables as young carrots, tender stocks of celery, and small tomatoes are delicious additions. Peel the fruit and vegetables, and prick them with a darning needle, making several incisions that the flavor of spices, etc., may penetrate to the core. Put fruit over the fire and cook in a very weak syrup of one teacup of sugar to a pint of water. Allow three pints of water to a peck of fruit, putting in a little fruit at a time, till all is used. This prevents sticking and scorching, and the overcooking of fruit.. When the fruit is just barely cooked through, remove and place in earthen jar. Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit, the juice of two lemons and one-half teacup of good white vinegar Mix vinegar, lemon juice, and sugar, and pour the cold mixture over the hot fruit. Let stand over night. In the morning, re-heat the whole, adding to the juices, etc., a dozen whole cloves, a dozen allspice, a teaspoonful whole white mustard seed, a teaspoonful coreander seed, and 10 cents worth of crystallized ginger root. Boil for 10 or 15 minutes. Take the fruit from the syrup, place on platters in warm oven until the outside of the fruit is coated over, or has a dried appearance. Return the fruit to the jar, and pour over it the boiling hot syrup, which contains the spices, etc. Seal, and put away for use. Prunes and plums, may be treated in the same way, with the exception of searing the skin over in the oven, which is not necessary on account of the outside condition of the fruit. Prunes are delicious if pitted when ready to serve, and filled with pecan and walnut meats. These fruits are not only delicious, but make the most beautiful ornamental dishes one could possibly imagine, for table decorations. Arrange in a cut glass bowl the beautiful peaches, pears with stems, crab-apples, plums stufifed with nuts, and here and there a young carrot, with a little green top, as well as a tiny stock of celery, and they will serve as a really decorative center piece for a holiday dinner table. Notes from the Field. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. — Cottonwood Stake. The Cottonwood stake held a very successful bazaar on August 30 and 31. Each of the twelve wards provided a booth and sold food articles, the proceeds going to the ward. The stake board sold articles donated by the business houses, provided for and conducted a cafeteria, and presented a tableaux play with special orchestra music. The funds raised by the stake board were given to the ward organizations averaging $25 to each ward. A children's dance was given in the afternoon TABLEAU OE COTTONWOOD STAKE WORKERS. on the second day, free of charge, and a baby show was conducted at which fifty-two babies under one year were exhibited. Each baby received a small prize, and the winner a special prize. The proceeds from the stake and wards amounted to near $1,000, and will be used for charity. We congratulate this energetic young stake on this excellent and profitable undertaking. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 635 — Hearty Response to a Call. A call recently came to the General Board from the temple authorities, asking for seven hundred yards of carpet-^one hundred yards for the Salt Lake temple and six hundred yards for the Logan temple. The following stakes were asked to contribute this carpet: Alpine, 100 yards Utah, 100 yards Nebo, 100 yards Juab, 100 yards Box; ; ; ; Elder, 100 yards Wasatch, 100 yards North Davis, 50 yards, ; ; and South Davis, 50 yards. It is gratifying to report that, as usual, the request was responded to with a sweet spirit of willingpromptitude, and the carpet has already been received at the temples. The temple authorities and the General Board appreciate this generosity on the part of these stakes, and we take this opportunity to thank them publicly for their hearty response to our invitation. — An Estimate of "Mormon" Women. In a recent issue of the Beach Mirror, published at Long Beach, California, Mrs. Myra Kingman Miller, a gifted author of that city, in an article on "The 'Mormon' of Today," speaks enthusiastically of the "Mormon" women and their work. Mrs. Miller met a number ot our women at a convention in California, during the great fair, and later she visited in Salt Lake City. She says "Raised to think: that the 'Mromons' were a grade worse than the heathens, you may well imagine the writer's surprise to find that after intimate association with a group of women at a great international convention for some weeks, admiring their personality, their accomplishments, their broad-mindedness, on matters of general and national interest, that they were 'Mormons.' It was a test of poise to keep the shock hidden from public notice, but then and here a decision was made to visit the lion in his den, to see and study first hand these women and conditions that created so much criticism, and at the same time were so charitable, so thorough, so conscientious and so likeable. * * * "These 'Mormon' women have been a big factor in the building of this great city of Salt Lake, which was described in a previous chapter, for they are home-makers first of all. They are bright, lovable, intelligent women, above the average. They are loyal, conservative, alert, industrious, frugal, competent, and charitable. They are self-sacrificing, generous, happy, peaceful, contented women of high standards of morals, of large intellects, ; and deep thinkers, and they are giving to the world some of her most prominent business and professional men, some of her happiest homes, and some of her most talented sons and daughters. God bless these women, true to convictions, through trials and tribultaions, through joys and comforts. May their like increase." North Weber Stake.— All Relief Society workers will re636 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. gret to learn of the resignation of Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott as President of the North Weber Stake Relief Society. Mrs. Marriott is a woman of rare intelligence and ability, and was particularly active and energetic in her labors in connection with this position. We take comfort in the thought that although the Society has lost an efficient officer, Mrs. Marriott is still a loyal member of the organization, and will always give us the best that is in her in the way of interest and support. The new stake officers pay the following tribute to Mrs. Marriott: "The North Weber Stake Relief Society sustained a great loss in the resignation of Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott as stake president, and at the first monthly officers' meeting, which ocurred after her withdrawal, a testimonial was tendered her. We were especially favored with the presence of our beloved General President, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, her counselors, Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, and Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon also two members of the stake presidency, ; the stake clerk, members of the high council, and several bishops. "An enjoyable program was rendered and refreshments served. "All who were asked to speak testified to the sterling qualities of Mrs. Marriott and expressed their regrets in losing such an energetic, faithful and intelligent worker as she had proven herself to be. "Mrs. Marriott was presented with a fountain pen and a cut glass vase filled with flowers. She has been actively engaged in Relief Society work for many years, and officially so since the organization of the stake, in 1908. She has been untiring in her efforts for the advancement of the Relief Society cause in the stake, and the community at large. She was not discriminating in the kind of work she did, so long as others were benefited. She served others because she enjoyed the blessed spirit of helpfulness and found it a part of her nature to be of use in every possible manner to those it was her pleasure to help on in the world." At the re-organization of the stake, Mrs. Lucy A. Steers was made president, with Mrs. Julia E. Parry, as first counselor, Mrs. Annie L. Middleton as second counselor, and Mrs. Mary A. Terry secretary. Bannock Stake has recently been re-organized. Mrs. Julia A. Pond, who has been such a faithful and diligent president, found herself obliged to retire from her arduous labors. She certainly carried with her the love and good wishes of all her associate workers. The new officers are: President, Gwynnie Redford; first counselor, Katherine Sorenson; second counselor, Sarah M. McNOTES FROM THE FIELD. . 627 Clelland secretary, Agnes Lloyd chorister, May Barrett organist, Emily Sorenson. — Box Elder Stake. In the Box Elder stake, during the past year, some very successful teachers' conventions have been held in the various wards. The programs have consisted of talks and papers on the work and duties of teachers, interspersed with musical numbers. After the programs, refreshments have been served, and a social hour indulged in. These conventions have been helpful to the general work and an incentive for better service. A paper on "The Mission of the Relief Society Teacher," prepared and read at a recent convention, was exceptionally interesting and inspiring. — Utah Stake. The Utah Stake Relief Society Teachers' department is making a special effort to gather a greater amount of wheat this year than has every been gathered before in any one year. The teachers have been organized and instructd to make a special visit to every houes with a hope of securing at least one bushel of wheat, or the value of one bushel, in cash, from each family in the stake. Relief Society meetings have been held in all the wards on an appointed Sunday evening when one or more members of the stake board spoke on the history and importance of wheat storing. In connection with the subject of wheat, the teachers are also discussing and promoting the Penny Subscription Fund. From a report of the Home Economics section of the Relief Society of this stake we learn that all the wards in the stake have followed the outline as given in the Magazine, and in addition the stake held a Home Economics convention, in Provo, at the Brigham Young University, in February. This convention consisted of three sessions, with eight hundred members in attendance. In March, workers from the extension department of the Agricultural College visited Provo with their special train, and in connection with the inspection at the station, lectures were given at the Central School by Mrs. Gertrude McCheyne and Mrs. Margaret Hull Eastman, under the auspices of the Stake Relief Society. Three hundred women attended these lectures. New Zealand. Mrs. Horace C. Holbrook has just reached New Zealand where she expects to do missionary work in connection with her husband. She has written for copies of the Magazine in order to put the Society there in close touch with the work at home. Current Topics. James H. Anderson. Breadstuffs in the United States continue to go up in price and down in quantity on hand. Peace talk is forbidden in Germany by putting in jail those who engage in it freely. The treatment doubtless is effective. Women's skirts, of ankle length and less flaring, is the promise of fashion leaders this is at least an extension of the; covering factor, for which we are thankful. Salt Lake City's taxes, for 1916, are the highest in history. A notable effect of the present system of assessing and levying taxes is to increase unnecessarily the home-owner's burden. Utah troops, or at least a large portion of them, are being permitted to return home from the Mexican border. They had no war experience. Election success this fall is claimed by both the great national political parties, but the contest appears to be so close that it will take November 7 to decide. Statistics given out by the leading nations in Europe would indicate greater prosperity there than before the present war began. Seems like whistling to keep up courage. Private Banks in Chicago are having a hard time of it, ten having failed during the month of September. Their proprietors have ceased to boast of good times. China was the scene of disastrous floods in September, many thousands of square miles of country being inundated, and more than two million people rendered homeless. Congress came to the end of its session in September. It was not the longest session on record, but bears the palm as the most costly to the national exchequer. Interurban rail extension from Utah County into Sanpete County via Nephi, Juab County, is now promised in connection CURRENT TOPICS. 639 with the electric lines which reach from Preston, Idaho, to Payson, Utah. I. W. W. MEMBERS to the number of 627 were fined in a Pennsylvania town, in one day, in September, the charge being disorderly conduct. All were sent to jail to work out their sentences. Caterpillar tractors in war are pronounced a success by the British, who have them, and are declared a failure by the Germans, against whom they are used it is whether you take an inside; or an outside view. "Mormons" in Mexico find at least one benefit from the presence of American troops there, because the "Mormon" settlers are being protected in the possession of their homes and in the cultivation of their crops. Turkey has consented at last for the Red Cross Society to give aid to starving people in Syria. Doubtless Turkey realized that unless she opened the door to humanitarian assistance somebody else would open it for him. Francisco Villa. Mexican revolutionist and bandit, recently attacked the city of Chihuahua, then retired to the mountains to prepare for other incursions. The incident further indicates that the Mexican problem is far from being settled. Blackmailers who have been using threats of exposure under the Mann white slavery act to extort money from rich men have been arrested in Chicago. The prevalent idea is that the victims could not have been wholly above suspicion of being subject to the exposure. Love on the part of a wife for her husband has been held by the Utah Supreme Court to be a valid consideration in conveying property. Evidently those judges are typical Utahns, who place a practical value on the good wife's affection for her helpmate. Vice in a consolidated district in Salt Lake City has aroused such a protest that the plan to effect this again has been abandoned. The fact that the vice element is there to be consolidated, readily gives the impression that Salt Lake is not such a "clean town" after all. Air raids by German zeppelins continue to do much damage in England, both in the destruction of property and in taking, 640 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. lives of non-combatants; but the English are making a better defense than heretofore by bringing down the raiders with powerful aircraft guns. Annie Wells Cannon, of the Pioneer Stake Relief Society, " has been selected as candidate for state senator on the Republican ticket in Salt Lake county. The distinction came to her as a result of the excellent record which she made as a legislator in the Utah assembly two years ago. Labor-union leaders in New York counted on having at least 800,000 workingmen out on strike the last week in "September, but failed to get one-fourth of that number. Yet even that number shows what great danger threatens should the unions be used as means to get unlawful power and gain. Greece at last has been driven to join the Entente allies, the final aggressive act which compelled the movement being Bulgaria's seizure of the Greek port of Kavala and the sending of a large division of Greek soldiers to Germany as prisoners. Every race in Europe is now actually engaged in war. Romania entered the European war, but is finding the Teutons no mean foe. However, the action of Romania opens a way for Russia to battle for Constantinople from the west, and foreshadows that when Turkish dismemberment comes, Syria probably will come under the dominion of Great Britain a nation in which there is a large share of the blood of Israel, thereby superseding the Gentile Turk in Palestine. Presidential ticket candidates visited Utah the last week in September, J. Frank Hanley, prohibitionist for president, Ira Landrith, on the same ticket for vice-president, and Charles W. Fairbanks, candidate on the Republican ticket for vice-president, all making speeches in Utah at that time. It is easy to see that Utah may be a pivotal State in the November election. The Somme, a department in northern France, of which the Germans have held the greater portion for two years past, has been for three months the scene of the fiercest and most costly battle in history, covering the same period of time. The result thus far is that the British and French armies have almost cleared the department of German forces, which have been driven back to within fifty miles of the Franco-Belgian frontier. The Teutonic sweep to the west and south in France seems to be definitely checked. Mothers in Israel. Autobiography of Mary A. S. Winters. (Continued.) FIRST SUNDAY SCHOOL IN THE CHURCH. One Sunday morning early in June, 1844, I was at meeting in the grove east on Mulholland street, when Brother Joseph arose and said he wanted all the children that could, to bring their testaments and hymn books and meet there the next Sabbath and have a Sunday School. He said, "I don't know as I will be here — I will if I can, but Brother Stephen Goddard will be here and Brother take charge of you, won't you Brother Goddard?" Goddard assented, and then Brother Joseph called for teachers and a number volunteered. He spoke at some length on the importance of this move, and as far as I know this was the first Sunday School in the history of the Church. I attended the next Sabbath and my teacher was Sister Clara Chase. I cannot remember of meeting but twice in the Sunday School when those awful days came that terminated in the martyrdom of Brother — Joseph and Hyrum Smith and oh, the horror and gloom and heartaches and trials of those days. The very atmosphere was so oppressive that it seemed difficult to breathe. Everything seemed to stand still and with such an awful stillness and everyone seemed looking to another for some help, and to know what to do in their awful extremity. Many imagined that Brother Joseph's life could not be taken and the shock to them was doubly great— and all were looking for a message from somewhere, and it came in due time. Our Prophet and Patriarch were gone— and the weight of the Church rested on the body of the Church—and right bravely and unflinchingly did they hold it for the time being —faithfully trusting in the promise that God's Kingdom had come to stay, and would not be broken up, though the headlight was obscured and the darkness was profound. Brother Pratt on his mission in the Eastern States was im— pressed by the Holy Spirit to return home to Nauvoo and while on the canal boat heard the sad news of the tragedy that had been enacted, and tells of the oppression and gloom that pervaded his heart though so far away from the scene of sorrow, and before he was aware of what had transpired. He hastened onward, and — a few days later just as the sun appeared over the eastern prairies, he coming from that direction, opened the door and walked into the dining-room unannounced and unlooked for, the 642 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. — surprise being like an electric shock and truly he brought the sunlight of the Holy Spirit with him — faith, hope, courage and — strength cheer to press onward undaunted. The burden seemed lifted, for he came with the power of the Holy Priesthood, and the light of revelation that had been given him for the occasion, and the hearts of the faithful turned from their sorrow to the upholding and sustaining of the work that our beloved Prophet and Patriarch had laid down their lives as a sacrifice for. Each day as he met in council with Brothers Richards and Taylor he brought us fresh words of encouragement, and soon Brother Brigham, Brother Kimball and the others arrived, each filled with the spirit of their calling and were a mighty phalanx in the cause of righteousness, and through the gloom could be plainly felt, the rod of iron was there, and the majority took strong hold and walked firmly on even unto the end of their days on the earth. I was at the great meeting when the mantle of Brother Joseph rested upon Brother Brigham until his whole being seemed changed and his voice was like that of the Prophet. The people around me, rising to their feet to get a better chance to hear and see, I and my little companion of the day, Julia Felshaw, being small of stature, stood upon the benches that we, too, might behold the wonderful transformation, and I know that from that time on the power of that change remained with Brother Brigham Young as long as he lived on the earth. The faithful and honest hearted were quick to discern the right and took up the armor of the Gospel anew, rallied round the faithful Brigham whose rightful leadership had been plainly shown to them, and went to work with renewed zeal to whatever he pointed out to do. The Temple was hurried on to completion. The songs of the earnest workers as they tugged at the ropes, pulling up the heavy stones to the top of the building were cheering and inspiring as they floated — out on the morning air and all seemed to work with a new interest at whatever the duties of the day called forth, thus fulfilling the saying that the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church. And how little the people of the world can know of the power of the Gospel, for the things of God can only be discerned by the Spirit of God. And oh, the anticipation of the blessings to be received when the Temple was completed! Every soul was nerved to greater effort and the memory of our martyred Prophets was a constant incentive to greater faithfulness on the part of their followers, that they might be worthy to meet them in the — world to come. And oh, those two names Joseph and Hyrum, that were so inseparably connected that one did not seem perfect without the presence of the other — they had lived together and had died together, and their memory was enshrined in the hearts of the people to remain there throughout eternity. They have ever been inseparably connected in my mind even as twins, MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 643 and the wisdom of our Heavenly Father is plainly manifest in taking them both together. Of all that has been spoken and written concerning them for good, the half can never be told, of the wonderful work the Lord appointed for them to do, and made them equal to the magnitude thereof, and it remains only for the rest to fill their missions in like manner, according to their calling, and be prepared for the joys of a well-earned place in our Father's Kingdom. Oh, how my heart rejoices over the faithful, and I constantly want to bear testimony of the many faithful ones that I have been acquainted with and associated with in this kingdom and the Holy Spirit bears testimony to me that they will be accepted of our Father as jewels in his crown. And oh, how I pray and trust that their posterity will hold on to the faith of their progenitors and not stray too far from the fold, and all be gathered in at the last day. And while I rejoice over the faithful, I also sympathize with the erring, for I know full well the sorrow they will experience when their eyes are open to see the wrongs — they have done and the spirit of repentance brings to their minds their lost opportunities of their progress and advancement in the Kingdom of God. When the Temple was far enough completed to begin giving endowments my Pa and Ma were of the first company to receive those blessings. Each had a special and individual invitation to attend those services and it was the first time for women to receive such blessings in a Temple in this — dispensation though some had received endowments in other places previous to this time. My Pa and Ma had been sealed for eternity before the Prophet's death — Brother Hyrum performing the sealing. My mother was sealed first as proxy for her hus— band's first wife, Thankful then she was sealed for herself and after that gave to her husband Sister Elizabeth Brotherton for a third wife — all sealed at the same time. This was told to me upon their return home the day that it occurred, and I believed it as much as if I had seen it with my own eyes — and those who assert that endowments were not given in the Prophet's day, tell what they want to be so, and not what they know to be true, for I here bear testimony that I ironed the garments that my Pa wore, previous to the Prophet's death, and I know this is so. I went in the Temple many times during the beginning of the winter of the year 1846 and became quite familiar with the ordinances of the Holy House, but I ever kept them sacred as I had when I received for my own individual person. At the homes of the Saints all were busy preparing for the great journey into the wilderness that was to begin as soon as the weather would permit. It was on the 14th of February, 1846, that our teams crossed the Mississippi and started westward — six big emigrant wagons, — or three-seated carriages, and a one-horse wagon the latter ac— 644 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. companied by my mother and her family, with little Parley driving old Dick. Mother had arranged her wagon quite comfortably. Grandfather Frost had made some chests to fit the wagon in which were packed all that it was wisdom to take with us and on which our bed was made, and we had a place in front to sit and ride. The most of our provisions were in the big wagon, but mother had a goodly supply cooked and along with us ready for immediate use and which we children commenced calling for as soon as we had got fairly started. After crossing the river on the ferry boat it commenced snowing, and as we traveled along we passed camp after camp of the Saints just by the roadside —sitting round the camp-fire with the snow coming down in — great flakes and melting under their feet women and children — with damp and drabbled clothing men wading round caring for the cattle that were to be their propellers to a place of safety mothers trying to prepare food for their families over the blazing log heaps, a sight fit to daunt the stoutest heart, but no — every one of our acquaintances that we greeted in passing had a cheering word and a smiling countenance, one of which I must make mention. Mother McArthur, 60 years old, was seated by her camp-fire with an umbrella over her head and the bread pan in her lap, making some of her good biscuits —Father McArthur — standing close by, fixing the fire and the bake kettle this sight brought the tears to our eyes, but she cheerily called out, "Won't you stay to dinner?" and as our train passed on she, with smiling face said, "We'll overtake you before long." Such is the heroism of the women of "Mormondom," but words would fail to tell it all and we can only look for the record of it in the archives above. After passing on a few miles we camped at Mother Gee's place — Pa Pratt joking by telling her we would "eat our own bread and wear our own apparel" if we might be permitted to camp on her farm. We had been acquainted with her family in Kirtland, and the request was cordially granted. Brother Gee had died some time before, but she and her family still occupied the home farm. Mother's baby, Moroni, had the croup quite badly this night, so she stayed in the house with him and nursed him up, and he was soon over it and well again. After three days we moved on a mile and a half and camped in a large, new log granary with a bin of corn in one end, and a nice lot of potatoes in the cellar, of which the owner told us to help ourselves, so we feasted on parched corn and hulled corn and roasted potatoes, as only people camping out could do. There were besides my mother, six other wives and two babies, Brother Rogers, wife and two children, Uncle William Pratt and Brother Whitaker as teamsters, Parley Jr., Olivia, Moroni and myself, making quite a patriarchal family to be looked after. When we had been out in camp a week, Pa Pratt decided to return to Nauvoo to get some — MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 645 fittings for the wagons that would be needed on the long journey. As he was going in the carriage he told mother she could go too, and see her parents and sister once more before they returned to their home in Maine, where their only son had urged them to come, instead of taking the long journey into the wilderness, and which they had been counseled to do on account of their great age, and the hardships they would have to meet. Accordingly, mother took Moroni with her, expecting to return the same day, but as the blacksmiths were busy Pa could not get his irons for a day or two, and told mother she had better stay till he would come back in a day or two for them. — The weather had been growing cold for some days the next day was colder and the third day when Pa arrived at the river it was so full of mush-ice that the ferry boats could not run and he returned to camp, bringing this word. The cold still increasing the river froze over, but the ice was not strong enough to bear up a man on a horse, and for two weeks all communication between Nauvoo and Iowa was cut off. Mother was in Nauvoo Ollie and I were in camp. We slept in our wagon and it was so cold that Sister Phebe Pratt who slept with us, frosted her feet. A War Time Reminder We present to our readers the photograph of Mrs. Laura Anna Myers, now Mrs. A. W. McConahay, of Van Wert, Ohio. She is the mother of our well-known and popular jeweler, W. M. McConahay, of this city. When a very young girl Mrs. McConahay saw her friends and associates embark on that awful struggle between the North and the South. As the troops were leaving her own home town of Greenup, Kentucky, a state and town that were about evenly divided between the North and the South, she presented the Stars and Stripes to the company with the following speech. Just now it is especially interesting, as war topics fill the air. Flag presentation speech to a company of the tenth Ky. Cavalry, recruited at Greenup by Captain Jacob Nelson, August 21, 1862. By Mrs. A. P. McConahay. Soldiers: In behalf of the citizens of Greenup, I stand here today to tell you how sad we feel at parting with husbands, brothers, and sons. How lonely we will be without you! How 646 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. much we will miss your kind faces, and manly forms by the fireside, in the church and everywhere Hearts of mothers, wives, ! and sisters will grow sad and faint for your return, and yet, soldiers, we send you forth with prayers and blessings, even with heartfelt pride. Ye are our noble kin. We need not exhort you to a love of country, which even now beams in every eye before me, and shows itself by your noble resolve to die in its defense. We need not tell you to be brave, for we feel that no true son of Kentucky can be a coward. I know your hearts burn with generous and patriotic emotions. May the thoughts of the honored dead, whose bones now lie mingled with the soil of every state, fallen in the great struggle for American Liberty and MRS. W. MCCONAHAY. their immortal leader, teach you to emulate them in all that is pure, noble, and brave. God in his wisdom has transmitted to us this great and good Government with all its estimable blessings which our fathers. through many years of hardship and destitution, fought to establish. In an hour of folly and madness and blind ambition its destruction has been sought, and an attempt made to sever it from that Union by which alone its existence is made sure. Soldiers, we look to you to guard and defend it. Go forth to your country's call, full of faith and reliance in that — ; ; ; — — ; A WAR TIME REMINDER. 647 God who watched over and protected your fathers in the hour of battle and great trial, and it shall again stand forth in the strength of its manhood, full of its original spirit, stretching forth its protecting arm to all friends who gather around it, growing brighter and brighter, stronger and stronger, until beneath its genial influence all nations shall love the emblem and symbol of Freedom. In behalf of the citizens of Greenup, I have the honor to present this banner, and to you as the representative of this noble band of patriots and soldiers, I will say. — Take this banner, may it wave "Proudly o'er the good and brave When the battle's distant wail, Breaks the silence of our vale When the clarion's music thrills To the heart of these lone hills "When the spear in conflict shakes And the strong lance shivering breaks. "Take thy banner, and beneath The war clouds encircling wreath Guard it 'till your homes are free — Guard it God will prosper thee In the dark and trying hour In the breaking forth of power, In the midst of steed and men, His right hand will shield you then "Take thy banner, but when night Closes round the ghostly fight Of the vanquished warrior, bow. Spare him by our holy vow. By our prayers and many tears By the mercy that endears Spare him, as you would be spared. "Take thy banner, and if e'er. Thou shouldst press the soldier's bier And the muffled drum should beat To the sound of mournful feet, Then this spangled flag may be Martial cloak and shroud for thee." EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Home Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. III. NOVEMBER, 1916. No. 11. THE CHURCH MILITANT. Preparedness We hear a great deal about preparedness today, a Tenet of The Church militant is always in favor of prethe Church. paredness. And who can deny that the Church of Christ is always the Church Militant. Life is motion, activity, growth, expansion. Death is stagnation, inaction, passivity, contraction. All growth is aggressive. If the individual, the nation, the Church, would grow and develop there must be activity, aggressiveness, preparedness. The Savior drove out the money-changers with a stinging whip. He forgave His enemies, and He was called the Prince of Peace but He — Himself said He came not to bring peace, but a sword. He knew that peace was possible, to the individual and to the nation, only through struggle, strife of forces, and the final achievement of righteousness. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was with us, one of his proudest titles was General of the Nauvoo Legion. Brigham Young sent a corps of brave soldier boys out into the mountain fastnesses to protect his people and their homes, in 1857. He charged them to shed no blood except in self-defense, and summed up the situation in these pregnant words: "Boys, say your prayers, and keep your powder dry." ; EDITORIAL. 649 The cry of peace, peace, sounds throughout the Peace, Peace, world, when war is raging everywhere. We Where There want peace, we strive to put our individual is no Peace., selves in harmony with divine and human law, so that we can be at peace. Our nation is at peace, but why should anyone want to go to war with us? We are too far away from Europe, too near the Mexicans. But we should be prepared, and well prepared, too, to guard our country's honor and the lives of her people. We want honorable peace but not peace at any price. When a burglar enters your bedroom, you'll We Must be be mighty glad if your husband has a pistol Prepared, handy and uses it, if necessary, to protect you and your home. If you live in a quarrelsome neighborhood, and your husband has occasion to go out on the street while there is a melee in progress, you will be glad your husband has means of defense, and be sure the quarreling neighbors will know if he has it, and will avoid attacking him as he passes by. No true woman enjoys association with cowardly men. She despises white-livered, mealy-mouthed apologizers, who not only turn their third cheek for assaults, but make doormats of themselves for their assailants. We — want peace but the conditions must be right before we can ever expect to achieve peace. — This nation is at peace not because any certain man or set of — men have arranged it that way but because of our isolation, our youth, because we "spanked" Spain in the Cuban war, and set her down so hard that the rattling of her teeth resounded all over — Europe but above all, because the Lord so wills it. Moreover, Latter-day Saints ought to know why this nation is not at war. Read your Book of Mormon. Well, war is not the worst calamity. Death, a What if War glorious, honorable death, is far more to be preShould Come? ferred than an ignoble, impure, pusillanimous life. People talk about death as if it were the grave of all hope, all effort, all growth. We know better. Death is an open door to a better life. — Many men men whose morals are corrupt and whose bodies are disease-ridden— would be far better dead than alive. Such men should not be permitted to propagate their species. And if good, true men die on the battlefield, their end will be more glorious than their beginning. Let us. as Latter-day Saint women, pray and hope for honorable peace, but dread dishonor, stultification, inaction, slothfulness, vanity, all lusts of the flesh, and the abominations of the world, for ourselves and for our sons. Let us achieve action, progress, fulfilment of prophecy, expansion, and cultivate the aggressiveness of the gospel of truth and righteousness. ! — Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in October. WOMEN OF THE BIBLE MARY References: Read Luke 1:26-56; 2:1-7; 2:41-52; John 2:111; 19:25-27. Which Mary, do you ask? There is but one to consider the Mary — she who has the unique distinction of being the mother of God. Among womankind she stands absolutely alone, the envied and the adored. To this high privilege of hers, generations before her day looked forward to this great fact in her life, ; generations after her have looked back with reverent eyes, and blessed her name. What genuine woman would not give all she has to be so esteemed of men and of angels? Motherhood, to the Hebrew woman, meant more than it could possibly mean to the woman of any other nation whatsoever. And for this reason Besides the instinctive longing for maternity: that pulsates in the breast of every normal woman, the Jewish woman dwelt constantly in the thought, which grew into the hope, that she, of all the women of Israel, might become the mother of the Messiah — of Him who was to strike off the yoke from the necks of the Jews and redeem the whole people. For throughout all the years, from the days of Sarah who "conceived in her old age" to the self-righteous Pharisee who twisted and misinterpreted the Scriptures, the prophecy later embodied in Isaiah's words, "Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, " and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is 'God with us,' was understood in a very literal sense by those to whom it was given. And Mary was the choice of the chosen, the blessed of the blessed The Latter-day Saints do not envelop Mary in the mist and remoteness that most others do in the Christian world. They do not pray to her as the intermediary between them and her glorious Son. On the contrary, they hold her in a high and substantial — reverence a reverence that has its basis in an intelligent understanding of the great law of life and progress and that would be utterly impossible to a mind beclouded by the generally accepted notions of "the immaculate conception." : ; GUIDE LESSONS. 651 Mary's uniqueness, therefore, consists in the fact that her Child, in the words of Dr. Talmage, "was begotten of Elohim, the Eternal Father, not in violation of natural law but in accordance with a higher manifestation thereof." Nor should this idea shock one's sense of sanctity who has the conception of woman's function in life that he ought to have. Rather does it exalt her into companionship with the highest intelligences, and place sex relationship among the highest functions in individual life. The same angel who visited Zacharias appeared to her. But her attitude was different from that of the priest, for she said, after the announcement of the birth of Jesus: "Behold the handmaid of the Lord be it unto me according to thy word." After; this, as we know, she paid a visit to her cousin Elizabeth. On this occasion it was that she gave expression, as Luke tells us, to the "Magnificat," through which her spirit shines "My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior. For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall; call me blessed. He that is mighty hath done to me great things, and holy is his name. His mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation. He hath shown strength with his arm he hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exalted them of low degree. He hath filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he hath sent empty away. He hath holpen his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy, as he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed forever." Her confinement took place at Bethlehem, although her home was at Nazareth. After the birth, when it appeared that Herod wished to kill the new-born King of the Jews, Joseph took his wife and the Child to Egypt. About two years later, when Herod was dead, the couple returned with Jesus to their home town. Here Mary lived, most probably, all the rest of her life, not counting her yearly visits to Jerusalem to attend the feasts of the Passover. It was on one of these visits that Mary and her husband missed Jesus and found Him later discoursing in the temple with "the doctors, both hearing them and asking them questions." "And his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing." And it was His mother that "kept all these sayings in her heart." We read of her again at the marriage at Cana. She tells her Son, who was at the feast, that all the wine was gone and later instructed the servants to do "whatsoever he saith unto you." After this, on one or two occasions, we find her evidently following the great Teacher, standing without the circle of people that generally surrounded Him. The last glimpse we get of her is at the cross, which must have been full of agony not only for Him 652 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. but for her. She and John were standing together. When Jesus saw them, He said to her, "Woman, behold thy son," referring doubtless to His disciple for immediately afterward He said to; John, "Behold thy mother." And the "disciple whom Jesus loved" took her to his own home "from that hour." QUESTIONS. 1. Give all the facts that you know of Mary in their order. 2. In what sense is the fatherhood of Jesus generally understood by Christians? 3. In what sense do the Latter-day Saints understand this matter? 4. Which satisfies your intelligence the better? Why? 5. Why should Mary be so highly regarded by Christian nations? 6. Why did Jewish women desire motherhood? 7.What are the reasons for desiring maternity today among the Latter-day Saints? 8. What do you think were the traits of character of Mary? (In answering this last question do not say what you do not have any authority for.) LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in December. LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in December. GENEALOGY. ANGLO-SAXON SURNAMES. It will be interesting and profitable for the class to take up a brief study of the early history of Great Britain. This can be done from any school or library history. There should be a little inquiry made into the invasion of Britain in the third century by the Saxons. A little should be learned about Hengist and Horsa — — a century later A. D. 449 with an inquiry into the invasion of the Angles and Saxons and Jutes of the southern coftnties of England. It will be impossible to get a comprehensive knowledge of English surnames without this preliminary study into early English history. GUIDE LESSONS. 653 The Saxons, as all of these barbarian Teutons were called by the conquered Britons, were fierce, warlike and savage in their conduct and traditions. The Roman civilization which had been planted there by the efforts of Emperor Claudius was swept violently away by the Saxon invaders. The courts, forms of office, laws of marriage, and inheritance were suppressed. Even the language of science, of business, and of daily conversation which had been introduced by the Romans, was lost in the general revolution. By the end of the fifth century, England had lost all practical trace of both the Celtic and the Roman customs and nomenclature. The Saxons, like all primitive peoples, had but one name, and like all such peoples, the name was given because of some bodily blemish, or perfection, some condition of the parents' mind when the child was born, or because of some whim or impulse which actuated the parent or guardian in giving the name. In every intelligent community the giving of the name has always been regarded as a solemnity, often accompanied with a religious rite. — Personal names, later called Christian names those simple individual names which were given by the Saxons to their children, were but for the life of him to whom they were attached they — died with him and were not passed on to his descendants. The Saxons knew nothing of surnames as such. Many Saxon names became moulded into surnames after William the Conqueror hitroduced the foundation habit of making surnames. Such names as Harold, Ethelreda, Edith and Ermentrude are all Saxon names. Osbern, which came over from Juteland, Jalf, Juin or Juing which was the Norman scribe's spelling of Young, were common in those days. Gamel, meaning senior, was the father. Aylward, Aluric, Leofwin, Finn, meaning Dane; Syward, Thorlog, Tovie, Ulward, corrupted later into Willard, and Dolfin. These are some of the names which were given by the AngloSaxons. Childe was often given to the youngest member of the family, but the Anglo-Saxons had no known surnames whatever except in the way of added nick names or sobriquets. There was Harold the Unready, Osbern the Red, signifying the color of his hair, and Eric the Black, or Black Eric, meaning the eyes and hair color of the possessor. "Among the Angles, Saxons, Teutons of Germany, and Scandinavians, an almost unlimited variety of personal names existed. These could be formed with facility by combinations, in v;hich the designations of gods, beasts, and birds, even of inanimate objects, could be made use of, with expletives added. "The deities from whom they drew their origin, who reigned in Valhalla, and ruled the course of events, were the Aesir, the singular of which is As. Hence came such names Asbjorn, Osborn (the divine bear) Asmund, Osmund (the hand of the god) ; ; : 654 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Aswald, Oswald (the power of the As) ; Oswin (the friend of the ancestral deity). "Or, again, a special deity was honored, as Thor, the Thunderer; Thorfrid is the Peace of Thor; Thorbjorn, the Bear of Thor. An archbishop of York who died in 1140 was Thursten— the Sacrificial Stone on Thor, across which the spine of the victim was snapped. "In the temples and at religious feasts a caldron was employed, filled with blood, that was splashed over the image, and v>'hich was used as well for boiling the horseflesh for the sacrificial feast. This was the kettil, and hence we have Thorketill and Osketill. "Frey was another god. Freymund was the Hand of God, — and Freystan still among us as a surname. Freestone the Stone — of Frey. "Gud was a name employed before Christianity was finally accepted, as a name of God, without any very fixed idea being attached to it; but when the English were converted it entered into numerous combinations, as Guthfrid (the Peace of God), Guthrie (the Power of God), Godwin (the Friend of God). "Arn, the Ea,gle into which, according to myth, Wuotan had transformed himself, gave names, as Arnor (the Eagle Arrow), Arnvid (the Eagle Wood), Arnkill (the sacrificial kettle of Odin the Eagle). The Finns, from whom tribute was taken by. the Norwegian kings, were regarded with not a little awe as necromancers, but marriages were entered into with them, and the name of Finn penetrated into the nomenclature of the offspring, as Finnlong, Thorfin or the name Halfdan was employed, indicative of mixed blood. "Qualities also entered into the) composition of names, as Ethelburg (the noble stronghold), Ethelred (the noble counselor), Eadward (the defender of his property). The list might be greatly extended, but this must suffice." We give here the list of Anglo-Saxon and Danish names found in Domesday Book Aben, Achi, Acum, Aedric Grim, Aelfag, Elfag, Aergrim, Ailm, Ailmar melc, Aki, Aldene tope, Algrim, Alii, Alnod Grutt, Alric, Alsi Bolla, Alured biga, Aluric, Alward, Alwin, Amod, Andrac, Anunt dacus (properly "Omund the Dane"), Ape, Appe, Archilbar, Ardegrip, Aregrim, Arngrim, Aschilbar, Aseloc, Auto, Azor, Baco, Bar, Basin, Biga, Bil, Boda, Bode, Bodus, Bou, Bu, Boui, Bricstoward, Brictuar Bubba, Brihtuold, Bunda, Bonde, Bondi, Buni, Bondo, Caflo, Cava, Cavo, Cavus, Celcott, Cheteber, Chetelber, Chetelbern (properly Ketelbjorn), Clac, Col, Cola, Cole, Colle, Colo, Coole, Couta, Crin, Dedol, Doda, Dode, Dodo, Don, Done, Donne, Donnus, Edlouedief, Elmer, Edric, Edwin, Edward, Eldille, Elsi, Epy, Ergrim, Esber (properly Osbern), : GUIDE LESSONS. 655 Eurewacre, Felaga, Fot, Fnglo, Gam, Game, Gamel, Gamelcarl, Gamilbar, Gumelbar, Gamiltorf, Gathne, Gilepatric, Glunier, Godtovi, Goleathegn, Gold, Golnil, Gos, Gribol, Grimulf, Haltor, Heltor, Huna, Hunus, Hunc, Htmi, Hunic, Hunni, Hunnett, Jalf, Jaul, Juin, Juing, Kee, Kettelbern, Kettelbert, Lambecarl, Leswin, Lewric, Lewin, Lure, Maban, Munnius, Magno, Suert, Moithar, Offa, Osbert, Oslac, Phin, Pin, Ram, Ramechil, Roc, Rozo, Saleman, Salpus, Sbern, Scheit, Scett, Scotcol, Seiar, Seiard, Siward Bar, Siward barn for Bjorn, Sessi, Sindi, Snellinc, Snode, Snot, Sol, Spriites and Spirtes, Spert, Stam, Stanker, Ster, Sterr, Sterre, Stur, Strui, Suartcol, Swenus Suart, Thol, Thole, Tholi, Tol, Toli, Thor, Tor, Tou, Toul, Tovi, Towi, Tiirlogi (properly Thorlaug), Uuward, Unfac, Wadel, Wadhel, Welp, Wilegrip, Wit, Elward Levet, Wardrou. QUESTIONS. Who were Hengist and Horsa? How did the coming of the Angles, Saxons and Jutes (or Danes) affect the languag^e of Great Britain? What was the character of the Saxons? What other people had but one name? What can you say of Christian names? Give instances of Saxon names. Reference Books "Story of Family Names," by S. Baring-Gould. "Christian Names," by Charlotte Yonge. "English Surnames," by Beardsley. These books can be purchased through the Genealogical Society of Utah. They can be consulted in most public libraries. If libraries are without them, ask to have them put in stock. ART AND ARCHITECTURE. December. "on earth peace, good will to men." This is the Christmas month, and let our art work consist of bringing something beautiful into the home, not from the shops, but from Nature which is never tired of giving to those who seek. Put on thick boots and let us go in search of the wild Christmas holly. On the mountains we will find mountain ash, wild rose berries, joint-grass by the creeks, and the Oregon grape, or mountain holly, and in the highest spots mistletoe may be found. If the snow blanket is not heavy, rose berries will still be intact and the Oregon grape will still be found under the light! 656 RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE. snow. The beautiful "box" will be seen in patches on the creek banks. These will make a festive Christmas decoration, and will be more admired than the commonplace Christmas holly, so you may carry home gunny sacks of beautiful sprays from your own mountains. DECORATION. Don't forget the Christmas table. If there is nothing green in your vicinity, make mats for your table. I have seen my mother fold and cut ornate, lacy mats of green from green paper to put under the meat platter and the vegetable dishes. She made bells of red to hang over the mantel. I often use English ivy which is effective on the lace curtains in little sprays and in long festoons hung over chandeliers, shelves, sideboard, pictures, clock and favorite family portraits. And in keeping with all this, the ivy should complete the table decorations. Unique place cards for Christmas may be made with bunches of green slipped through a slit in the card. Be sure and add a Christmas wish with the name of the guest. An old English custom is to bring in "The Christmas Rose," which might revive. QUESTIONS. a. Describe Christmas Day with the snow blanket. What are the colors of the shadows? Describe the appearance of the snow-covered foliage. Describe the sky of Christmas night, the stars in the sky, and the landscape with the lights in the houses. Tell a unique way of dressing the Christmas tree without the cheap tinsel decoration so commonly used. The first Christmas tree we had for our children was decorated with Japanese trimmings which we hunted out from a Japanese store. There were tiny colored jugs, small teapots, fans, tiny baloons and lanterns. Every kind of animal we could find made by those cunning Japanese workers, as chickens, monkeys, etc., we hung on the trees. An artist friend in whose family were no children, gave us some icicles of glass, little jars brought from Europe, and many other interesting trinkets. The candlesticks were tiny flowers with a device to cling to the tree. A few paper baskets made by my mother, and always a stork hanging in the top of the tree, made a charming work of art for the children to enjoy. No commercial or vulgar toys were used, and many were the children that came to view it. Each thing was treasured from year to year with always an addition of something rare or unique. Kow different from the many foolish, gaudy trees I have seen, and which other people seem to take some pleasure with b. Suggest a unique plan for hanging up Christmas stocking GUIDE LESSONS. 657 Use the French fashions of puttingthe shoes to receive the gift for a novelty. c. Do you think it possible to give a valuable art lesson to your family by working out a scheme of color in your Christmas tree decorations? ARCHITECTURE. December. PANAMA-PACIFIC INTERNATIONAL EXPOSITION. Show a collection of views of the Exposition. Three years before the opening of the Panama-Pacific International Exposition the site of its fascination courts, entrancing gardens, its fine Italian towers and Moslem domes, was a marshy — sea-washed stretch the home of the sea-gull. Two continents had been severed to make way for shipping". Generations had been waiting for this cut, and it was meet that the world should be called to take notice of so stupendous an event by joining in the making of a world's Exposition in its honor. No spot more wonderful could have been chosen for a world's meeting place there to commemorate with architecture and sculpture, withr painting and with flowers, with oratory and song, and with all the handiwork of man, this marvelous accomplishment! So here was reared, by American artists, a city of enchantment. Looking upon it from the Bay, or from the nearby hills, it appears like a beautiful mosaic, rythmical in plan — but it was — never planned it is the result of a dream or vision Who has not! been entranced by its marvelous color scheme, its balance and originality of design. There are few men who deserve our admiration for their part in achieving this work of art. Let us write their names upon a tablet of honor. Mr. Willis Polk and Mr. Edward Bennett who saw the vision and laid the foundation. George Kelham, of San Francisco (architect), Manager in Chief. Karl Bitter, of New York, and Sterling Calder who thought the sculptures. Mr. Ryan, of San Francisco, and Mr. Guy Bailey, of Berkley, illuminators. John McLaren and Donald, his son, landscape gardeners. Porter Garnett, of Berkley, selected the inscriptions. Paul E. Denver, of New York, invented the materials for the buildings. 658 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Jules Guerin created the color scheme. The architect of the Court of Ages, Louis Christian Mullgardt. Architect of the Court of the Four Seasons, Henry Bacon, of New York. Architect of the Palace of Horticulture, Bakewell and Brown, of San Francisco. Architects of Palace of Fine Arts, Bernard R. Maybeck, of San Francisco. LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in October. THE HOME ECONOMICS MOVEMENT AND ITS MEANING. Foreshadowing. — In ages past, during the patriarchal period, men provided the food while women cooked it and kept the hearth fires burning. When warring tribes encroached, or fresh pastures were sought, locations were changed, and the women carried seeds of grains and fruits and planted them in the new environment. In those times her life was lived in the out-of-doors and she was the mother of the arts and crafts. In medieval ages she spun, wove and dyed, supervised the making of the household necessities, was famed for culinary art and needlework. Her place at the pinnacle of a cycle was assured, the lady bountiful, the head of home industries. Then the cycle of commercial industry swept the home and village manufacturers, into great buildings filled with machinery. The home from being an industrial center became a place of small daily tasks. But with the commercial cycle had begun an educational era, and women, in the world, bereft of other things turned to scholarship, and public life. Amongst us women have taken up their Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., and temple work. — The Awakening. Just when it seemed as though home and its keeping was to be an experiment, turning out well or ill according to the natural ability of the keeper, the leaders of this people organized women, and church schools, making extension divisions of the R. S. teachers' activities. Our leading men and women called attention to the heavy death rate, particularly among infants, to lack of general health, and told us that it was due to sins against sanitation, nutrition, and urged the people to study the Word of Wisdom and the laws of Moses. Their GUIDE LESSONS. 659 indefatigable labors brought to the minds of our people a realization of the need for special training in home making lines, and provided means for that training. The fruits.of their labors are seen today in the universal instruction that is given in home lines, in our Church and state schools. In the world there are special colleges, and nearly every higher institution provides courses in home economics, while high schools are all more or less equipped with laboratory facilities. Agricultural Colleges were endowed our own Utah A. C. being a pioneer in every phase of; this work, and it now occupies front rank in every department and function. — Extension Departments. But this progress was not made without educational work among the parents, and there were numbers of young women who would never have a chance for such an education. It was the need for arousing the sympathy and insuring the co-operation of the former and bringing, help to the latter, that brought the college extension movement into being. It is in fact what its name implies, an extension of the courses taught in school and college to the farm and home. — Steps in Development. At first the work was carried on by means of farmers' institutes at which College professors and local farmers talked to audiences made up mostly of men, the women's share being a demonstration in the preparation, service, and clearance of a bounteous lunch. After a time a woman speaker was added to the afternoon's program. Such women as could, attended, while the men graciously left the discussion of livestock and crops to listen to talks on food preparation, sanitation, and care of human offspring. Perhaps there are few things so suggetsive of what education on these lines has done as the fact that today a woman speaker holds as high a place as a man at an institute, and her subject is listened to and discussed with equal eagerness by both sides of the house. Short Courses, Conferences, Movable Schools. — Farmers' institutes were good in their way, but did not last long enough and were too circumscribed. Short courses of from three days to one week's duration, consisting of movable schools, for both men and women, and in which instruction is given either in the form of a class and laboratory at which the women actually do the v/ork, or by lectures and demonstrations, were instituted. Once a year a big conference is held at which speakers of note are heard. These forms of extension work, too, had, and still have, great value, giving chances to meet the women and discuss their problems not only in the lecture hall but also in their homes. Institutes and schools were supported by the state funds. Farm and Home Demonstration Work. Heretofore — "Uncle Sam" had been an interested spectator except for the 660 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. maintaining of Experiment Stations for agriculture in each state, and the publishing of bulletins for the use of both the farmer and his wife. It became apparent, however, to our government that the material from the college and experiment station given by those doing extension work, was reaching to a great extent only the ears of the audiences, and for the amount of time and money expended did not show sufficient results in active work on farms or in homes. And so the idea was evolved of employing men and women to live among the people and to help them by means of field and home demonstrations, to put into practice the better methods taught. Again, our own agricultural college was at the head of this progressive movement. A bill known as the SmithLever Bill was passed providing for the work and its maintenace. From henceforth extension work no longer is carried on by the state and college alone, but by the government of the United States, through the Department of Agriculture, in co-operation with the states of the Union through the extension divisions of the respective colleges of agriculture. — The States Relations Service. All great undertakings must be organized to be successful. A department at Washington, D. C, known as the States Relations Service was formed. This department takes charge of the farm and home demonstration work. — Women's Share. There has recently been appointed' a woman whose time is devoted to supervising the projects undertaken in the various states, while state leaders are being appointed to supervise the work of women county agents in the states. — Utah's Share. It is interesting to note that Utah was the first state in the Union to engage a woman to do home demonstration work in a county. We have at this time two women in two counties. They carry on their work by means of projects, the nature of which depends upon the needs of the community. Perhaps the ones most prominent are nutrition of infants, with the allied activities of clean milk campaigns, baby clinics, and general town clean-ups family diet including cookery, vegetable garden; contests, canning, household finance, and general home management. Our Relief Society has taken up this work and we urge our women to join, and take part in the movement. The President of the U. A. C. has promised us all the aid we desire both through special teachers and by arranging their Institute Classes to fit our needs. — — — Z. C M. I. School Shoes For Boys Are made for service they will keep the boys’ feet warm and dry. Z. C. M. I. ALLOVERS are the ideal The Food for play garment Your Family for boys and Artificial things always have girls. Cheap, their day. A fancy breakfast food serviceable. may be popular for a short time, but since health is priceless, nearly everyone turns, sooner or later, back to nature for pure, unchanged foods, like ROLLED OATS Travel-Morel Locally There it nothing artificial about these oats, just the biggest, mellowest, most delicious oats that can be produced in this mountain country, are rolled to a flakiness and a palatability that delights the whole family. You do not have to coax the boys to eat "SUNRIPE" Rolled Oats. SLIGHTLY MORE Contains the Strength of the of the Hills" Try Sunripe Koffe-et for a refreshing, healthful drink. "Better than ever." Utah Cereal Food Co. OGDEN, UTAH. EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Genealogical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Tempi* Street Salt Lake City, Utah "Utah't M»tt Fofular Music Houte" ON FREE TRIAL IN YOUR OWN HOME This fine COLUMBIA GRAFONOLA, brand-new, latest model, with 20 fine selections, delivered to your home on five d a y s' FREE TRIAL. No C. O. D. No Money Down. English and American MAIL COUPON TODAY ARCHITECTURE Daynes-Beebe Music Co., Salt Lake. Br GEO. M. ALLEN Please send me particulars of your FREE TRIAL OFFER mentioned in is in Mrs. Home's Art Book, the Relief Society Magazine. DEVOTEES AND THEIR SHRINES. Send to this office or Name. . to Mrs. Alice Merrill Home, 4 Address. Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1 9 1 6 are assigned. PRICE $1.26 POSTPAID Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing announces the opening of its thirteenth school year on Monday, September 18, 1916. School term, 8 months. — Course A Entrance fee for the course in Obstetrics, which — includes nursing and invalid cooking $50.00. — Course B Entrance fee for course in Nursing, which in— cludes invalid cooking $25.00. — Course C ^At intervals during the school year, lectures on Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases, Etc., will be given by eminent physicians, surgeons, and specialists. No charge. — Course D ^A class in Invalid Cooking will be conducted by experts; no extra charge for students taking other courses. Instructor, DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS. For further information write to General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman, Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters —and sons—to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls,prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The AgricuK^ral College of the State of Utah. Bead Neck Chains 75c to $300. Come in and look at them. If you live out of town write about them. We show them in Imitation Pearls, Real Pearl, Jet, Amber, Coral and Gold. Bead Chains are always appropriate, always in good taste. McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City CALIFORNIA The Winter Resort of America Avoid the rigors of Winter by visiting SUNNY CALIFORNIA San Francisco, Del Monte, Pacific Grove, Santa Cruz, Big Trees, Santa Barbara, and Los Angeles all invite you. i. S hALL POINTS REACHED VIA The Standard Line X of the We^ Personally Planned Itineraries — Beautifully Illustrated Literature furnished on request For Information Call On F. E. SCOTT District Passenger Agent, Phone Was. 6900 City Ticket Office, 203 Walker Bank Bldg. SOUTHERN PACIFIC DECEMBER, 1916. |Q&D SPECIAL ARTICLES RELIEF SOCIETY MINUTES Amy Brown Lyrnan. CHRISTMAS STORY Ruth Moench Bell. THE McCUNE HOME Illustrated. PREVIEW OF 1917 OUTLINES Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29, Bishop's Bldg.,Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c Vol. III. No. 12. W£^ J TWO BOOKS SUGAR Family Recerd of Temple Work for fhe Dead A simplified form, with complete I'HE FOOD FOR CHILDREN instructions for properly recoiling this work. L. D. S. Family and Individual Record In pointing out the value of Arranged specially for recording sugar as a food for children, in a most desirable and concise form, important events in the lives of the an American authority recently members of the church. These books are sold repeated the statement of an at $1.S5 each English expert, when he said: Peseret News Book Store "The prejudice against this 6 MAIN STREET most valuable food [sugar] for children is little better than a superstition." When WE Make Your PorThere's no whiter, no sweeter, traits, YOU get the Correct no purer sugar than "UtahStyle, Excellence and Idaho.Order it by the sack. Satisfaction Let the children have lots of — it it's good for them. Utah-Idaho Sugar The Thomas ABSOLUTELY PURE Studio UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. JOSEPH r. SMITH, Prksidknt Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. THOS. R. CUTLER, VicK-PRKS. and GkN'L Man. Established 1677 Phone Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY Have You Read The Women of The Bible, By Elder Willard Done If not, Why not? The book will help you in your Theology Lessons, it will give you a greater insight and love for the Bible characters, and will also make you glad that you are a woman and a sister to these good and glorious women who lived and loved and suffered even as we do today. Buy one for yourself, your mother, daughter or friend. PRICE, 75c; Deseret News Book Store The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS. DECEMBER, 1916. Similitude Lulu Greene Richards 661 General Conference of Relief Society. . Amy Brown Lyman 663 Reception at the McCune Home Susa Young Gates 676 Nearest and Dearest Ruth Moench Bell 689 How Betty Helped Elsie Chamberlain Carroll 695 Christmas Menus Gertrude McCheyne 708 Proper Guidance of Children Lucy W. Snow 702 Current Topics James H. Anderson 705 Christmas Menus 706 Genealogical Lesson Boos 709 Suggestive List,of Books for the Family Library 709 r^DiTORiAL: Peace on Earth 710 Preview of Guide Work for 1916-17 712 Guide Lessons 717 ADVERTISERS* DIRECTORY. Patronize those who advertise with us. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bid., Salt Lake City. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City. DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City. MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY— 60 East South Temple. OREGON SHORT LINE RAILWAY, Salt Lake City. STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J, Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City. THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City. TAYLOR. S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St, Salt Lake City. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City Utah. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, S«lt Lake City. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Loga-\ Utah. "WOMEN OF THE BIBLE," by Willard Done. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. — -r= % SAVE ARE WE OF ISRAEL? SOMETHING By GEO. REYNOLDS The same principle used in managing a ten-dollar salary, A NEW EDITION can be applied to the management of a million-dollar NOW READY corporation. The trouble Paper Binding 25c Postpaid with most of us is that we "save what is left," and orDeseret Sunday School Union Book Store dinarily there isn't much left. 44 East on South Temple To accomplish anything saving, we must be methodical. Salt Lake City, Utah Teach children to your save while they are young. The "Merchants" will be glad to serve you and your children. SALT LAKE'S "The Bank with a Personality." LADY FLORIST Merchant's Bank Mrs. Emma J. Sanders Capital $250,000. Member of 278 South Main Street Salt Lake Clearing House. John Pingree, " Prest. O. P. ; Schramm-Johnson No. 5 Soule V. P.; Moroni Heiner, V. P. Radcliffe Q. Cannon, L. J. Hays, Asst. Cashiers. Phone Wasatch 2815 Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City. Utah ^= J Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. RELIEF SOCIETY DEPARTMENT HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 the purpose THE UTAH STATE NATIONAL of this Bank at all times is to render S.M.TAYLOR & Co. BANK helpful service and Undertakers and Embalmers SALT LAKE CITY make the handling SUCCESSORS TO UTAH of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 Years in One Location UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK 251-257 E. First South Street Your Account is Cordially Invited Salt Lake City. Utah Efficient Service, Fair Methods, Complete Equipment JOSEPH F. SMITH. Pres. — SIMILITUDE. By Lulu Greene Richards. A lingering ray of winter sunshine steals, With noiseless step, where nothing else could tread. And with soft kiss its parting blessings seals Upon a tired baby's golden head. 'Tis Christmas Eve, and in the dim lit hall The child cries out and knocks at mother's door Until it opens, and the plaintive call Fond kisses answer and its smiles restore. It may not enter yet, and well placed screen Hides all its eager, wondering eyes would see. Peep as it will, there's nothing to be seen But shadowy suggestions of a tree. But it is soothed; in mother's restful arms Away to comfort and to sleep 'tis borne, Unconscious of the loving, lavish charms Which wait its wakening on Christmas morn. A world stood knocking at a close shut door. Longing and pleading that it soon might ope; A flood of light the weary hosts shone o'er. The sacred benison of faith and hope. Then souls grew penitent of sinful pride As charity's fair banner wide unfurled, The gracious door of heaven was opened wide, And arms of love and mercy clasped the world. — But ah! so well is placed the veil the screen That wistful mortal eyes upon it thrown Catch only faint, stray glimpses of the scene Which Jesus holds in waiting for His own. And as the mother lulls her child to sleep, So must the world its silent slumber take. Oblivious of the glorious mysteries deep To be revealed and hailed when it shall wake. 'Tis Christmas morning. Mother's open door Grants baby freedom to most rapturous sight; All gifts she'd wished for, and so many more! The screen removed, behold his wild delight. Not yet the world is called to wake and rise. But it will be, the veil will pass away. Fulness of joy awaits the sweet surprise On Christ's glad morn, the Resurrection Day. CO — THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. III. DECEMBER, 1916. No. 12. General Conference of the Relief Society. By Amy Brown Lyman, Secretary. The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held Wednesday and Thursday, October 4 and 5, 1916. Two general sessions were held on Wednesday, in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, and two meetings for officers were held Thursday in the Auditorium, fourth floor Bishop's building. A special meeting was held for secretaries and treasurers, during the noon recess on October 5, and on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, at 4:30 p. m., each day, genealogical meetings were held. On Wednesday evening a reception was given by the General Board to the authorities of the Church, and all official representatives of the Relief Society, at the home of Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune. On Wednesday and Thursday, noon luncheon was served cafeteria style — to the out-of-town representatives by the General Board. On Wednesday 530 women were served, and on Thursday 790. The attendance at the conference was unusually large. At the opening session in the Assembly Hall, 850 were in attendance, and in the afternoon of the same day the number was increased to 1,200. At the officers' meeting, Thursday morning, there were 650 present, and in the afternoon 790. Roll call at the officers' meeting showed the following official representation General: — Board members, 17; stakes represented, 62 39 by stake presidents, and 23 by other officers Missions represented 5; — 4 by Mission presidents and one by branch officer. The total number of stake and ward officers reported was 497. Nine stakes were not represented. The missions represented were California, by Mrs. : — ; 664 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Minnie J. Robinson Central States, by Mrs. Lottie T. Bennion; Eastern States, by Mrs. Walter P. Monson Northern States, by; Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth; Western States, by Mrs. John L. Herrick. The singing at all of the sessions was congregational, and was led by Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Relief Society chorister. The following special musical numbers were given violin solo: Prof. Willard Weihe, accompanied by Prof. J. J. McClellan on the organ baritone solo, by Prof. A. C. Lund organ solo, by Tracy; ; Y. Cannon. President Emmeline B. Wells presided at the meetings of the conference. At the opening session, she welcomed all in attendance, and expressed her great pleasure in meeting again the officers and members of the Society in conference. She felt thankful that peace has been preserved in our beloved country which she characterized as the land of promise. She admonished the Relief Society members to live up to the ideals for which the organization stands, and to reverence the Church, and the authority of the priesthood. She spoke of the great responsibility resting on parents in the rearing of children, and of the importance of educating them in the faith of their fathers. Mrs. Mary M. Halls, President of Young Stake Relief Society responded to the address of welcome. She stated that the work of the Relief Society organization is next in importance to that of the Priesthood, and that the organization was the foundation of all the auxiliary work in the Church. The Society was organized for the salvation of mankind, and the relief of distress — the two highest purposes possible. Mrs. Halls emphasized the importance of the education and development of women along all lines, and she declared that upon the enlightenment of women depends the character of men. Two of the most interesting features of the session were reports given by Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth, and Mrs. Lottie T. Bennion, presidents of the Relief Societies of the Northern and Central States Missions. Mrs. Ellsworth reported a membership of 350, and an average attendance of 20, in the 20 branches of her mission, which are located in the following states: Iowa, Minnesota. Michigan, Wisconsin, Indiana and Manitoba. Prior to the organization of a new Relief Society, Mrs. Ellsworth forms a mothers' class for the instruction of the new members of the Church. Here they are taught, among other things, how to conduct meetings, and each one is given an opportunity to act as presiding officer. All the Relief Society members in this mission act as missionaries, and during the past year, they have distributed 3,611 books, magazines and tracts, and have reported 3,073 gospel conversations. ; CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 665 Mrs. Ellsworth spoke of the great interest in genealogy and temple work, stating that during the past year $172.50 had been sent to the St. George Temple for work, and that $56 had been donated to the temple; 1,954 names were sent for baptism and 392 endowments had been performed. Mrs. Lottie T. Bennion reported the organizations of twelve Relief Societies in the Central States, located in Missouri, Arkansas, Louisiana, Texas, and Oklahoma. The membership in these branches is 280 with an average attendance of 83%. Some of the societies are located one thousand miles from mission headquarters, but all of them are visited and are under the direct supervision of the president. In this mission the outline work has been followed in the main, but other features have been introduced, that seemed to be especially needed; for example, in a Texas branch, she made a specialty of teaching breadmaking, and in a very short time light, wholesome bread replaced the hot breads that had been served exclusively before. The women in this mission are very devoted to Relief Society work, many of them walking five, six, and seven miles to attend meetings. Many of them work in factories or in the cotton fields. An effort is being made, in this mission, to raise funds for temple work. In one branch a loom has been bought, and the members are weaving carpets and rugs for sale; in the south, many of the members are picking cotton to raise money for this purpose, and one poor woman sends $10 a month for her temple work. The sick have been well taken care of in this Mission. During the last year 1,500 visits have been made to the sick, 150 of these being made by the President herself. In closing, Mrs. Bennion spoke of the excellent work done by the lady missionaries, but she made a plea that the mothers of the organization would use their influence to see that the young women who go on missions, are better trained in Church ordinances before entering the mission field, and that they have instructions on how to preserve the sacredness of the garment and to dress neatly and modestly. Stake reports were given as follows Wayne stake, by Mrs. : Bathsheba Grundy San Juan stake, by Mrs. Mary N. Jones; Rigby stake, Mrs. Emmeline Shurtliff. These stakes were reported to be in good condition with energetic officers, and active members, all devoted to the Relief Society cause. Several typical examples of relief work were cited. Mrs. Jones spoke of the aid given by her workers to refugees from Mexico, and Mrs. Grundy told of how a home was obtained and furnished for an emigrant family, and how another was prepared for a family who lost their home by fire. Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth praised the work of the Relief Society —eulogizing all workers from the President E. B. — 666 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Wells — to the least members of the Society. She commented on the splendid reports given, and expressed appreciation for women who are able to set self aside and work for a great cause. At the Wednesday afternoon session, addresses were made by Mrs. Reed Smoot, Mrs. Ida B. Smith, Mrs. Alice M. Home, Counselors Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith, and by President Emmeline B. Wells. Mrs. Smoot spoke on home life, emphasizing the far-reaching effects of healthy, happy homes. Homes and not houses are the centers of the universe. Mrs. Smoot commented on the efficacy of prayer, and its influence in home life, relating in this connection some of her personal experiences. Mrs. Ida B. Smith was the next speaker. Mrs. Smith has just recently returned from Europe where her husband — Elder — Hyrum M. Smith presided over the European, Mission, and where she acted as President of the Relief Societies. Mrs. Smith gave a report of the regular work of the 'Relief Society in these far away countries, and also an interesting account of the special work done by the societies in Great Britain, and other European countries, in connection with other organizations, for the alleviation of suffering and distress in this war-ridden country. In December of last year, each Society in the Mission was given $15.00 with which to purchase material and begin work, and during the months that followed, hundreds of comfortable articles were turned over for distribution to those in need 3,634; articles of clothing were made (consisting of night gowns, dresses bed linen, etc.), and 2,427 articles were knitted. Many thousands of books, pamphlets and tracts were also distributed in the hospitals, and among the wounded elsewhere. Mrs. Smith told of her visit to the largest military hospital in England, where she personally distributed hundreds of tracts. She also gave an account of a whole program given by one of the branches at an entertainment for the benefit of the wounded soldiers. The special relief work taken up by the British societies was undertaken with a two-fold purpose, to aid the needy and distressed, and to spread the principles of the gospel, and the results have been gratifying from every point of view. The following statistical report was given: number of societies in Europe, 101; membership, 2,146; officers and teachers, 652; families assisted during the year, 1.025; visits made to sick, 8,919; paid for charitable purposes, $3,210.80. Mrs. Alice Merrill Home gave a report of the work done by the General Board in connection with the City Board of Health at the various milk stations about the city during the months of July and August. Mrs. Home stated that five milk stations had been in operation during the summer, with a trained nurse furnished by the city, in charge of each station. At four CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 667 of the stations, Relief Society workers were furnished by the General Board to assist with the work-these helpers giving part of their services free— 55 days' work in all were donated. The funds for the work were contributed as follows: General Board, $150; Presiding Bishop's Office, $150; Elizabeth Cutler Jenkins, $50. — The milk was furnished by the City 1,036 quarts were sold; 1,486 quarts were given away, and 11.000 lbs. of ice donated by the Telegram were given away. The great object of the work is the saving of babies, and it is felt that many lives were saved, and much suffering alleviated during this time. Many sick babies were brought to the station where they received the attention of a competent physician, and were followed to their homes by the nurses and helpers who gave instructions to the mothers on the care of children. Parents' classes were held in connection with this work, and 1,700 pamphlets on health and sanitation were distributed. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams expressed her great joy in listening to the reports that had been given during the conference. She was especially pleased with reports from the mission fields, and felt to urge all mothers present to give full support to any measure that would better prepare our young people to be efficient, worthy, and exemplary workers, both at home and abroad. She felt that greater efforts might be put forth to educate them in the principles of the gospel. Mrs. Williams mentioned the great need of reform in dress and social life among the young people in the Church, and stated that a request had been made by the First Presidency that the women of the Relief Society, the Y. L. M. I. A., and the Primary Association should take up the matter of reform in dress and amusements, and that committees would be appointed from each organization, and the matter considered at once. Mrs. Williams scored the extremes in style of dress and the excessive use of cosmetics, and stated that while a great deal can be accomplished toward putting down these errors through the auxiliary organizations, the mothers themselves should take a firm stand in the matter, and use all their influence toward bringing about moderation and reform. The speaker closed with the prayer that the women would be loyal to the First Presidency of the Church in all things, and be ready and willing to take up all the work they suggested. Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke along the same lines. She felt that though the work of the Society is largely relief work, there are many other important things for us to do, and at the present time, one of our greatest duties is to look after the young people. Mrs. Smith spoke against card-playing, immodest dancing, and the dress in vogue at the present time, stating that all these things tend toward evil. Many mothers follow these extremes themselves, and should reform themselves before under: 668 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. taking to reform the young people. Mrs. Smith urged that we all set ourselves right in these matters, and then exert ourselves to help others to carry out the instructions of the First Presidency of the Church. President Emmeline B. Wells gave the closing remarks bearing her testimony, and urging the necessity of the storing of wheat, repeating the words of prophecy that the "Saints should go to the mountains and the world should come to them to be fed." She alluded to present war conditions, and asked the women to be especially diligent in performing this important duty of the organization. officers' meetings. — Two officers' meetings were held on Thursday the morning session was devoted to a teachers' convention, and the afternoon session was taken up with a preview of the lesson work for 1917, which will be found in our Guide Department, and with reports on the various activities of the Society. teachers' convention. The program for the teachers' convention was as follows — History of Relief Society teachers' work Counselor Clarissa S. Williams. — Duties of Teachers Counselor Julina L. Smith. Activities: (a) — Emergency cabinets Mrs. Amelia W. Cutler, (b) Special missionary visits, Miss Sarah McLelland, (c) Employment Bureau, Miss Sarah Eddington. (d) The future of the work, Mrs. Susa Young Gates. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams gave a brief history of the teachers' work, beginning with the foundation of the organization, in 1842. She stated that the first mission of the Society was to care for the poor and needy, the sick, and the afflicted, and to comfort those who mourn. The Prophet stated in the first meeting of the Society that "if any officers are wanted to carry out the design of the institution, let them be appointed and set apart, as deacons, teachers, etc., are among us." In the beginning of the organization, the early workers were all enthusiastic over the opportunity the Society gave them to carry out their desires to do good, and it was a common occurrence for the women to make personal sacrifices in order to do this. It was not uncommon for a woman to arise in meeting, and say, 'I give all my jewels for the sick;" and for another to say, "I give all my jewels for clothing for those who are in need." The desire to be of service and to help others seemed to be the strongest thought connected with the early work, and the society was only one month old when the officers realized that to accomplish the best results the work must be organized and systematized. The people were willing to work: CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 669 and to give of their means, but just how to carry on the work was the question that must be solved. At a meeting held, April 14, 1842, reports were given on promiscuous individual work that had been done, and the President, Emma Smith, said, "We must provide a way to do our work systematically and intelligently." There were four wards in Nauvoo at this time, and as there was only one corps of officers, meetings were held consecutively in the wards, one meeting each week, in order that all the officers — might attend them this made four meetings each month one — for each ward. On July 24. 1843. Elizabeth Ann Whitney suggested that a necessity committee be "appointed to seek out the suffering, and to procure means for the rich to alleviate them. There is no doubt but that this question had been discussed a great deal informally among the women, and Mrs. Whitney had thought out this plan. Acting on her suggestions a committee of women was appointed, four from each ward. These sixteen women were instructed to discover the needs of the poor, and to get aid from the rich. They were told to go about this work in a spirit of love and humility, and that the Spirit of God would help them and would stimulate the hearts of the rich. The appointment of these sixteen women was the beginning of the teachers' work in the Relief Society, and in the seventy-three years that have followed, the number of teachers has grown from sixteen to 12.386. To show that the women realized the delicacy of the mission of the teacher, Mrs. Williams related that Mrs. Orson Spencer, of the Nauvoo Fourth Ward, asked to be relieved from this appointment, as she feared the bishops would resent this work as interference. President Joseph Smith in hearing of this, sent word to the society that the bishops would appreciate the aid given by the sisters, and would not be offended. He also stated that the Lord would provide ways and means for the Relief Society to accomplish its noble work. Mrs. Spencer thereupon withdrew her objection to serving on the committee. Mrs. Williams traced the importance of the teachers' work from these early days up to the present time, stating that it had been continued along the pattern suggested by Mrs. Whitney. In reviewing the history of the work, she had been unable to learn when the name of "teacher" was first given to this corps of workers. , Duties of Relief Society teachers was the subject discussed by Julina L. Smith. Mrs. Smith outlined; the duties of ward teachers as follows To visit the homes of members monthly. To ascertain cases of want. To alleviate distress. To collect money and material for charitable purposes. 670 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. To distribute funds and supplies, under the direction of the ward presidency. There need be no ward teachers' committee as the ward presidency presides over the teachers' quorum, and has direct charge of all work done. Cases of great want or sickness should be reported at once by the block teachers to the ward presidency, who will attend to such calls, and arrange to supply needed help. Teachers should get and keep the spirit of the gospel. The living testimony is a force, a power, an active impulse towards good, within the human soul. Action is life, inaction is death. Living water is in motion, stagnant water breeds disease and' death. Teachers need this active force to enable them to accomplish their arduous tasks, and to prevent them from becoming weary in well-doing. They should not perform their labors in a formal, listless way. As they feel in entering a home, so will the hostess feel after their visit. Teachers should not feel that they are beggars when they enter the homes in search of aid for others, but that they are helpers, and they should be respected in their positions. Mrs. Smith emphasized the point that teachers receive no financial benefit whatever from their work, and they do many things for those in sorrow and need which are known only to heaven. The following list of topics arranged by the General Board for teachers was read by Mrs. Smith as suggestive for discussion in the homes of the people: TOPICS FOR TEACHERS. 1. Women of the Bible. 2. Reading the Scriptures. 3. The Book of Mormon. 4. A Testimony of the Truth. 5. Temple Work. 6. Bridal Clothing in the Temple. 7. Preparation in Cleanliness Before Entering the Temple. 8. How to Simplify Housework. 9. Less Work on Sunday. More Rest for Mother. 10. Evils of Birth Control or Race Suicide. 11. Modesty in Dress. 12. The Word of Wisdom. 13. Card-playing. 14. Church Schools. 15. Prayer. 16. Teaching Children the Principles of the Gospel. 17. Fulfilment of Prophecy. 18. The Relief Society. 19. Auxiliary Organizations. CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 671 20. Love at Home. 21. Reverence for the Priesthood. 22. Summer Pleasures. 23. Wastefulness. 24. Family Insurance. These topics should be handled tactfully. Teachers should not argue on political or religious matters and should not seek to regulate the families. Mrs. Smith referred to the evils of card-playing and closed by urging the teachers to maintain a high standard in regard to Church teachings, and to be exemplars in all things. Mrs. Amelia W. Cutler, first Counselor in Pioneer stake spoke on Emergency Cabinets. Mrs. Cutler stated that the Pioneer stake maintains an emergency cabinet, which contains medical supplies, including olive oil, simple remedies, soap, towels, sterilized clothes, and basins, besides clothing and bedding and; that the committee is always able to give immediate relief. The cabinet itself is arranged with drawers and shelves and receptacles to conveniently hold all these articles, and is closed in with two large doors which are kept closed and locked. This insures safety and cleanliness for the articles. The clothing is made to fit people of all ages, and a great deal of pains is taken by the committee to keep it neat this is particularly true with regard to the articles; for babies. Whenever it is necessary to replenish the cabinet, the wards are called upon to assist. Regular sewing days are planned, and the sisters meet in large numbers to do the sewing. Sometimes showers are given for the cabinet, and many articles are secured in this way. Miss Sarah McLelland told of special missionary visits carried on in many of the stakes, work being done in the interest of the aged, foreigners just arriving in stakes, and preventative work for wayward girls. In some stakes, mothers' and daughters' meetings are held, when such subjects as "the sacredness of marriage, parenthood, and obedience" are discussed. The speaker declared that on womankind is placed the responsibility of the moral life of the community, and that one of the Society's main objects should be the saving of souls. Miss Sarah Eddington gave an interesting report of the employment bureau maintained in the Presiding Bishop's Office under the direction of the Bishopric. It is the object of this bureau to locate reliable people in reliable positions, and the work is all done free of charge. The speaker recommended the establishing of such bureaus in the various stakes, and also made the plea that work be found in home towns for the young people, rather than sending them to the city for employment. Comparisons were made between the wages of the ordinary girl 672 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. working in department stores, and the cost of living, and it was seen that very little can be saved by girls in such employment. The speaker emphasized the fact that house-keeping is a better class of work, and pays better wages, and would, she believed, be more sought for by working girls, if the hours were better regulated by house-keepers. Following we give a letter sent by the P. B. O. to ward bishops, and also a report of the employment furnished in one month: Dear Brother: The success that has attended our efforts in securing work for worthy people has been so encouraging that we have concluded to extend our efforts to our brethren and sisters returning from the Mission field and to those immigrating to Zion. We desire that our brethren and sisters from abroad should begin their new homes under conditions that will be favorable to their temporal and spiritual development. Their are many Latter-day Saints residing in our large cities who would be better off if they were located in our country districts. We have thought of your locality as a suitable place for such people to settle. Will you therefore advise us of the situation in your ward? Can you assist one or more families to get started in life who might come to you with nothing but a willingness to work and a determination to succeed if given the opportunity? If so, please give us specific information on the printed form enclosed. If there is no such opening, what are the local opportunities for a family with limited means? The spirit prompting the ideas outlined above is the same that has been the means of developing this intermountain country. It is the duty of every member to help his brethren. In the earliest days when a new comer arrived in the settlements, it was customary to help him in a substantial manner. Some would give chickens, others a pig, more prosperous brethren would render more substantial aid, and frequently the members of the ward would assist the new comer to plow his first few acres of land and take a general interest in his welfare until he got started in life. He, in turn, would assist others who followed after him. Many of our people owe their present success and prosperity to the assistance rendered in this manner when they arrived here. We hope that you will take this matter up with the Priesthood of your ward, so that we can have the hearty co-operation of all the members of the ward. We feel confident that you will approve of this movement and will give us all the aid you can. Awaiting your reply, we are, Your brethren in the gospel, The Presiding Bishopric. : : CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 673 PRESIDING BISHOP'S OFFICE EMPLOYMENT DEPARTMENT REPORT FOR THE MONTH OF APRIL, 1916. Employment was furnished as follows Out of 178 applications 167 received employment: Blacksmiths 2 Dressmakers 2 Bookbinders 1 Farm Hands 8 Bookkeepers 4 Gardeners 5 Carpenters 4 Janitors 2 Clerks • 5 Laborers 30 Cement Workers 3 Messengers 2 Civil Engineers 1 Nurse Girls 4 Chambermaids 5 Orderlies 6 Chauffeurs 6 Painters 5 Cleaners 11 Pressfeeders. , 3 Cooks 5 Stenographers 6 Dairying 6 Stone Cutters 1 Domestics 28 Telephone Operators.... 3 " Demonstrators 7 Doormen 2 Total 167 Mrs. Susa Young Gates spoke on the future of the teachers' work. She said that the first extension work done in the world was done by the Relief Society teachers of the "Mormon" Church. Mrs. Gates then gave the following instructions regulating teachers' activities A Teachers' Committee should be appointed in every stake board, but no ward teachers' committee is needed, the Presidency being in direct charge of the teachers' activities. The stake committee may assist the stake presidency to arrange the work of the ward Relief Society block teachers. Alternate teachers may be appointed in the wards to substitute for regular teachers, when necessary, also to assist in visiting districts widely separated. The President may arrange for the teachers to prepare themselves with the regular theology topic, or with any one of the subjects in this circular, so that a little profitable conversation may be entered into in the homes where they visit. But doctrinal discussions should be avoided. A teacher may comfort, encourage, and bless the sisters, but should never seek to regulate the family. Surplus funds or supplies in one ward may be used by the stake presidency to supply the deficiencies in another ward, provided such exchange is agreeable to all concerned. Stake presidents in large cities may arrange for emergency cabinets, which contain medical and hygienic equipment for cases; 674 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. of sudden need. These cabinets should be under the charge of the Relief Society Presidency, assisted by the stake teachers' committee; or, if established in the wards, by the President and block teachers. An employment bureau has been opened in the Presiding Bishop's Office, under the charge of Elder Frank Penrose. Women who want domestic, stenographic, or other positions, and those who desire to secure help, may apply to Elder Penrose who serves all courteously and without charge. He is in constant communication with the ward bishopric, and if Relief Society presidents know of girls or women coming to Salt Lake City for employment, they could bring a letter from the Society President to the Bishop's Office, which keeps a registered account of all persons who are recommended, until they have secured positions. Stake teachers' committees may co-operate with the bishops in forming local employment bureaus. Special missionary work is sometimes undertaken, and should rightly belong to the teachers' department. Visits to new converts, to fresh arrivals in the ward and to those not of our faith, or to those who have become lukewarm in their feelings, might be undertaken by teachers especially chosen by the ward, presidency, as the duties of the regular teachers are sufficiently taxing without adding to their labors. There must be no duplication of office and work in our organizations. All work done for charity, whether in collections or distribution, must be under the charge of the regular ward officers assisted by the block teachers. Teachers" conventions may be held annually. Mrs. Gates urged that the teachers, above all people, should use discretion and tact, that they should never seek to regulate or dictate to the families they visit and should never repeat or indulge in gossip. AFTERNOON SESSION. The outline work for 1917 was the first consideration at the afternoon session. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams announced the subject for next year as follows: Theology and Genealogy, Home Economics, Literature the only change from last year being the; substitution of literature for art. Current Events will be continued during the coming year, ten minutes of each session being given, to these subjects. The outlines for the whole year were read and discussed as follows Theology, Edna May Davis: Genealogy, Susa Young Gates Home Economics, Amy B. Ly; CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 675 man; Literature, Elizabeth S. Wilcox (see Guide Department in this number for full outlines). Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings reported the opening of the Nurse Class, September 18, with an enrollment of 22 students. Half of these students will take the course in obstetrics in connection with the nurse class, and all will take the course in invalid cooking. Mrs. Jennings predicted a very successful year for the school. Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune spoke on the Temple Penny Subscription Fund, explaining that the fund was started to assist with the erection of the Canadian and Hawaiian temples. She stated that donation to this fund is entirely voluntary, but is a choice privilege. Emma A. Empey made a brief report of her recent visit to the East, where she was accompanied by Mrs. Lyman and Mrs. Hyde, and the Misses Emily and Edith Smith. Mrs. Empey referred to the great pleasure she experienced in visiting the missions, and the places connected with the early history of the Church. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams made a brief report of the Magazine, stating that the rise in the cost of paper would greatly increase the expense of the publication. She reported that the printing of the Magazine alone would be $106.40 per month over what it was last year; that for extra numbers the increase in price per thousand would be $37.25 over last year also that the; dealers would sign a contract for four months only for fear of another raise in price. Mrs. Williams said it had been suggested that in order to reduce expense, agents be discontinued, and that the officers take care of the subscriptions. A discussion followed from the body of the house. It was finally moved by Susa Young Gates, seconded by Julina L. Smith, and carried, that the agents receive their regular per cent until further notice. President Emmeline B. Wells made the closing remarks. She expressed her thanks in being permitted to live to attend the officers' meetings of the Relief Society, and to hear the reports, all of which showed the Society to be growing and progressing. She felt especially thankful for the great work being done for. the salvation of the dead — a work she had been vitally interested in since the days of Nauvoo. Mrs. Wells bore her testimony, and asked God's blessings on the Relief Societies throughout the world. Thus ended one of the best and most profitable conferences ever held by our great and still growing Society. Reception at the McCune Home. By Susa Young Gates. recepThe General Board of the Relief Society tendered a their visiting delegates and tion on the evening of October 4, to the home of Mr. and Mrs. A. W. McCune, 200 North friends at Main street. The guests of honor were the members of the first Patriarchy, Presidency the Quorum of the Twelve, the Presiding committee on and the Presiding Bishopric, with their wives. The STATUES IN DRAWING ROOM. reception were:Elizabeth C. McCune, Emma A. Empey, Susa Hyde. Young Gates, Amy B. Lyman, Janette A. The committe who were in charge of the home to receive the various rooms were: Mrs. ?nd explain the works of art in Young Gates, Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Amy Brown Su<:a Mr. and Mrs. R. K. Lyman and Miss Sarah Eddington. the receiving the guests and tickLyman had charge of hall, with name and place of residence. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman was assisted by Professor Howard K Driggs Elder and Miss Beth BradTacob F. Gates, Mrs. Amelia W. Cutler, The reception-room was in charge of Mrs Elizabeth C Crismon; the drawing-room, Mrs. Janette A. Hyde and 678 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. VESTIBULE. Mrs. Emily S. Richards the sitting-room, Mrs. Elizabeth C: Wilcox; and daughter, Mrs. Mona Wilcox Cannon; the dining-room, Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie and Mrs. Josephine Beatie Burton; the relic-room, Professor Levi Edgar Young, Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry and Mrs. Lottie P. Baxter the guest chambers, Mrs. Elise; B. Alder; Mrs. McCune's room by Mrs. Amanda C. Bagley, Mr. McCune's room, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth. The hostess had charge of the booths which had entered the vestibule they passed into the reception room, then into the drawing room to shake hands with the Presidency, the Presiding Patriarch, and President Emmeline B. Wells with her Counselors Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams and Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Mrs. Rebecca C. Nibley, Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon, Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings, and other members of the General Board who were in the receiving line to shake hands with the guests. The hostess herself had charge of the booths which had been prepared in the ball-room on the upper floor, she herself dressed as an old Spanish "chola" woman, looking her part to perfection, and speaking the Spanish language fluently. She was indeed the center of attraction the whole evening and created a gale of merriment for the crowds that surrounded her booth. Many of her loving friends decided that she had missed her vocation. She should have been an actress, as indeed she was, in the RECEPTION AT THE M'CUNE HOME. 679 pioneer days. Her ready wit and good-natured sallies created no end of fun during the whole evening. Miss Sarah McLelland was in charge of the refreshments which were served in the various booths in the ball-room. There was the Hawaiian booth in charge of the Misses Emily and Edith Smith, assisted by Mr. Wesley E. Smith, and Mr. Gordon Hyde. The United States booth was in charge of Mrs. Alice Merrill Home, her beautiful daughter Mary dressed as the goddess of Liberty, and Mr. B. S. Young who was a circus as Uncle Sam, while his daughter Dorothy was a dream of beauty as Pocoh.ontas, an Indian maiden. In the Spanish booth Mrs. McCune as a "chola-woman" was assisted by her daughters, Mrs. Fay McCune Naylor, as a Spanish maiden, with Misses Betty and Beth McCune as Spanish girls they were pictures of beauty. ; The Japanese booth in the tower window was in charge of Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas with her son Mr. Elbert Thomas, and his wife and two children who were screams in genuine Japanese costumes. Great crowds stood for hours in front of this booth, enjoying these little Japanese babies in their quaint dress and their quainter ways. The crowds moved about freely from room to room and from floor to floor, enjoying one of the rarest and most delightful evenings ever spent by our great Relief Society. It was an education in itself to visit the marvelously beautiful MAIN HALL. : 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. home of Mrs. A. W. McCune. Added to that treat in itself, was the shaking hands with the leaders of the Church and of the Relief Society, the mingling together in social converse and the hilarious visit to the various booths, in the ball-room, which supplied all with amusement, charm and substantial refreshments. One more perfect entertainment was added to the list of excellent offerings, participated in by our Society. Agreat many people have asked for some descriptive picture of this wonderful home opened occasionally yet unostentatiously to friends. We solicited the help of the architect, Mr. C. S. Dallas ONE OF THE GUEST CHAMBERS. and he has furnished us with a number of items and details descriptive of this place. He says "The home of Mr. and Mrs. A. W. McCune is not a bungalow in the sense of the term used today. It derived its name from a desire to compliment Mr. McCune, as a bungalow was his birthplace, he being a native of India, and the bungalow being the typical home of that country. In order to intelligently describe the house it will be necessary to say a few words about it owners. Both Mr. and Mrs. McCune are persons of innate refinement, highly developed artistic tastes, definite ideas and strong personal preferences. In discussing the plans for the RECEPTION AT THE McCUNE HOME. 681 BALL ROOM. was told that simplicity must be the keynote of the whole lioiise, I design comfort and convenience must not be sacrificed, while; vast display, extravagant pretentions, stately or gorgeous effects were not to be tolerated. They wanted a home that they could live in and enjoy. The fire places must be deep and cozy as the center of life in the winter season the verandas broad and capa; cious so that the family could enjoy out door life in the summer season. 'We want our home,' said they, 'to be in harmony with ourselves and our method of living.' "With these considerations the place was considered as a whole: the approaches, the driveway, terraces, lawn, flower garden and shrubbery, are closely related parts of the whole scheme. "The house is entered through a heavy pair of bronze gates. On the left of the entrance vestibule is the reception room pass; ing through the vestibule, the main stair hall is entered from which opens the sitting room, dining room, library and drawing rooms. Back of the main hall is the rear hall stairway leading from basement to attic and back of this is the family breakfast room, kitchen, butler's pantry, servants' sitting room and back porch. "The exterior finish is dark red brick with brown stone trimmings and a dark brown tile roof of Holland tiles. The house is located on a corner of the hillside, (two houses being torn down 682 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. to secure space and depth), which overlooks the whole city and gives a view from the windows which impresses one with panoramic grandeur. Entering from the side door one is ushered into the sitting room which has large casement windows extending to the floor, comfortably furnished for the family daily life. "The main hall is finished in English oak. The wainscotting here is probably the finest piece of work of the kind in the United States. The great fireplace is built of Nubian marble, of a rich, reddish brown, with beautiful markings it extends from ceiling; to floor and a person can stand under the shelf. It is a very interesting piece of work, there being few more beautiful fireplaces in existence. The carvings here, and indeed all over the house, are hand finished. The beautiful hall table with its exquisite covering; the heavy tiled Persian rug and furnishings of this hall, and the one above it, are beautiful and artistic in the extreme. There is an old English clock with the calendar months upon its face which peals out the hours and half hours with a cathedral chime and tune. "The vestibule itself is finished in old English oak with beamed ceilings. The decoration, finishings and furniture are works of art. Half way up the stairway is a balcony overhanging the stairs which recalls the picture of Romeo and Juliet. This balcony is a part of a small music alcove the ceiling over the; MRS. AI CUNES CHAMBER. RECEPTION AT THE MCCUNE HOME. 683 main stairs is composed of deep oak panelling filled with beautiful art glass which is artifically lighted for night use. Under this balcony is another alcove with seats and rug. "The dining-room is English Renaissance in design, the woodwork being of old mahogany and the ceiling hand painted. It is interesting to know that this particular piece of exquisite still life painting took the artist three months to complete. Indeed, an DINING ROOM. artist spent two years painting the ceilings and panels of this house. The walls above the wainscotting in the dining-room are hung with hand embroidered wool tapestry so fine in texture, so lovely in design that one fancies it is painting. The floor of the dining-room is covered with a large rug in shades of red and brown, with color and design to harmonize with the rest of the room. The prototype of this room is the famous old English banqueting room of Haddon Hall. It is by far the richest room in art treasures in the house, (if we except the statuary in the drawing-room), and together with its furnishings would make a complete subject for a magazine article. The breakfast-room which opens into the dining-room connects each to the other with broad sliding doors. It is a small room, octagonal in shape, located between the dining-room and the butler's pantry with a small conservatory on the east. The fireplace in this room is of Irish marble in one corner with cab684 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. inets for silver, china and glass in the other corners. It is finished in mahogany, the same as the dining-room. The furniture and finish in Chippendale. It is such a room as Wm. Morris might well have designed. On a winter's morning the glow of the fire and the sun's checkered light across the floor reminds one that spring is not forever gone. The little unconventional conservatory is filled with flowers, gold-fish and birds. "The drawing-room belongs to no school of design, yet with its style and furnishings suggests the French palaces of Louis XIV. Although avoiding stately and gorgeous effects the room is a marvel of beauty. The long windows, draped with priceless hangings; the exquisite furniture of hand embroidered tapestry, made in France; the little tables, the cabinets filled with rare and curious costly objects; the rose satin brocaded walls with exquisite panels of Watteau paintings set over the doorways; the white satin-grained mahogany, the rarest wood on earth and found only in South America, and which composes the wood work the broad; mirror which covers half the wall space on one side and which was imported from Germany in cars specially built for it; the chandeliers of harmonious design and cut glass fittings —these form the background for the fitting works of art which claim the eye of the beholder. The lifesize statue of Cleopatra is said to be one of the finest portrayals of the ancient Queen in existence. The little statue of the baby with its upstretched arms and impatient fingers and wiggling toes is a darling crystallized in STATUE OF BABY marble, while the other lifeIN DRAWING ROOM. size statue of Nydia, the blind girl, has also a story. Back of the drawing-room is the Library. "The small reception-room which opens from the drawingroom is octagonal in plan and finished in San Domingo mahogany. The walls are hung with green moire silk. The ceiling is composed of eight panels each having four figures in relief representing the seasons, done by a great artist, in the center of which is a beautiful electric fixture set in a hemispherical dome. RECEPTION AT THE MCCUNE HOME. 685 RECEPTION ROOM. Above the large window seat is one of the most beautiful and costly art glass windows in the west. In one corner is the fireplace and on the mantel and in the cabinets are rare treasures from South American palaces and churches. The design of wreath and bow-knot carved in the finishings and furnishings of this room extends from floor to ceiling and from window to cushion on the couch. This room is a modified empire in design and is the gem of the whole house. "On the second floor is the central hall sitting-room with a wondrously carved Flemish screen dividing it from the main stairway. Leading from this hall is the curio room which is a prototype of an old English hall with open timbered roof and large open fireplace, forming an ingle nook. The finishing and furniture is old oak the walls are covered with painting of a; smoky tan color. More favorable comments from artists have been made on this room than any other. Here is found the wondrous and curious collection made by this remarkable host and hostess who have traveled the world over. The boa constrictor's skin and mammoth grizzly bear skin rug, the largest one known anywhere, ancient Madonna pictures, huacas from South American ruins, shells from the oceans, jewels from the Orient — all these and many more crowd this treasure trove. The most unique thing in the collection is a pair of heavy ebony-wood stirrups, 686 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. embellished with tarnished-hammered silver which belonged to Pizarro or one of his band, and came from ancient Peruvian collections. "The chambers are dreams of beauty. The principal one belonging to Mrs. McCune is furnished in a white enamel and is pink brocade and white lace in its finishings and furnishings. "Mr. McCune's room is oval in plan and was designed as much for a den as for a chamber of rest. It has a large fireplace of Utah onyx while the finish of the room is of specially selected CURIO ROOM. red mahogany. The three concave doors of this room are cut from one log and there is a story to them also. Each door is one solid piece with hand carved panels. The walls are hung in golden green Russian leather, set with old brass nails. The ceiling is beamed with a large mahogany cornice running around the entire room. "There are six other private and guest rooms on this floor and it would be difficult to decide which is of the greater merit. The two guest rooms with their private bath are exquisite in design and finish. "The bath room which connects the two chambers on one side have the floor, walls and ceiling of pure white Carrara marble from which marble, of course, the Italian sculptors moulded their RECEPTION AT THE MCCUNE HOME. 687 statuary. The texture between this and ordinary marble is as the difference between calico and velvet. The large mirror fills one side of the bath room and reflects the fireplace opposite. It contains a recess needle bath, arranged for a spray, vapor and shower bath. The broad band around the mirror is of glass mosaics. "Going up to the ball-room one enters at once into the vision of fairyland. There are four great alcoves, while the mirrored walls on every side reflect vistas innumerable. The artificial marble called scagliola, which forms most of the furnishings of this ball-room required the importation of a German from his fatherland, and he was eight months in making this, at that time, practically unknown composition. "Leading from the ball-room is the banquet-room. This is a modified copy of a famous hall in an old English manor house. Finished in mahogany with beamed ceiling, the frieze extending from the top of the wainscotting is the most remarkable work. It portrays the hunting scenes, woodlands and haunts of Robin Hood and Rob Roy. "In conclusion I might suggest that nearly all the art journals of Europe and America have contained able and complimentary criticisms of this house. Particularly I might mention the article written by one of the foremost authors of this country in the Architectural Record of July, 1907. I would like to BATH ROOM OF CARRARA MARBLE. ! 688 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. BANQUET ROOM. say that in all my work in this house I owe the inspiration and success thereof to the quiet tact, masterly handling of detail, and artistic suggestion of Mrs. A. W. McCune. "S. C. Dallas." Our readers may catch a glimpse through these pictures of this beautiful home, but no sketch and no pictures can convey the impression of beauty and harmony, of wide culture and sincere modesty, which animate this dwelling and which is the simple characteristic of the owners thereof. All in all, the world is richer for this assembling of beauty, and for those who possess and for those who enjoy. We congratulate ourselves and our readers on this excellent closing number of the present volume and express our sense of gratitude to readers, contributors, members of the Relief Society and officers, and above all to a gracious Providence who has blessed and guided our destinies through the year now closing. May the year 1917 be crowded with useful labor, opportunities for doing good, and the time, health and determination to be worthy of our blessings, is the holiday wish of this Magazine for all Nearest and Dearest. (A Christmas Story.) By Ruth Moench Bell. "Look over my Christmas list, Richard, and see if you can suggest any changes." With the expression of one on whom a long expected doom had fallen, Richard reached for the list. Then with masculine directness his eye took in the one important item: "Total $100." Christine had hoped he would approach the sum by degrees — and at the finish of a fascinating list of gifts be won over gifts calculated to win enthusiasm even from a male creature. Reached in this way, Christine felt that the $100 would appear a paltry sum for so many entrancing items. "What do you think of them," Christine asked, to divert him from the appalling total. "Could you imagine anything more delightful for your sister Clara than a glass baking dish?" Christine smiled seductively as she pointed to the article for which her heart yearned. "I don't know anything about those things," Richard sighed wearily. Then with simulated interest, "What was it you gave her last year?" he asked. "One of those casserole baking dishes. And the year before I gave her an aluminum baking dish." "Well, wouldn't they be enough of that sort of thing?" "Oh, you see these glass baking dishes are the latest thing." "I see. And the casserole was the latest thing last year. And aluminum was the latest the year before. Of course, it is all very well to have these latest things if one can afford them. But Tom's income is no larger than mine. Why not select something simple? Why not make her something?" "Oh, I have so many things to make, loads and loads of aprons and handkerchiefs and guest towels. And they all have to be trimmed with hand crochet. It will take every minute till Christmas. And it makes me so nervous." "Why do you keep up this silly custom?" "They all give me something. I couldn't refrain from giving in exchange." "I wish I could get hold of the bell-sheep," Richard smiled enigmatically, glancing up at the ceiling. "I don't know what you mean." "The gang leader." 690 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Women don't go in gangs," Christine, prettily indignant, flashed at him. "Well then, the prototype of your particular clique." "I do wish you would talk English, Richard, instead of slang and big words." "My dear, somebody sets the pace. Some woman stronger minded and more original than the rest of you." Up in the air went Christine's nose and chin. But her husband in amused unconcern, appeared not to notice her indignation. In fact he was delighted that his arrow had gone true, straight into the heart of his wife's pride. "Women and men are like sheep. They all trail unconsciously in the wake of the bell-sheep. My word, I wish I could find her and persuade her to lead her band through another gap." "You are delightfully complimentary," Christine snipped off, "I always flattered myself that I was the leader of our crowd." "So did I, my dear, so did I," her husband agreed. "Then why don't you lead them where there is better picking. The husbands of this band are barren waste, picked over stubble, shad scale, grease wood, buck brush." Richard's voice trailed off into a fit of laughter. "I think you are just as disgusting as you can be," Christine tried hard not to laugh at her husband's absurd simile. "Besides your figure is an exceedingly faulty one. You surely are not suggesting that the band pick Jacob Morse's pockets in search of clover and wild peas or whatever fodder millionaire sheep seem to prefer." Richard rocked with mirth over his wife's clever pursuit of his ridiculous comparison. And Christine, to conceal her merriment, flounced out of the house to visit with Richard's grandma. "Richard has accused me of not being the bell-sheep. And he has appraised himself as very poor picking," Christine laughed as she sank into grandma's easy chair. "And all that after contemplating, unmoved, this list of adorable trifles for Christmas gifts. Do you see anything extravagant there, grandma?" "Not a thing. Not a blessed thing," grandma smiled shrewdly. "Jacob Morse would scarcely notice an insignificant sum like that." Jacob Morse was the one millionaire of the town. And as his wealth was the result of extortionate prices on an indispensable commodity, his name was an unsavory morsel in the mouth of every one. "By the way, did I ever show you my rubbish heap in the attic?" grandma mused. "Never," Christine cried, "and I have been pining to see all those fascinating, old-fashioned things." Up into the attic with a brace of candle-sticks the twain hied. NEAREST AND DEAREST. 691 "Why, what is this?" Christine asked, holding up a dusty. battered object. Grandma surveyed it with amusement. "That, my dear, she said with a twinkle, "is a joke." "A joke?" Grandma gazed at the object quizzically, and the ripple of amusement that had wreathed her features, gave place to sympathetic concern. "On second thought," she said seriously, "it is a wrinkle producer." "A wrinkle producer?" Christine knew that grandma was addicted to cryptic remarks; but this one was decidedly puzzling. "They used to call them casters," grandma continued. "Every woman had to have one. I gave that one to Janet Wilson. She received two others for that Christmas. One was all that any woman could use; so mine went onto the what-not. And every other day Janet had the dismal task of dusting the vinegar bottle, the oil bottle, the pepper bottle, the salt bottle, the red-pepper bottle, and replacing them in the caster for which I yearned." "If you gave it to Janet, I don't see how it came to be here," Christine asked. "I got it by replevying it. You see Janet had given me something she wanted very much for herself. A print of Rembrandt's portrait of his mother, it was. It did not mean as much to me as it had meant to Janet. And one day after she had endured the sight of it strung up on the wall so close to the ceiling that no one could possibly see the sweet, tender face, she burst out laughing. 'I don't believe you care very much for that print, do you, Mary?' she asked. " 'Not especially,' I confessed. " 'I have always longed to possess it,' she sighed. 'I wanted to enjoy it every day. " 'I guess you feel toward it as I felt toward the caster I gave you.' I "laughed. 'And now you dust the caster, and I never look at the picture." " 'I'll tell you what,' she proposed, 'let's us trade presents.' "And we did," grandma continued. "And what is more, we quit making each other expensive presents. A glass of jam or a piece of extra good fruit cake or some little occasional trifle expressed our good will toward each other quite as well, and lessened the sense of obligation an expensive gift imposes." "That is what happened between Clara and me," Christine laughed. "I gave her a beautiful casserole, last year. She had let it be known that she wanted one. Then Tom gave her one. and Edna gave her one. And she never uses all three. Sometimes I have felt like snatching it off her buffet and running home with it and serving Richard a delicious scallop in it." 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Why don't you?" "Oh, I can't. And besides I'd rather have one of those glass baking dishes, now. The one I am getting for Clara. They are so much daintier." "Then the casserole Richard worked so hard to pay for, is already doomed to pass upward to the attic, a lonely, isolated companion for this caster which cost my husband so dearly." "Is that what you meant by calling it a wrinkle-producer?" Christine asked. "That is what I meant," grandma smiled. "Attics are full of wrinkle-producers. If women would visit their attics oftener, many of the things for which they long and for which their husbands strain to pay, would remain unbought, especially when they are to go to some one who knows what she wants better than any one else can guess." "It does look silly," Christine admitted. "But what can a person do? My relatives feel that they must give me something expensive." "Which their husbands cannot afford," grandma supplemented. "What do you suggest?" Christine begged. "Why not take Richard's suggestions and be the bell-sheep Lead the band into pastures of quiet and content." "But how can I go about it?" Christine enquired. "Just tell your friends that you are going to give no presents, hereafter, outside your immediate family. Tell them that you are going to consider the "nearest and dearest" this year, placing his peace of mind before all material gifts. Tell your friends that hereafter you will accept and give nothing but the gift supreme, the gift of the angels, good will." Richard was growing uneasy. The Christmas season was drawing nearer and nearer. And yet no mention was made of the money for the gifts, the $100 so difficult to raise. Christine was kindness and consideration itself. At first Richard was restive and suspicious of the warmth of affection which proverbially bodes ill for a man's purse strings. When the days passed and no attack was made on the slim wallet, a grim fear clutched him. The presents were being charged! The bills in that way would amount to considerably over the first cash estimate. Charged accounts always did. The extra affection was to prepare him for the January onslaught of bills. How deep these women were! — Now a mere man but what was the use? Richard's hand went into his pocket. He drew out five ten-dollar bills. He had schemed and maneuvered to save them to pay on their accounts. NEAREST AND DEAREST. 693 "We ought to square our accounts with these," he said as he handed them to his astonished wife. "But use them for those so Christmas gifts. Don't charge anything," he added. "It is more than one would think of paying, if one paid at once." Christine's eyes caught the worried look in her husband's face, and she yearned to press his boyish head in her arms and set his fears at rest. But no, she had made up her mind to wait till Christmas. "You know we are not to give each other anything, this year," Christine volunteered as a partial concession. Richard merely grunted. He had a distinct recollection of a similar remark made a certain Christmas before. A remark he had taken literally. And when he appeared that Christmas morning and found his sock filled to overflowing and caught Christine surreptitiously removing her empty stocking and weeping bitterly into it, he decided that the ways of women were past finding out. He registered this bit of Solomonic wisdom deep in his consciousness when a woman says "Let us give each other nothing," come provided with the handsomest gift you can procure. Richard made a mental note that he had better get a glass baking dish, like the one Christine had selected for Clara. He had already learned the feminine way of giving to each other the gift you desire for yourself. He was not surprised Christmas morning when he surveyed the array of tissue-paper-covered parcels heaped about his place. With the usual masculine misgivings as to what impractical atrocity may be lurking within, Richard undid the first parcel. He was interrupted by a cry of delight from Christine. "The very dish I was going to get Clara," she laughed, "but Richard, I thought we were not to get anything for each other this Christmas." "I kept my promise as well as you did yours," he retorted as the first wrapper fell from the parcel. Then a look of misery crossed his face as he read the card, "A wrinkle-eradicator for my dear husband." Cold cream! She had bought him cold cream! Richard almost shuddered. Surely Christine knew how he loathed the touch or sight of cold cream or oil of any sort. Truly a man never knew what might happen to him after he married. He undid the second wrapper. Instead of a jar of cold cream, a roll of bills slipped out. Then she had charged the presents. Richard picked up the first one. It was marked paid. So were each of the others. They were the bills he had meant to pay with the fifty dollars he gave her. Somewhat mystified, he glanced at his wife. But she was already by his side, her arms about his neck, her cheek against 694 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. his. "I wanted you to be happy this Christmas, sweetheart," she cried, "peace in your heart and no worries on your brow. I have been the bell-sheep, too, as you suggested. All of our crowd have taken grandma's suggestion and considered first of all the one 'nearest and dearest.' But you haven't opened the other package I sent you." With eager fingers, Richard undid the wrappings. After innumerable papers had been removed he found only a card on which was written: "This gift, I give to you, the gift of the angels, my unfailing, unwavering good-will. Please God, it is to be yours forever. Never to be dusted or consigned to the attic. It implies no return favor unless you will, and I so merit it, your gift of good-will toward me." "It was the only gift I sent out," Christine cried as her husband folded her in his arms, "but I sent it to each of my friends. They say it is good to give gifts. It expands the spirit. If that is true, and I believe it is, surely the gift of good-will expands and enriches the soul more than any other gift: because more of ourselves goes into the giving. I used to worry over whether this or that present would please. I used to scheme and contrive to extract money from you to pay for things. Sometimes I even thought with resentment of the friends as I puzzled and stitched to please them. This Christmas season, to make good my gift, I have thought with the tenderest sympathy and warmest love of the many friends I wished to remember. I have pledged myself to allow no unkind thoughts to arise in my heart about them. I shall permit no ill-natured criticism of them to reach me unchallenged. And I like to hope that wherever they are today, each is sending her message of good-will to me." "I know one that is," Richard cried, deeply moved, "one whose love is deepened a thousand-fold. I believe good-will is sometimes a rare gift from a wife to her husband and vice versa. And I'm prouder to have married the bell-sheep than I was to marry the belle of the balls we used to attend." It is always something of a problem to find books for children that interest and amuse them while delicately suggesting a moral lesson at the same time. The story just out by Lebbeus Mitchell called Bobby in Search of a Birthday is both appealing and interesting. It is a perfectly safe book to put in the hands of children, and parents will find it full of a touching charm as well. Those who want a Christmas book for children would do well to buy this little volume. Sold by P. F. Volland & Co.,, Chicago, Illinois. How Betty Helped. (Concluded.) Elsie Chamberlain Carroll. "Well, the only thing to do," she confided to herself, "is to keep my eyes open and do what I can," and so the days went by with little perceptible change. And then one morning when Betty entered the kitchen with her customary, "Good morning, Aunt Laura; may I help you with breakfast?" Mrs. Benton had answered: "Well, yes. I guess I will let you fry the eggs and set the table while I go up and see if your uncle is going to work. He has a dreadful cold. Seems as if we didn't sleep a wink all night, he was coughing and tossing about all the time. I feel about sick myself. I do wish Blanche and Nellie were not so hard to get up in the mornings." By the time breakfast was ready, Mr. Benton came down but he looked flushed and tired and kept on coughing. He scarcely touched his breakfast. "You had better not go to work," Mrs. Benton remonstrated, when he arose from the table. "I can't afford to lay off for a little cold. I'll be all right when I get to work." "Well, be careful and don't take any more cold," his wife warned as he left the house. "Dear me. I feel half sick myself," she complained again as she arose from the table. "And I ought to go to the store and get the cloth and start on Nellie's graduating dress." "Aunt Laura," Betty spoke up quickly, "I've been thinking of Nellie's graduating dress for a week and I've thought out a beautiful design. Won't you let Blanche and me make it? We'll hurry and do up the work and go to the store for what we need and start on it this very morning while you go to your room and have a nap." Mrs. Benton was finding it hard to continually repulse her good-natured, persistent niece, and (she admitted the fact less grudgingly than she would have done a month ago), there was no denying that Betty was very capable. "Well, you can try," she said reluctantly after a moment's study. "I'm sure I don't feel like doing anything at it today. But it's got to be inexpensive. We simply can't afford anything at all dear. I'm afraid with your city tastes, Betty, you won't know how to decide on material. Ike Newman is worrying your: 696 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. uncle about a note and we've simply got to cut down expenses some way. We can't afford more than two or three dollars for the dress, trimming and all." Betty was delighted with this unexpected revelation of her aunt's consciousness, and answered with a bright smile "I've already decided on the material. Aunt Laura, and the dress won't cost more than a couple of dollars at the very most." Her aunt regarded her skeptically. "Well, of course we don't want it to look too cheap," she conditioned. "Of course we don't. Only let us try and I'm sure you'll be satisfied," Betty urged, as she began clearing away the table things. Mrs. Benton gave a reluctant consent as she started to her room. "Blanche, do you wear that white swiss dress that hangs away back in your closet?" Betty asked eagerly. Her cousin laughed. "Can you see me in puffed sleeves and flounced skirts? That's been worn out an age. It has a hole as big as your head in the middle of the back gore." "I know, but it is beautiful material and will make Nellie the loveliest graduating dress! You and I are going to make it and surprise her and your mother. All we'll need to buy is some ribbon for a girdle and some embroidery floss. I've thought out the — dearest style a little loose eton jacket effect and a double skirt. Mother made me one two summers ago out of an old dress Aunt Hilda sent." Blanche stared for a moment, then she gave her cousin an impulsive squeeze. "You're a dear, Betty. I wonder if you can't help me make over a lot of my old duds. I'm sick for a new dress for June conference, but really I'm ashamed to ask Dad for it. He seems so worried over things just now. Aren't debts horrid things?" Betty grasped this opportunity. "Of course they're horrid. The thing for you and Nellie and Bobby and all of you to do is to help your father get rid of those debts." "But how can we help? Nellie and Bob are in school and mother needs me. I don't know where I could get work anyway. There isn't much a girl can do in M to help pay off a debt," "There's a whole lot a girl can do in M or in any other place, for she doesn't need to step out of her own home to begin. Haven't you ever thought how true the old saying is that 'A dollar saved is a dollar earned?' " And so the conversation continued as the two girls washed dishes and swept and dusted. By the time they were ready to go up to inspect the old swiss dress, Betty knew she had won a strong ally for her cause and HOW BETTY HELPED. 697 she depended on Blanche to do for her mother what she herself could not accomplish. She did not know that fate was going to take a hand in the game. At noon Mr. Benton telephoned that he was not coming home for dinner. Betty knew her aunt was worried as well as she herself was. When he came home at night, there was no denying that he was a very sick man. They got him to bed and applied simple remedies, but by nine o'clock his fever was so high and his breathing so difficult that they sent for the elders and the village doctor. Doctor Stanton looked very grave as he examined the patient. "I'm afraid," he told them later down in the hall, "that he has typhoid pneumonia." Mrs. Benton almost collapsed and the girls became hysterical. Never had Dad been sick before. They could think of nothing but the worst. The doctor continued, "I think we'll be able to pull him through all right. He has a strong constitution, but he evidently has been under a strain for some time and his vitality is low just now." "We'll have to have a trained nurse," wailed Mrs. Benton. "I never could take proper care of him with the house and all to think about." "Aunt Laura, there is no need of that. You can follow the doctor's directions just as well as a trained nurse, can't she. Doctor Stanton? And as for the house, please leave that to me. I'd so love to do something in return for yours and Uncle Rob's kindness to me." "You're a good girl, Betty," was her unexpected reward. "And if the doctor thinks I— could do the nursing— right— I'd like to do all I can." "I always did believe a man's best nurse is his wife," the doctor replied. For two long weeks Robert Benton lay struggling between life and death. They were terrible weeks to the woman watching over his bedside. During the torturing hours when she sat listening to his delirium she saw herself and her husband as she had never seen either before. Rob had always been so kind, so uncomplaining and quiet she had never dreamed how he had chafed under his inability to rise more rapidly in the world how; he had grieved over not being able to provide better for his family. She thought of the many times she must have hurt him to the quick. She saw her own inefficiency now, and realized how much better he had done his part than she had done hers. As the terrible days dragged on her whole being centered in a prayer that he might be spared so she could make amends. She could see so many ways where she could save; so many ways where she could make life easier for Rob. —: 698 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. And down stairs the routine of the house went on smoothly in Betty's trained grasp. She had long-, serious talks with her cousins in which she gave them of the knowledge she and her mother had sacrificed for her to gain. She enthused B.ob over a kitchen garden and a small poultry industry. She sent to the college for bulletins and helped him make his plans. She taught Blanche how to make their last summer hats over, and helped Nellie make a lot of fancy candy to sell at a bazaar the Bee-Hive Girls were getting up. But more than anything else she made them realize (perhaps all the more forcibly because of her own loss) the great worth of the father whom they had grown to consider as primarily the provi 'er of their needs. She led them to feel that the home was an institution in which the members of the family were partners and that it was the duty of each to share in the responsibilities. And then one day, when the danger was past and the sick man was slowly convalescing, Mrs. Benton came down stairs with a paper and pencil in her hands. "Go up and sit with father awhile," she said to Blanche. "I want to talk with Betty." When they were alone there was a moment of embarrassed silence, then Mrs. Benton looked straight into the eyes of her niece. "Betty, I see now what a blind, selfish, extravagant woman I've been, just as plainly as you must have seen it two months ago, and as plain as your uncle, bless his generous heart, must have been seeing it for years. Our Heavenly Father has been good enough to spare him to us and now I want to make amends." Her voice choked and she wiped her eyes. "I've been going over the accounts you have kept while your uncle has been sick and I'm really astonished at the way I must have been wasting and didn't know it. I want you to help me, dear. Here is a budget system I've been figuring out. See what you think of it." Betty took the figure-covered sheet, and her aunt went on earnestly "If WiC can live within that budget for three years (and I don't see why we can't) we'll be able to pay Ike Newman every cent we owe him and our home will be our own." CONSISTENCY. "Look, mother," said little Bobby, proudly exhibiting a hatful of marbles, "I won all these from Willie Smith." "Why Bobby," exclaimed his mother, "don't you know it's wicked to play marbles for keeps? Go right over to Willie's house and give him back every one of his marbles." "Yes, mother," said the boy, obediently. "And shall I take that vase you won at Mrs. Smith's whist party and give it back to her?" Boston Post, The Spirit of the Gift. By Gertrude McCheyne. Since the days when the Wise men brought gifts and laid, them at the feet of the newly born babe in Bethlehem, in whatever part of the world his name is known, this birthday that was to make possible the joy of the Easter resurrection day is celebrated. The giving of the Christmas gift, whether in the form of an act of service, or material substance, or only in the form of a spoken greeting, when given in the spirit of peace and good will, is one of the most beautiful customs, and one that we would never wish to see cease. Given in the name of the Prince of Peace such gifts are the means of healing the wounds of bereavement, afford the opportunity for uniting friends severed by misunderstanding, while communities in a state of civil war over some issues have been unable to withstand the peal of the Christmas bells, and have exchanged greetings with their neighbors. But there are certain characteristics that should belong to the Christmas gift. It must be a free will oft'ering, given because) the giver wants to give. Any suggestion of the commercial exchange destroys its meaning. Imagine anyone thinking over the names of former donors and the probable worth of their gifts so as to be sure to return one of similar value this season!A plan followed by a friend of mine is a good one. Except in the case of near relatives or an inner circle of friends, she sends her gifts to different people each year and even in the; cases of those nearest to her, she varies her gifts, knowing that so great is our love for her that a Christmas letter is valued most of all. Then, too, the gift, to carry out the thought of the day, must be unselfish. You have doubtless read the story of the wife who each year made her husband a present of something that she herself especially desired, and he would accept it with a. joking remark, until once she gave him a lady's riding saddle and whip when he retaliated by giving her a shaving set. The gift must show that the giver had an intuitive sense of the tastes and surroundings of the person who will receive it. You remember in "Rebecca of Sunny Brook Farm" how out of the love of her heart she bought out of the first money she ever earned a banquet lamp for a little comrade's family, who rarely had a real meal, let alone a banquet. We see gifts of shoddy china, cheap ornaments, nick-nacks that are only dust harborers. when a card, a handkerchief, or 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. evicn a line of remembrance would have shown the spirit of the day better. Our Christmas gifts need not be costly, and when they show the stamp of individual work they are all the more desirable. But they should not be burdensome in the making-. The woman who sito up the greater part of each night some weeks prior to Christmas is making a toil of what should be joy. The gift drawer or box is not only a preventive of this, but is also a constant reminder to all the family of the Christmas spirit throughout the year. It gives a better chance too for us to notice what gifts would give most pleasure. A summer call on a friend reveals the lack of holders for her flowers, her desire for a certain book is learned during a conversation, or perhaps a meal at another friend's house reveals the value to her of a set of table mats. They are listed in the gift book and are sometimes picked up during a vacation trip, or the mats are one of the many pieces of needlework raised to the dignity of "a reason for being made" instead of just to pass the time. Who knows but that the gift box may go even farther in its influence. If a dozen women meet together for an afternoon of fancy work, would it be quite as easy to start a bit of gossip about an absent friend if one or more of the crowd were working on a Christmas gift for her? I think not. Gifts should have a touch of originality. There are few housekeepers but would like to receive some of the inexpensive "nifties" for the kitchen. Spatulas, measuring cups, wire &gg boilers, dish drainers and others, none of which cost over fifty cents, but which are worth many times more to the user. We may give seeds from much admired home grown plants, an assortment of colored twines and wrapping paper, outfits of buttons, tape and needles to the busy mother of many, some canned fruit, preserve or confection for which a housewife is famous, and above all the trip in kodak pictures mounted and written up, for the "shut ins" gift. These and many others cost the giver little else than time and thought. But no matter whether the gifts be purchased or home made, it is the manner of its "putting up" that gives the charming touch to the simplest article. This is something that cannot be hurried. Woe betide the one who leaves the packing of her Christmas gifts to the night on which the tree has to be decorated, for they will lack both daintiness and finish. In its wrapping of snowy paper, tied with the Christmas color or perchance some shade that is especially suggestive of the recipient's taste, with perhaps a spray of holly or the California Christmas berry, or maybe a bit of heather, speaking to the hearts of those from across the sea of — fragrant moors and other days before ever we open it the gift tells of the giver's love and good will. THE SPIRIT OF THE GIFT. 701 But when all the joy of giving and receiving is over, there remains something of which some grow careless in these days of — rush ^the line or word of thanks and aconwledgment. The receiving and sending of these are a part of the gifts. The omission is rarely due to deliberate neglect, but sometimes we let the days slip by till memory is rudely jogged by a courteous note from our friend asking whether the gift ever reached its destination. Sometimes in the confusion of unpacking, cards become misplaced or lost. It is wise to lightly retie each gift in its wrapper or to make a list at once and then at the earliest possible moment, provided with small note paper and cards, send the gracious acceptance of each gift. This article would be incomplete without a word as to children's gifts. There is probably no place where so many mistakes are made. The grace of giving should be a part of every child's education. It is demoralizing for an elder to buy something manifestly beyond the child's pocket book, for him to give. The weekly allowance or payment for some work with the understanding that the gifts are to be purchased with his own money, is a liberal training in economics. A child should never be forced to give where his heart does not prompt him to do so. As to what we shall give children, one might say that we cannot go far wrong if we make not only Christmas but every occasion an excuse for the giving of books. To these might be added book shelves, book markers, paper cutters. Too many cheap toys are a waste of money. A few well chosen and especially if they have educational value, will be found to hold the interest of even a young child. It is a good plan after the Christmas toys have all been tested, to put away some of them and bring them out some rainy day when they will have a fresh interest. Toys that stimulate endeavor are valuable. Lessons in purchasing would result from a toy grocery store with scales. Dolls with their ready-made wardrobes do not hold the same interest as the same doll with pieces of material, patterns and sewing outfit would. The latter afifords a never-failing source of pleasure and a tax on the ingenuity of the little mother. And so as the gift season is again with us may the spirit of the gift be in us that each gift we give may hold the significance of the Herald angels' song "Glory to God in the Highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." : : Perfect Guidance of Children. TRUTH-TELLING AND THE PROBLEM OF CHILDREN'S LIES. By Lucy Wright Snow. There is no parental virtue so completely reflected in a child as truth-telling. Therefore, the problem of proper guidance of the child in this virtue is principally that of furnishing him with truth-loving, truth-telling parents. Susan Chenery in her helpful book, As the Twig is Bent, holds strongly to the belief that a mother should never tell even the whitest lie to her child. If mothers will listen carefully they might find themselves saying something like this "Oh, here comes Mrs. So and So, and how I look! Daughter, you answer the door and tell her mother is not at home." What can she expect of her daughter in the way of truth-telling? 'Twas Emilie Poulsson who said, "Truth is not a child's virtue, it is the supreme attainment of maturity." Parents who have learned through lorg years of experience, the value of truth, too often expect their little one to tell truth before he has learned how many a child on being chastened for lying, has; been heard to remark "Well, why doesn't someone tell me how: to tell the truth, so I can tell it?" He should be taught what truth is by* a gradual process. First, there must be a healthy home condition. If the family life is open and honest it will not likely occur to the child that there is any necessity for lying. Before he is old enough to learn truth, he must absorb it by being surrounded by wholesome conditions. Under such conditions, boys and girls will he wholesome as a matter of course. We have an excellent definition by Dean Farrar he says; "If you would be perfectly honest, never pretend to be doing what you are not doing; never pretend to have done what you have not done never be surprised into a concealment or startled; into a falsehood such manslaughter on truth always ends in; murder." But, besides giving the child a truthful environment, there has to be definite instruction in truth-telling. Begin by telling him simple, scriptural stories. Give many illustrations from your own experiences. There is nothing so interesting to a child as stories of when mother or father was a child. In telling these stories, do not always hold yourself up as a model of perfection, PERFECT GUIDANCE OF CHILDREN. 703 lest the stories lose their "twinkl” 'and become monotonous, or the child learns to brag. Let the joke come on yourself occassionally, it will introduce a sense of humor and show that you are not afraid of criticism. But never tell a story that shades the truth. A very efifective way of correcting a child or teaching a point is to appeal to his humor. When a child is corrected jokingly, if he sees the joke, quite likely in recalling it, he will corelate the joke with the correction and profit by it. Often, a child can be appealed to by the ridiculous better than by the serious side of things. For example: The story of the boy who stole the plums from school and eventually when on the scafifold convicted of divers crimes, bit off the ear of his aunt for not having corrected him for his first offense, that of stealing the plums. The very ridiculousness of biting off an ear, makes the story one never to be forgotten. However, care should be exercised in telling of your own imp,erfections, lest the child take license and think that he may do wrong because mother did. It has been wisely said: "Always present the right to a child, since he is not able as yet to find the underlying thought of a moral storv unless it is clearly defined." Many mothers think it is necessary to evade truth, or lie to their children concerning such subjects as Santa Claus or — The Story of Life not so it requires but to know your child; and your subject well, to be able to tell truth concerning any subject. It does not follow that one should tell the little child everything of every subject; be governed by age and conditions. A child's questions are a guide to when and what to tell, and if the clever mother always assumes the "listening attitude" she will kriow by instinct how to tell just enough and not too much. Always answer a child's questions in a simple, truthful way, not necessarially entering into lengthy detail. LIES OF IMAGINATION. These are not serious lies, and need not be corrected severely, though the mother must be alert to distinguish between an imaginative lie and a lie to deceive. Allow the child to tell all the make-believe stories he wants to, but it is very important that he be taught to distinguish them as make-believe stories. If he forgets to do this, the mother should help him every time to — remember "What fine make-believe stories you can tell, can't you?" Encoura,ge him to tell a story over several times insisting on accuracy of statement. LIES OF FEAR. Spontaneous lies of fear are usually told from fear of punishment after doing wrong. To correct these, do not ask search; 704 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. ing questions as: "Did you take your brother's nickel?" Rather work out the detail in your own mind and lead him to repentance, e. g. "I'm sorry you took your brother's nickel come and tell — mother all about it, perhaps she can help you out of your trouble." SELFISH LYING. When a child actually lies to gain some end, we have a serious condition which should nev,er be allowed to pass by uncorrected. After such a lie, the mother should take the guilty one into a room alone and have a good serious talk with him. Tell him how she trusts him and how no one will be able to trust him if he continues to lie. Parents should not be discouraged but firm in their determination to exterminate the lie. The mother's main duty in life, at this particular time, is to see that this evil is nipped in the bud. If necesary, punish. If she is alert to detect every lie and correct it at the right time, she may consider that she has scored a great success in his proper guidance. One of the greatest mediums by which a child may be guided, properly, in all subjects, is the medium of prayer, and especially in the problems of Fear and Falsehood. Teach him to talk to God what blessings are, and the source from whom they come; to be thankful for his blessings then when he has conceived the; idea of gratitude to God, teach him to ask God to help him in whatsoever he may need assistance. Tell him many times the story of the Prophet Daniel — how he learned to pray at his mother's knee, and how Godi answered his prayer of faith by protecting him from the mouths of the hungry lions. Teach him that he can learn how to tell truth, and that he can surmount all his difficulties through prayer in faith, and effort. Let the father, in leading the family prayer, pray that the children may learn to be strong, obedient and truthful or whatever his discretion may lead him to ask God for. In conclusion, let us call to mind the words "To thine own: self be true he loves truth best who to himself is true." ; Books to read on the subject: Virginibus Puerisque, by Robert Louis Stevenson, published by Chas. Scribner's Sons, New York The Mother Artist, by Jane; Dearborn Mills, published by Palmer Co., Boston; Book of Daniel; Psalms 15:12. Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. Shoes went higher in October, not in dimensions but in price, the increase being 15% and 20% above previous figures. Beets raised for sugar factores go up 50 cents per ton to the grower next season and the sugar goes up to the consumer. ; The baseball season in the United States closed with the Boston team as world champions, winning over Brooklyn. Mexican matters do not improve, either in the disturbances in Mexico or in the antagonism felt there toward the United States. Wheat and vegetables are up in price, and still goin,g up. The staff of life will be a great necessity ere long, even in these United States. The State Fair this year had rainy weather five days out of seven, so that there is serious thought of holding the fair a week earlier in the season hereafter. Air raids to the number of 500 a day in the European war show the remarkable extent to which "fighting in the clouds" has been developed in the past two years. Deep Creek region, in western Utah, is to have a railroad, construction work already having been commenced southward from Wendover, on the Western Pacific railway. France has annexed a square mile of territory in China, adjoining the French possession there. The new acquisition was French-owned and occupied, so there is no worry over it. Verdun's great battle was suddenly resumed in October, the French regaining considerable ground previously lost. Thus the pendulum of war swings to and fro there, with no decisive result. Workers is a term aptly applied to the girl students at the University of Utah, where, out of 720 young ladies in attendance, 360 are earning their living in whole or in part, while attending school. 706 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The Danish West Indies was visited by a fierce hurricane in October, with a damage of $2,000,000 in property, and twothirds of the people in need of food and half of these deprived of shelter. A CORDIAL GREETING was givcn the Utah troops who returned from the Mexican border at the end of October and the troopers; seemed as pleased to be back home as the people were glad to have them here. A German squadron of torpedo-boat destroyers made a daringraid into the English Channel, during the last week in October, and engaged in battle with the British war vessels, losses being about even. The interurban railways centering at Salt Lake City announce an open passenger rate of 2 cents per mile, and a mileagebook rate of 1 cent per mile, on and after December 1. This is the cheapest railway traffic yet known in Utah. The Agricultural department at Washington advocated a more liberal use of potatoes mixed with wheat flour in making bread, and immediately the price of potatoes went up to a figure unheard of before in the history of the country. At Bayonne, New Jersey, a crowd of strikers attacked the firedepartment and demolished a fire engine, during the progress of a fire. To protect the firemen, the police had to shoot into the crowd, several persons being hurt, and one woman killed. At Detroit, Michigan, in October, a street car full of passengers was run into by a switching train, at a crossing, with the result that fourteen passengers were killed and twenty-five hurt. Lack of care by the crews on both sides caused the disaster. An exchange of persons over 45 years of age who have been interned in Germany and Great Britain has been arranged between those two powers. When the transfer is made, these people may not be better fed, but they will feel more at home The Chiropractors want the Lcigislature to recognize them as such by state law. Whether right or wrong, heretofore the regular medical fraternity has opposed any new cult in the healingart, so a contest may be looked for at the next legislative session. Women as speakers in political campaigns have demonstrated in Utah that they are quite as vigorous and intellectual as the CURRENT TOPICS. 707 men, in discussing political questions, and they indulge in much less personal abuse than some of the masculine gender who make public speeches. The Saltair line from Salt Lake City is to be electrified and extended five miles to the Tooele county boundary. Electricity is proving to be cheaper than steam power in actual use, as well as enabling a more conveni-ent service to be given on railways. Submarine activity by which one German submarine sank six vessels ofif the American coast in October has convinced the thinking men of America that the United States is not so isolated after all, in case of a war between this "nation and great European powers. The Austrian premier, Count Karl Streugkh, has been assassinated by a newspaper editor, Friedrich Alder, who disagrees with Austria's war policy. It will not be strange if further assassinations, or attempts thereat, occur in Europe's warring nations. The British and French gains against Germany on the western war front continue slowly, the expenditure in life and munitions being stupendous. From present indications, the war may not be more than half through, with no certainty as to the ultimate result. The Japanese question, so far as the right of the "little brown men" to own land in the United States is concerned, is to be settled bv the United States Supreme Court, on a suit brought in California to confiscate land heretofore purchased and now held by a Japanese resident there. Greece has accepted the terms of the entente allies to let the latter have free reign there against the Teutonic allies. This action by the Greek government has prevented, at least for the present, the establishment of a republic in Greece, under the protecting patronage of Great Britain and France. The strike of milk-producers in New. York finallv was brou,ght to an end by official action compelling the producers and dealers to get together on a basis arranged for them. Tt seems necessary in a case of this kind for an outside controlling factor to enforce settlement for the safetv of the public, because the Parties at issue each develop a selfishness that precludes settlepient by either compromise or arbitration. Christmas Menus By Gertrude McCheyne. RECIPES. Croutons. Butter lightly on each side slices of bread cut one-third Inch thick. Cut into dice and brown in oven. Cheese Canapes. Cut slices of bread into rings; butter lightly,on each side; brown in oven; remove and sprinkle with grated cheese; allow to melt in warming oven. Beet Salad. Cut beets finely; mix with hard boiled eggs and put through the chopper; sprinkle with grated cheese. Fruit Cocktails. (1) Cut pineapple, orange and grapes into small pieces; pour over the fruit a syrup made from the juice of pineapple and orange, to which add enough lemon juice to give an acid flavor. Sprinkle lightly with paprika. (2) Canned pears cut in dice, black grapes or cherries and small pieces of crystallized ginger. DRESSINGS Turkey. (1) 4 c. bread crumbs; % c. suet, chopped finely; 1 tsp. salt; 1 tabsp. parsley, cut finely; 1 tbsp. grated lemon peel; 1 egg. (2) 2 c. soft bread crumbs; % c. melted butter; ^4 tsp. salt; % tsp. pepper; 1 tsp. sage; 1 egg. Duck and Goose. Boil two medium-sized onions until tender; mash and add twothirds cup bread crumb. Season with sage, pepper and salt. Lemon Pie (Southern Recipe). 1sugar; 1 c. water; 1 tsp. butter; boil together and allow to c. cool. 2 egg yolks, beat well. Add 2 tbsp. flour and grated rind of,one lemon. Stir liquid into egg mixture. Make meringue of egg whites. Carrot Pudding. 1 c. bread crumbs; 1 c. carrots; 1 c. raisins or dates; 1 c. suet; 54 c. molasses; 14 c. brown sugar, 2 c. flour; 1 c. milk; 1 tsp. cinnamon; % tsp. allspice; ^^ tsp. salt; 2 tsp. baking powder; 1 c. lemon-citron; 2 eggs. Steam 2 hours. English Plum Pudding. i/a lb. bread crumbs, stale; 1 c. scalded milk;. Soak. ^ lb. sugar; 4 eggs; Yz lb. raisins; % lb. currants, 2 oz. candied peels. Add to milk. 2 oz. creamed suet; 14 grated nutmeg; 1 tsp. allspice; 1^ tsp. salt; 4 egg whites, beat stiff. Add to mixture. Steam 8 hours. SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. Drawn Butter Sauce. ^ c. butter; 1 tbsp. flour. Melt together. Add J^ c. water; let simmer; 1 tbsp. sugar; flavor as desired just before removing from heat. Orange Sauce. 1 tsbp, butter; 1 tbsp. flour. Cook together. Add 1 c. water and z. tbsp. sugar; 1 tsp. grated rind of orange; 1 tbsp. orange juice. Genealogical Lesson Books. The book of reference which was consulted in the preparation of these lessons is S. Barring-Gould's Story of Family Names, : which can be purchased, after Christmas, at the Deseret Sunday School Union Book Store, or the Deseret News Book Store, for $3.50. We aim to make our lessons sufficiently complete to give necessary information where wards are unable to purchase the book. A new edition is printing in England. Our lessons have not been taken altogether from this book, for we have consulted English history, Charlotte Young's Christian Names, and Bardsley's English Surnames; but Barring-Gould's book is sufficient to furnish all material needed in preparing the lessons, if more information is wished than the lessons themselves supply. Suggestive List of Books for the Family Library. 1. "Story of Mother Goose," v. age 4-6. 2. "Moni, the Goat Boy," 6-8. , 3 "The Bird's Christmas Carol." 4. "Page Story Book," 8-10. 5. "Prince and Pauper." 10-12. 6. "Little Women." 10-12. 7. "Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm." 10-12. 8. "Story of My Life," Keller; 10-12. 9. "Little Shepherd of Kingdom Come." 12-14. 10. "Old Fashioned Girl," 12-14. 11. "The Crisis," 12-16. 12. "Ben Hur." 14-16. 13. "Cities of the Sun," Elizabeth C. Porter; 16-20. 14. "Life Among The Indians," Jacob Hamblin, R. D. 15. "My First Mission." Cannon. 16. "Lydia Knights' History," Homespun. 17. "Thrilling Experiences," Kimball. 18. "Helpful Visions," Whitney. 19. "Leaves from My Jounral." Woodruff. 20. "Scraps of Biography." EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Eumeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williami First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SusA Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. III. DECEMBER, 1916. No. 12. PEACE ON EARTH. Without, the storm blows noisily around my Storm Without home, the windows rattle, fierce cries the Peace Within, wind, and snow piles up over the doorstep. The streets echo with wild storm-whistling, and even the street-car bell bangs more noisily as the car pushes its difficult way through the muffling snow. Cold gusts pierce the casement, and under the sill, flakes of snow are blown to pile up in silent Lilliputian mounds inside the loose door fittings. Before the fire I sit, my feet warmed by the red blaze, my arms encircled with the fire's glow. Sometimes I lift my gaze from the Scriptures lying on my knee, and then both eyes and ears attest that there is storm and blustering cold without. Wrapping mv happy thoughts about me, I rest within my shelter, for I have lived my day of stress and cold, have breasted wind and snow, hnve earned the sheltering peace which now, through mine own choice, and by God's will, I here enjoy. Below, storms whistle, ; winds, for I have built a sheltering wall of peace in which to rest and sleep. This is peace, the peace of solitude and night. Outside, men are rushing, women pushing. Confusion children running to and from, while noise and Reigns confusion crowd the highways and byways Supreme. of life. Bells jingle out of tune, machines — shriek as they fly buzzing through the air, EDITORIAL. 711 shrill steam-exhaust calls to shriller auto-siren. Down the still country lane honks whizzing motor-cycles clashing and clamor; ing interurban cars rip the country silences, and all the dells are fdled with filming crowds. Boats fly, cars flash, and air-planes loop heaven's blue. Into my canyon I go, so far away and above men's haunts that still nature is there to wrap my soul in peace. I walk alone amid the columbines, while only clouds and butterflies have motion in the silence. Ah, this is peace. The peace of isolation. I know that men are hurrying and women struggling down there — I, too, have toiled and rushed. Now I close the canyon door on all the world's confusion, and sit down on the mountain side with peace for my companion. Armies are marching, women are crying, God Will Give little orphaned children are hungry just for Us Peace. bread. The world is circled with a bleeding corslet, and men are killed as engines of destruction multiply. Miles and miles of living hillocks kill and maim the human insects crawling there. Hospitals vomit out great daily crowds of useless living wrecks, while yawning graves — hold multitudes of nameless men. Worse ten thousand times — worse babies are hourly born into spiritual blindness women; diseased by untaught, unchaste husbands and fathers; youths and maidens growing up into the dim, shadowy recesses of outworn creeds, spirits cramped, bodies warped and hearts passion-stifled for lack of the pure teachings of Christ. Yet, into the solitude of quiet Christmas thoughts I steal away and isolate my soul on the mountain-top of peace, while the year goes jangling down the cloisters of the yesterdays. I long, I yearn, I pray for peace— peace when there is so little peace. Yet know I that God is in His world, and if my pulsing hands have urged their daily dole, if my toil has clasped the yesterdays with unselfish, loving service — — He will grant me peace at times that I may rest and praiseHis name. — — Peace because I love my fellow men because it is — God's world, and He will order all things well His children are — — His own and very dear to Him He knows He sees the con— flicts of great nations and the tears of little babies are alike His — care— and I well, I gladly serve. And thus comes peace to me while storm and noise and war prevail o'er all the earth yet I — have peace at times. Just now the Christmas midnight strikes the hour and I hear the" church bells ringing while the angels sing the old, old song first heard on Jewry's hills — "Peace on earth!" to men of good will Preview of Guide Work for 1916-17. THE BIBLE. The Prophet Nephi tells us that he found it difficult to make the younger generation, who had grown up in the Land of Promise, understand the language of the Plates of Brass, which we now call the Old Testament, because they had not seen and lived am,ong the people for whom these writings were intended, and were not therefore familiar with the habits of thought and customs of life of those people. If, then, Nephi found difficulty, after a single generation, in making the Scriptures clear to those who had not been reared in Palestine, what shall we say of ourselves, who are many (generations removed from that land and those habits and customs described in the Bible? Now, the Society last year studied the principal Relief women of the Hebrew Scriptures. Doubtless, although an effort was made to interpret these characters in terms of modern life, the study proved more or less hard to grasp, principally because the ways of eastern peoples in those days were so different from ours. And so it has been decided this coming year to study the peoples among whom these women lived and worked. This study ought to be both interesting and enlightening. It will cover the geography of the places where the women lived who were discussed last year, the kind of people who lived there at the time, the things they did, their habits of thought, their dress, their customs in society and government, and whatever else will throw light upon the characters themselves whom we know something about already. But all this will be done in a way that will be interesting and readable, not in the manner of the dry-as-dust historian. And in connection with this study, there will be given readings from the Bible, covering the particular periods in which the women lived. These, of course, will not be published in the Magazine, but will be given as references. They will constitute the passages in the Hebrew Scriptures which will illustrate the writings of the various ages in the history of this marvelous race. Thus those who follow this series of lessons will get, first, some pages of great literature secondly, the principal women whose influence was most felt at various times which the passages tell us about, and thirdly, such side-lights as to geography, character, and customs, as will make these pages and these characters stand out clearly before the mind. PREVIEW OF GUIDE WORK. 713 THEOLOGY OUTLINES. HOW AND WHERE THE WOMEN OF THE BIBLE LIVED. 1. The Garden of Eden. 2. The Abrahamic Age. 3. The days of Isaac and Rebecca. 4. When they sought wives in other ways than ours. 5. The days of woman's power. 6. Gleaning in alien fields. 7. When Israel lived in exile. 8. The period of the Maccabees. 9. The New Testament days. 10. The New Testament days (continued). GENEALOGY. REPORT FROM THE GENEALOGICAL COMMITTEE OF THE GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. This year our lessons will take up surnames. The subjects will be subdivided as follows: • GENEALOGY. September Introduction October Tribal surnames. Sire-names November Scotch and Irish names December Anglo-Saxon names January Scandinavian names in England February Surnames for town and castle March Place names April Trade names May Nick and descriptive names June Prefixes and suffixes We recommend the class teachers to give six primary genealogical lessons at least one week during the winter. These primary lessons should be insisted upon every year until all the people are thoroughly acquainted with the method of preparing genealogical information. Genealogical conventions should be held when stakes can secure the services of a teacher from this Board or from the Genealogical Society of Utah. We also recommend that excursions be arranged to the temples in your districts, if possible, once a month from each ward. Where this is impossible, have your committees take one day a month in some convenient room and invite the people to come with their records and show them how to make out records, and how to secure genealogical information. Instructions on how to arrange excursions were given in our genealogical classes during the late conference. 714 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The most important practical work given this year to our Society to do in this line is the invitation extended to us from the Genealogical Society of Utah to assist them in getting out the surname index cards from each family and each individual in the Church. The information required is: The name of the family and where it originated; if work has been done for the family in any temple and where, or if no work has been done at all; where the work was commenced and the name of the heir in the family; the name and address of the person now having charge of the work and the date of getting this card out. You sisters can realize what a wonderful help this will be, in preventing duplication of temple work, in making each family acquainted with all work done by associated surname families, and in making our Genealogical Society a general clearing house for genealogical information. A secondary benefit will be realized in the increased interest which will be shown by every person who prepares this card. The Genealogical Society have printed for us 50,000 cards and will add another 150,000 as soon as we are ready for them. You can realize that if each individual has four lines upon which he may work, it will be necessary to have several hundred thousand of these to represent adult members of the Church. Where there are genealogical representatives they will be invited by the Utah Society to co-operate with us in this work. Always we want to work under the authority of the Priesthood, with their sanction and approval, and thus secure the best possible results. SAMPLE CARD. PREVIEW OF GUIDE WORK. 715 LITERATURE. LITERATURE FOR THE HOME. The chief aims of the course are these 1. To help mothers select better books for their homes. 2. To give to them some simple fundamental principles to guide them in their choice of stories and other reading for their children. 3. To cultivate a love of literature that will lead to right reading habits in the home. The home library generally is but a motley collection of books, purchased at random, and suitable mostly for grown-ups. What more beneficial study can be taken up than one that will help us spend our book money more wisely? A home without a good library is like a town without a school. This does not mean that the home must have many books, but it should have a choice selection. Mothers should learn how to choose the book companions of their children. With what stories are your boys and girls feeding their minds? What are you doing to guide their reading habits? Book companions are next to human companions in their influence over the minds of children. Mothers should study what stories to place before their children. So also should they learn what poems and other choice literature to bring into their homes for inspiration and culture. The reading habits of the home, likewise, need attention. Home reading generally consists of a hasty glance through the papers, a running over the magazines to see the pictures, and taste of the jokes or stories they contain, or it is a haphazard browsing among books. There is more mental dissipation than education in the ordinary home-reading. We need to restore the fireside story, to bring the family into closer intellectual companionship through the medium of good books. There should be more voicing of good literature in our homes. In the course that has been planned for the coming year, all of these practical problems will be considered. A series of studies, one for each month, will be taken up. The following suggestive outline will give some idea of the content of the course: Lesson I. Literature as Creative Art. The purpose here is to help parents to know what literature really is, to give them some fundamental principles by which to judge a literary selection. Lesson II. The Author at Work. The aim here is to show how the writer creates literature in — 716 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. — form of verse and prose producing these three chief types the sermon, the song, and the story. Lesson III. The Lyric, or Song. In this study, the mothers will learn what are the characteristics of a choice song, what is a lyric line; how to read lyrics to bring out their beauty; what lyrics to read. Lesson IV. The Children's Poets. This lesson will deal with the development of children's poetry from the days of Mother Goose until now. Poets of earlier times and those of recent days will be compared and enjoyed. Lesson V. Stories True and False. The purpose of this study will be to give parents the main principles by which a story may be judged, to show what marks the artistic story, what stories are really true and worth while. Lesson VI. Old Time Tales. A study of folk lore, the tales that have tumbled down the stream of time and have come to us in form of nursery tales, fairy stories, fables, parables, etc. These different types will be explained and illustrated. Lesson VII. Modern Tales for Children. The aim here is to give parents at least a good introduction to the best story-writers of recent days for children. Lists of choice stories will be offered for consideration. Lesson VIII. Our Country in Song and Story. The choice lyrics and tales that reflect the spirit of our country will be taken up here. A study to inspire true patriotism, we feel, could hardly be planned. HOME ECONOMICS. OUTLINE FOR COURSE IN HOME ECONOMICS, NUTRITION, CARE, AND CLOTHING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN. 1. Mother's Condition and Diet. 2. Correct Nursing Habits. Bottle Fed Babies. 3. Introduction of Solid Food and Diet During second 4. and third Years. 5. The Child at School Home Diet and School Lunches. 6. General Factors Related to Children's Diet. 7. Care and Clothing of Infants and School Children. 8. The Child's Recreation and Parent's Co-operation. 9. The formation of Correct Habits of Character. 10. The Child's Spiritual Life. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in January. THE GARDEN OF EDEN. (Read carefully, either before or after this article, chapters four, five, and six of the Book of Moses, in the Pearl of Great Price, last edition.) The Garden of Eden was the first home of Mother Eve and the cradle of the race. Of the place itself we do not know as much as we would like to know, but of what went on there and in the neighbourhood we know considerable, thanks to modern revelation. From the first century of our era until very recent times many attempts have been made to locate exactly the Garden of Eden, and doubtless these attempts would still be made but for the fact that few people nowadays, outside the "Mormon" Church, accept the biblical account as describing the real origin of the human family. "Two opinions deserving most attention," says Edersheim, "are those which place Eden either near the northern highlands of Armenia, or else far south in the neighborhood of the Persian Gulf." And the Century Dictionary says "it is generally agreed that the description in Genesis alludes to the Mesopotamian valley." These opinions, of course, are only conjectural, an attempt to find a place somewhere on our globe, usually in the eastern hemisphere, that corresponds with the description in the Book of Genesis. It is told there that "a river went out of Eden to water the garden and from thence it was parted and became four parts." Then the names of these are given. Two of these streams are generally believed to be the Euphrates and the Tigris, and one ingenious writer has identified the other two with two Babylonian canals! And so guesses pile up on one another, till the plain truth in the matter is as hard to find as a boy's hat just before school time. "Mormonism," however, in quarters where it is accepted, has upset the old theories by an explanation that is altogether unique and original. It is, that the Garden of Eden was on the American continent, not in Asia at all. And it bases this information on a revelation of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 718 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Adam-ondi-Ahman," says the revelation, given in May, 1838, "at a place called Spring Hill," in Daviess county, Missouri, "because it is the place where Adam shall come to visit his people, or the Ancient of Days shall sit, as spoken of by Daniel the prophet." Another revelation to the Prophet (Doctrine and Covenants, section 107:53) declares that "three years previous to the death of Adam, he called Seth, Enos, Cainan, Mahalaleel, Jared, Enoch, and Methuselah, who were all high priests, with the residue of his posterity who were righteous, into the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman and there bestowed upon them his last blessing." This place "is located immediately on the north side of Grand river, in Daviess county, Missouri, about twenty-five miles north of Far West. It is situated on an elevated spot of ground, which renders the place as healthful as any part of the United States, and overlooking the river and the country round about, it is certainly a beautiful location." From the phrase, "the land of Adam-ondi-Ahman," one would infer that the entire country where the Saints had settled in Missouri was either Eden or territory very close to Eden. Aside from these revelations that establish definitely the location of the Garden of Eden, why may not the first home of our racial parents have been in America? It is true that we have always looked upon the cradle of the race as having been in the eastern hemisphere. But that is no reason for believing that it was there. It is equally true that when the race became conscious, so far as we know it from profane records, it found itself in the eastern hemisphere. But Noah's flood, if the biblical explanation be accepted at all, would account for this fact. A few years ago I ran upon an article by a non-"Mormon" in which it was argued that, assuming that the ocean currents were the same then as they are now and counting back from Mount Ararat where the ark alighted, that vessel must have begun its drifting somewhere in the state of Missouri. As for the alleged similarity between any particular part of the eastern hemisphere and the description of Eden in Genesis, that is a mere accident, because, again if the Bible narrative be held to, the surface of the earth has undergone many and great alterations since Adam and Eve dwelt near the Garden, not only in the days of the flood but afterward as well for it would seem from the scriptural account that at the creation the land was in one place and the waters all in one body. We are told in Genesis that "in the days of Peleg the earth was divided." At all events, the Latter-day Saints believe they have sufficient grounds for thinking of America as the cradle of the race, of Missouri as "the place where Adam dwelt." As to the conditions under which life went on for Adam and Eve and their immediate posterity, we are left in utter darkness. GUIDE LESSONS. 719 Almost every question we may ask of that remote past comes echoing back to us as empty as when it left our lips. We are told specifically that after the pair had been expelled from the Garden "Adam began to till the earth and to have dominion over all the beasts of the field and to eat his bread by the sweat of his brow," and that "Eve, his wife, did labor with him." And we are informed that later on these two had children, who, when they grew up, divided "two and two in the land," that they tilled the ground and tended their flocks, and that they in turn begat sons and daughters. "Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground." But what kind of clothes did they wear? At first, we are told, while the original pair were in the Garden, "they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons." Doubtless after the expulsion they had other clothes — but what? We are told nothing about the nature, the texture, and the form of them. What kind of vegetables and fruits did they cultivate and eat? With what implements did they turn over the earth's crust? Again, what manner of social enjoyments did they have? When did they form themselves first into societies and what kind were these, barring that secret society of which the Pearl of Great Price tells us? All these and a thousand other questions crowd upon us as we think of our first common parents. But we have few satisfying answers. QUESTIONS. 1. Where is the Garden of Eden generally supposed to have been located? 2. On what ground is that statement of the location based? 3. Where do the Latter-day Saints place the Garden of Eden? 4. On what grounds do they base the belief? 5. What arguments drawn from reason may be urged for the probability of this latter claim? 6. What kind of shelter do you suppose our first parents had? 7. What kinds of food do you imagine they ate? 8. What kind of clothing do you believe they wore after the expulsion? 9. What social enjoyments? 10. What did they know, as compared with us today, do you think? 720 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in January. LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in January. GENEALOGY. SCANDINAVIAN SURNAMES FOUND IN ENGLAND. Few English people are aware of the vast influence of the early Danish conquerors on the nomenclature, or surname history of the English speaking people. Just after the Angles and Saxons had come over to conquer the Britons, the Jutes from Denmark also crossed the North Sea, and for several centuries they were in constant warfare with the mixed tribes of Picts, Scots, Angles, Britons, and Saxons, living in that small but crowded country. The first Teutonic or Saxon kingdom was located in Kent. The Saxons, being hard pressed by the Picts and Scots, invited two Danish brothers, Hengest and Horsa, to come to their assistance. They did so and brought a numerous following, defeating the Picts and Scots and conquering at the same time, the Britons themselves. In A. D. 449 they founded the tiny kingdom of East and West Kent. The following centuries were filled with the wars of the Saxons, Angles, Jutes or Danish people, Picts and Scots and the Welsh tribes. Let us review early English history with particular reference to the doings of the various Danish and Norse victories won in England by these intrepid warriors. The east coast of England was frequently invaded and ravaged by Danes or Norsemen. In 866 Ingvar and Ubba landed their forces in East Anglia and partially conquered that stronghold of the Angles. In 878 King Guthrum overran Essex. He was a powerful warrior and was a worthy foe for the maturing powers of the young King Alfred the Great, who was the noblest and greatest Saxon known to history. He reigned nominally, but the greater part of the government of England was left in Danish hands and consequently the English race became largely infused with Scandinavian blood. Alfred continued on his own victorious way until in the year 925, when he died, all Britain having acknowledged his rule and paid tribute to him. Fifty years after Alfred's death, in 994, Sweyn, King of Denmark, and Olaf, King of Norway, invaded England again and conquered most of the provinces, England paying tribute to Denmark because of the GUIDE LESSONS. 721 weak policy of the English king Ethelred, "the Unready." By 1013 Sweyn was acknowledged King of Denmark and of England, while Ethelred fled to Normandy and thus laid the foundation for the invasion of the Normans into England. Sweyn's son Canute became king of all England at the death of his father, in 1016. He also conquered Sweden and Norway which he affixed to his kingdom. Canute was a great king, filled with wisdom and vigor; but his sons quarreled at his death, in 1035, and thus opened the way for the incoming of William the Conqueror. All of these Danish and Norse conquerors brought with them into England hosts of followers, and their impress upon the English language and English names is, of course, very great. Among the Norsemen, the royal family was that of the Ynglings, deriving from a mythical ancestor, Ingvi. The Saxon and Angle kings all traced back to heroic ancestors, and the Saxon Chronicle is careful to record the pedigrees. The Danish royal family was that of Skjoldungs, descended from an ancestor Skjold. But the royal Danish race of this stock expired in the male line with the extinction of the family of Canute the Great, and the crown passed to the son of an Earl Ulf whom Canute had murdered, and who had married his sister. Thenceforth the Danish royal race was entitled the Ulfungs, or children of Ulf. Ung meaning children or young ones. But among the Northmen there were as well the Bjornings, sons of the Bear; Hundings, sons of a dog; Arnungs, issue of an eagle; Nifflungs, children of the mist. But no member bore the name Bjorning, Skjoldung, Hunding, Arnung, etc., as a surname only the family generally was so designated. It was a tribal name, but it did not adhere as yet to the personal name. A termination expressive of sonship or descent, which was in use among the Anglo-Saxon and Scandinavians, was ing, which means "belonging to." In the pedigree of the West Saxon Kings it is used systematically. Edgar is Edmunding, Edmund is Edwarding, Edward is Alfreding. Alfred is Alfwolding, and so on. But ing was also broadly applied, much as O' in Irish and "the son of" in Scripture, to signify descent from an ancestor more remote than an immediate parent. Moreover, we cannot assure ourselves that all names that end in ing are patronymics, for the surname termination is employed in a variety of ways. In Northumbria and East Anglia the Danes had begun to settle from the seventh or beginning of the eighth century. They were of the same ancestry as the Teutons, and spoke pretty much the same tongue. The Angles came from the modern Schleswig, and the home of the Danes was the island of Zealand, with the hall of the King and the temple of the national god at Leidre. A continual stream of Danes passed into the North of England. 722 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The Kings of Leidre demanded, and indeed exacted, scatt, or tribute, from the Northumbrians. At length, in 878, by the peace of Wedmore, the whole of the country north of the Watlingstreet — the great Roman road that ran straight as an arrow from London to Chester — was ceded to the Danes. In the Saga of Egill Skallagrimson we are told that the time when he was at Northumbria — i. e., in the tenth century — the inhabitants were nearly all Scandinavians on the father's or mother's side, and a very great many on both sides. The place-names in Yorkshire are largely Scandinavian. "By" in Danish was a farm or a town. "Thorp" or "torp" in Danish means a little farm, a field. "Kirk" was the church. Balderby, Thukleby, Grimsthorpe, Ormskirk, Greeta (Griot-a), the stony river, and a thousand others, point to the continuous occupation by the Danes and Northmen. A hundred and sixty-seven places with names ending in "by" have been reckoned in Yorkshire. In the same county are ninety-four ending in "thorpe;" twenty end in "with" i. e., wood; there are numerous "royds," i. e., clearing in the woods. Lincolnshire was also peopled with Danes. The conquest of the whole of England by Knud, or Canute the Great, tended still further to introduce Scandinavian names (personal) into the land, but the grip on it was not sufficiently extended to affect place-names seriously beyond Northumbria and East Anglia. The islands, however, about the coast — haunts of the Vikings — mostly received and retained the names given to them by these Scandinavian pirates, as Lundy (Puffin Isle), Ramsey, Mersea, Anglesey, Brithtlingsea (Brithelm's-ey), once all but an island. Iceland was colonized from Norway between the years 872 and 890 by "bonders," or peasants, of ancient pedigree and large possessions, who had hitherto held their land as allodial ground, and King Harald Haarfager (Fairhair) insisted on converting all freeholds into tenures from the crown or feof. Rather than endure this, these men took their movable goods with them, their wives, children, and serfs, and migrated to Iceland, which was then uncolonized, except by a small band of Irish culdees. Happily, we have preserved a Landnamabok, or record of the settlement of the Iceland, with the names and genealogies of all the emigrants, and, what concerns us now, the names they gave to every place where they planted themselves. As the same procedure took place in England when Jutes, Angles, Saxons, Danes, and Northmen came into England and settled there, this Landnamabok is to us very instructive, and helps us to elucidate the place-names over a large portion of England, and through the place-names the surnames derived from these places" (pp. 136-7). We have, in our Utah Genealogical Library, one of the Icelandic pedigrees going back in a direct line to this period. GUIDE LESSONS. 723 "Scandinavian surnames based upon personal designations are more numerous in England, but these come nearly all, if not all, from ancient Northumbria, which included Yorkshire. There the descendants of the old Danish and Norse settlers clung to their ancient nomenclature later than elsewhere — indeed, till the fashion of adopting surnames prevailed. We have such names still in use in England and America. Bard has become Barth, unless it be a contraction, as is probable, of Bartholomew; Jokull yields Jekil, Halfdan is now Haldane, Sweyn is Swayne, Olafr yields Oliver — but this comes to us also through Normandy. Ragnar is now Rayner, and this, again, comes in a roundabout fashion through the reign of the Conqueror. Havardo is Howard, Hjorvaro is Harvey, Steinarr we recognize in Stoner, Ketill is Kettle, Grimm is Grymes, Hamund is Hammond, Frioestan is Featherstone, Thorfin is Turpin, Hide is Hyde. But it is in Yorkshire, East Anglia, Durham, and Northumberland, that these are mainly found. Elsewhere, if we trace them, it will usually be found that the families bearing these names have at some time come into other parts of England from the ancient Northumbria or from Lincoln. We have, indeed, elsewhere names that came originally from Norway, but they have somewhat altered their form and transmission through Normandy. These latter names are numerous, for it was with the Conqueror that family nomenclature may be said to have had its beginning in England." (page 13-14.) This interesting sidelight is given by Baring-Gould "Among the primitive Teutonic peoples a man's personal name is regarded as of the highest importance; it not merely belongs to him, but it is to some extent inseparable from him. He who gets hold of a man's secret name acquires a powerful but undefined control over the man himself. So strongly is this felt that the name is kept concealed from enemies; it is never uttered. He is spoken of by a nickname; he is alluded to in an oblique manner. His true name is kept from all but his nearest kin. Just as a savage is afraid of having his portrait taken, lest by this means the artist should obtain control over him, so does he shrink from allowing any person to get hold of his real or secret name." (Page 48.) He who runs may read! Several hundred years before William the Conqueror's time there was written a book called "The Book of Life," or Liber Vitae which is Latin for book of life. It was a catalogue of the people who had donated to the church of Durham, England, and was brought on down to the Reformation in Cromwell's time. Its name was given because the hope was expressed on the title page that the names recorded there would find a place in the Book of Life in which are recorded "those who shall be entitled to eternal salvation." 724 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. To the Latter-day Saints this sentence is peculiarly significant. The manuscript itself possesses peculiar interest, most of the writing being done in alternate lines of gold and silver in handwriting of peculiar elegance. This probably was done in the 9th century. At first the names of benefactors were written up and down on the pages, but as the centuries rolled on, and space became more and more valuable, names were filled in to all the blank spaces and only by carefully distinguishing the various handwritings can one tell to what period the various names belong. Recently students have tried to discriminate between the Anglo-Saxon, Danish and Norwegian names as found in this Book of Life. QUESTIONS. 1. Who were the Teutons? 2. What can you say of the Danish conquerors of England? 3. What effect did their long residence in England have on English surnames? 4. What is the Danish meaning of "by"? Of "thorp" or "torp"? Of "ing"? Of "with"? Of "royd"? 5. When and how was Iceland settled? 6. What was the Teutonic tradition about secret names? 7. What can you say of the Book of Life? LITERATURE FOR THE HOME. LESSON I. LITERATURE AS CREATIVE ART. Among the ancient tales from the Northland, there is a fanciful story which will help us to understand, more clearly, what literature is. It is said, in this strange old tale, that the gods once had a victory over the frost giants, and to commemorate their triumph, they decided to create a man. Each of the gods was to express his gratitude by endowing this newly-created being with some wondrous gift. When the man was formed, one god gave him a clear mind, another gave him a kindly heart, full of love and sympathy for all of God's creatures; still another added skill in music to his nature; and yet another gave him power over language. When he walked forth among the mortals, it was observed that he spoke as never man had spoken before. Through his eloquent words, one could hear the babble of the brooks, the songs of the birds, the sighing of the winds, the roar of the wild ocean, the merry voices of children at play, the wooing words of the lover — all of the music of man and nature came at the call of his wonderful voice; and he became the first poet. This old tale is not true, of course; but it does suggest a great truth. The work, or art of the poet, is to reflect beautiful pictures of life, in beautiful words. When the artist author speaks, one can hear and see the birds, the brooks, the children and other voices and scenes in nature. To make this point clearer, read the following lines aloud, and listen. With what musical cadences do these pictures fall upon the ear and mind? "I bubble, babble as I flow To join the brimming river." — Tennyson. "The day is dark and cold and dreary It rains and the wind is never weary." — Longfellow. "The little bird sits at his door in the sun Atilt like a blossom among the leaves." — Lowell. "The husky, rusty rustle of the tassels of the corn, And the raspin' of their tangled leaves As golden as the morn." — Riley. "From the first bare clod in the raw, cold spring, To the last bare clod when the fall winds sting, The farm-boy hears his brave song ring, And life for the time is a pleasant thing." — "The Meadow Lark." Hamlin Garland. "We'll roam the verdant hills, And by the sparkling rills Pluck the wild flowers; The fragrance on the air, The landscape bright and fair, And sunshine everywhere, Make pleasant hours." — Emmeline B. Wells "Our Mountain Home so Dear." "Oh, ye mountains high, where the clear, blue sky Arches over the vales of the free, Where the clear streamlets flow, and the pure breezes blow, How I long to your bosom to flee." — Chas. W. Penrose. "And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that now it was full. And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow; and they awake him, and say unto him, 'Master carest thou not that we perish?' And he arose and rebuked the wind, and said unto the wind, 'Peace, 726 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. be still.' And the wind ceased, and there was great calm." — St. Mark. Literature, as already suggested, is the art of reflecting life in words. Just as the painter uses color, the sculptor, stone or bronze, the musician, "a concord of sweet sounds," to portray life as they see and feel it, so the author uses language to create literary forms to reflect the thoughts, the emotions, the pictures that life brings to him. In common with all other artists, it is the writer's mission to open our "inward eyes" to the beauties of the world in which we live, to help us to love the good, the true, the beautiful. To that end the poet or novelist creates characters which represent ideals, and tactfully he guides our sympathies, as we watch these characters working out their life problems, till we, too, learn to love them. Thus, Longfellow leads us with Evangeline through all her faithful wanderings, in search of her lover; or George Eliot takes our minds with Silas Marner through his tragic disappointment which drives him away from life and makes of him a miser and then we see him led back by the hand of a little child into human sympathy and love. Or in "Little Women", Louisa Alcott pictures for us the homely joys and sorrows of a good family of the common folk; again in Enoch Arden, Tennyson portrays the noble self-sacrifice of a man who would die in loneliness rather than break in and destroy the peace of his loved ones; in Julius Caesar, Shakespeare gives us a mighty drama portraying political passion and intrigue. In the Bible story, or history of Joseph, we get a wonderful story, reflecting the life of the Patriarch Jacob on the plains of Palestine, the sumptuous courts of Pharaoh, and the hand-dealings of God with his favorite son. No more artistic story than this of Joseph and his brethren is to be found
in literature. It is both true and uplifting. The master writers try always to produce such stories. They would have their tales both true to truth and true to life. This does not mean that the literary story must be true to fact. Most frequently it is not. The historian, the scientist, and others, deal with facts; the author uses his creative imagination to produce his stories, songs and sentiments that reflect life truly, vividly, that uplift and inspire us. He may base his work on facts, as did Scott when he wrote Ivanhoe and other historical novels; but he may also weave his literature out of the materials of fancy, so long as he makes it consistent, true to the life he attempts to portray. He may even create supernatural beings, if he chooses; but we still demand of him that these beings be true to the life they represent. The fairy godmother in Cinderella is true to fairy life, as we imagine it to be. GUIDE LESSONS. 727 In his Rip Van Winkle, Irving lets his hero, Rip, sleep for twenty years; but though we permit this, we still demand that Rip awake as if he had slept a score of years away, and we follow the poor, bewildered man back to his home to find the changes wrought there in his family, and his friends. It all seems so natural that we do not stop to question the consistency of the fancy flight Irving has given us. The story is artistically true. Shakespeare brings ghosts into his plays very frequently. What do they represent? Simply the workings of the passion-tossed or troubled mind. When Brutus, after his quarrel with Cassius, sits at night in his tent, buried in thought, what is more natural than that his worried mind should bring up the ghost of Caesar, whom he and others have slain? It is said of Dickens that when he was creating his "Old Curiosity Shop" and running it as a serial story in a magazine, some of the readers, before they had seen the end of the story, guessed that Little Nell, the heroine, was going to die. And these people actually wrote to Dickens begging him to let Little Nell live. The great writer replied that he could not do it, and be true to life, so he refused to yield to the sympathies of his audience. The master artist will not violate truth to gain money or popularity. He prefers, as Kipling puts it "To paint the thing as he sees it For the God of things as they are." It is the cheap, the irresponsible author that bends his story to serve commercial ends, distorting truth, painting highly-colored pictures full of sensationalism to please the perverted taste of the populace. Too many such writers are filling our magazines and scattering their books by the thousands through the country today, or giving them in more vivid form through the movies, and from the stage. As Josh Billings humorously puts it: "About half the lies they tell ain't true." The chief concern for our mothers is to guard their children's minds from unwholesome mental food, studying how to judge the true and wholesome story. Happily there are many good stories which can be substituted for false and unwholesome ones. We commend this as a first guiding principle: Choose literature that is artistically true to life and wholesome. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. Let each member give a line or two from some choice selection in verse or prose to show how the author reflects the music of nature or pictures of life through his words. 728 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Note: These quotations may be found in our best hymns or the Bible, or in any reader or book of choice poems. 2. How is the poet like the painter? In what do these artists differ in their work? 3. What is meant by this: The author need not be true to fact, but he should be true to life? 4. What created character in some story have you learned to admire? Why? 5. What created scene or description has impressed you? 6. Show how the story of Joseph measures up to the best in literature. 7. Name some other story, not in the Bible that you feel is artistically true and wholesome. 8. What practical steps can mothers take to cultivate a love for the best literature in their homes? LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in January. MOTHER'S CONDITION AND DIET. Naturally, the diet of the mother, together with her bodily condition, makes for health, or lack of it, in the food which she supplies to her nursing babe. If it is important that the various food elements supplied to the mother shall be correctly proportioned, in order to keep her in health, it is of equal importance for the well-being of the little one who is to be nourished by her. Tradition has given a series of false notions, all of them, however, having some foundation in fact. For instance, mothers are, sometimes, told that they must eat enough for two, and that they must not eat fruit while nursing a child, nor any kind of meat. As a matter of fact, the old tradition that drinking quantities of milk, and swilling quarts of tea, would supply the mother with milk, tends to create a bilious condition in the mother, and if she is of that tendency, will fatten her at the expense of her child. A good, plain, wholesome diet for the mother, with plenty of beefsteak or a mutton chop, fruit, vegetables, plentiful and frequent water drinking, and, perhaps, a good bowl of thin gruel, in the evening before going to bed, are all that the mother needs to keep up her own health, and to give good milk for her child. The effect of tea, coffee, and beer upon the mother's milk may not be so injurious as to quantity, but the stimulating properties of these drinks creates an inflamed condition in the mother which is too often communicated to the child, thus producing an overwrought, nervous condition. Malted milk, and milk, are as GUIDE LESSONS. 729 a rule, too rich, unless somewhat diluted, especially if drunk with the meals. Soup, which is highly flavored with onions or cabbage, produces gas, and may give the child colic. The effect on the mother's appetite of spices and stimulants, on the health and development of the child, is highly injurious. Rich food, highly seasoned, is also deleterious in every way to both mother and child. Drugs should be avoided, and yet the mother should be careful to keep her bowels regular, and to see that all of the processes of life go on regularly without interruption. The intestinal decomposition which occurs where constipation is allowed, reacts upon the child and often produces colic. Nursing Diet for Mother. Taking it for granted that a child is being nursed, under whatever condition of life for the mother, the following points are to be remembered: The mother's diet should not include too much meat and solid food; an abundant light diet should be given at first, such as milk gruels, soups, vegetables, bread and butter, and, after the first week, a small amount of meat once a day; increase diet as the exercise increases, using plain but nutritious foods, taking regular meals, and sometimes using, between mealtimes, hot milk. Use no stimulants. Malt extracts are useful, and milk or gruel taken at night is to be advocated. Idiosyncrasies are to be looked for, and if certain articles disagree with certain women, and, consequently, with their children, they should be omitted; but they need not be forbidden to all women on that account. Physicians say that an average woman should use a plain mixed diet, with a moderate excess of fluids and proteids over what she is normally accustomed to. The habits of the nursing mother should be founded on regularity and system. Not only in the management of her household duties is this required, but if the child is nursed at regular intervals, and this rule is persisted in, the results are of the utmost benefit to both mother and child. Hard work is not bad for a nursing mother; provided, it does not appeal to her as drudgery. If she is in love with her work, or can persuade herself to fall in love with it, and if her bodily habits are regular and natural, she is safe to go about her home without any restrictions, as to time or strength, because of nursing her child. There are some suggestions, however, that should claim the attention of the nursing mother: Her vitality, if deflected along other channels than her natural domestic duties, that is, if she has mental labors to perform which would direct the vitality into other channels than those which lead to the breast secretions, the mother will find her milk speedily failing, as well as deteriorating in quality. The mother should avoid over-heating her blood. You will 730 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. notice that cows are carefully guarded, and no one would permit a valuable cow to be hurried or worried, lest the over-heating process should entirely dry up the milk, or otherwise injure the cow and calf. How much more careful we should be of our human mothers. Anger, fear, worry, jealousy, hatred, and malice, will produce far more evil effects upon the breast secretions than merely over-heating the blood through hurrying or running, or working in over-heated rooms. The effect of evil emotions is to generate acid poisons which are so startling in their results that physicians stand aghast at the records of medical practitioners. The nursing child has been known to be smitten instantly with both nervous and other illnesses, on nursing an angry mother, or one filled with jealousy and hatred. A specific illustration of this was found in the "beef-critter" which was killed on the Sandwich Islands while in bellowing anger; and the whole "Mormon" colony was smitten with sickness upon eating the meat cut therefrom, while two small boys died from the effects. Pleasant environment, with a restful state of mind, interest in the work and play of the day, gives the best foundation for healthy milk and a happy baby. Plenty of fresh air and sunshine should be furnished the nursing mother. It would be just as great a piece of folly to keep a cow shut up in a dark stable, month in and month out, and expect the cow to furnish nourishing, healthy milk, as to keep a mother chained to her kitchen and expect her to supply her babe with proper nourishment. A peace of mind, harmony with one's surroundings, and a faith in Providence, give the best foundation of all for healthy mothers and happy babies. QUESTIONS. 1. What can you say about the diet of the nursing mother? 2. What effect has stimulants upon her? 3. What would you call a "plain, wholesome diet"? 4. What foods are injurious to the mother? 5. What foods eaten by the mother may produce colic in the babe? 6. What can you say of tea, coffee and beer, as drinks for the mother? 7. How best can a mother keep her bowels regular? 8. Why is system and order necessary for the mother? 9. What can you say about hard work for the nursing mother? 10. Name some injurious habits. 11. What about the injurious effects of grief, worry, anger and hate? 12. Describe the ideal conditions for mother and child. Charity Never Faileth The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints VOLUME III "May the Relief Society Magazine enter upon its noble mission so firmly surrounded by the bulwarks of worthy and capable endeavor and enduring truth that its career may be successful and glorious." Joseph F. Smith. Published by the General Board of the Relief Society Room 29 "Bishop's" Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Editor Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Assistant Manager 1916 THE GENERAL BOARD. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Miss Edna May Davis Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director INDEX. GUIDE DEPARTMENT. Page Page Literature Theology—Women of the Literature as Creative Art. . . 724 Bible Home Economics Elizabeth and Anna 586 Co-operations 533 Esther 468 Home Economics Movement Judith 526 and Its Meaning 658 Leah and Rachel 169 Home Making as a Profession 116 Mary 650 Mother's Condition and Diet 728 Miriam and Deborah 227 Household Wastes 476 Rebecca 111 The Organization of Housework 292 Ruth 286 The Servant Problem 592 Sarah and Hagar 49 The Latter-day Saint Home. 55 The Garden of Eden 717 The Business Side of Housekeeping 175 Genealogy The Home Budget 233 Anglo-Saxon Surnames..... 652 Summer Health Lessons Conclusion 288 Sanitation 356 Family Association 113 Prevention of Disease 412 Introduction 52 Linking the Past to the Present 230 EDITORIALS. Scandinavian Surnames Found in England 720 A New Year Resolve 47 Scotch and Irish Surnames.. 588 Climbing 354 Surnames 471 Efficiency 109 Temple Excursions 171 Out of Death Life is Born 584 Tribal Surnames. Sire Names 528 Paying the Price 283 Peace on Earth 710 Art and Architecture Self-pity 524 Indian Summer Landscape, Testimony of the Truth of the Sunset and Twilight 473 Gospel 166 November Landscape 590 The Childless Ones 225 October Days 531 The Church Militant 684 "On Earth Peace, Good Will Will Conquering 465 to Men" 655 Who Can Help Me? 409 Out-of-door Study 114 Spring Landscape Study 231 POETRY Summer Landscape 290 Absence 481 The Interdependence of Ancestors 239 Landscape 173 At Evening 539 Winter Landscape and SunA Prayer 81 shine 54 A Prayer for Perfectness of American Architecture 291 Life 338 Classic Period, Classic ReA Heroine 343 vivals, the Victorian Gothic 233 A Sonnet 196 Early Republican Period, and A Sure Defense 546 the Revivals 475 A Voice Calling 300 Period of the Renaissance, 55 A War Time Reminder 647 Panama-Pacific International Byron's Unpublished Prayer.. 1 Exposition 657 Chance and Change 355 The Interdependence of IV RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Architecture 173 Page Page War Period and Modern Charity 512 Movement 532 Cobwebs 18 Constant Mary 424 Ethics 348 Does It Pay? 351 Fear in a Little Child 619 Female Relief Society of NauFilet Crochet Yoke 505 voo 121 Gates, Emma Lucy's Wedding For Right 601 Cake 441 General Conference of the ReHappy as a King 215 lief Society 663 Introspection 61 Give Glory to God 12 My Epitaph 181 Good-by, California Congress, My Friend 148 Good-by 274 Not Even Fate 141 Graduation Exercises of the Old Folks Greetings 301 Class of Obstetrics and NursRevelry 407 ing 379 Similitude 660 Granite Stake Relief Society Spring 209 Cantata 320 Temple Hymn 79 Health Note —The Common The Flowers' Resurrection.... 277 Wash Rag 301 The Quest 165 Home Science Department. . . . The Peasant Mother 262 44, 85, 157, The Cross 324 213, 263, 344, 396, 454, 521, 559, 632 The Seeing Heart 337 How Betty Helped 602, 695 The Truest Calendar 377 Literature for the Home... 705, 714 To My Mother 361 Ma's New Year's Resolution.. 7 The Toilers 467 Mental Hygiene for the WomThe Mother's Prayer 506 an Past Fifty 30 The Future Life 541 Mother's Day 374 Thou Shalt Be a Blessing 121 Mothers in Israel The Two-faced Clock 421 Lund, Sarah A. Peterson. . . . 243 To Emma 509 Nibley, Jean Wilson 303 When First We Met 378 Pratt, Mary Ann Stearns 423 Written for a Bereft Sister 308 Smith, Lucy Mack 5 Within the Locket 6 Smith, Mary Fielding 133 Zion Prospers, All Is Well 190 Snow, Eliza R 181 Wells, Emmeline B 63 MISCELLANEOUS PROSE Winters, Mary Ann Stearns (Autobiography of) 423 Aberdeen, Lord and Lady.... 13 Winters, Mary Ann Stearns 574 A Call to Arms 603 Winters, Mary Ann Stearns 641 A Child's Record 610 Mother Takes Advice 436 An Expression of Approval... 181 My Testimony Concerning A Priceless Golden Wedding.. 369 Temple Work 82 A Testimony 80 Nearest and Dearest 689 A War Time Reminder. 645 Notes from Remarks of Dr. A Wondrous Woman's Book. 210 Margaret C. Roberts, Relief Being "Gran" 494 Society Conference, May, 1916 417 Betty Morgan's Dilemma 260 Our Delegates in Washington 168 Beyond the Portals 325 Perfect Guidance of Children 702 Birth Control 363, 433 Plain Gossip 258, 335, 402 Christmas Menus 708 Prince of Ur 19, 91, Crochet Centerpiece 382 149, 197, 265. 399, 386, 444, 497, 569 Crochet Nut Basket 457 Preview of Guide Work for Crochet Yoke 275 1916-17 712 Current Topics. 41, 101, 162, 219, 280 Proper Guidance for Children 352, 361. 399, 463, 518, 582, 638, 705 510 442, Daughters of Zion 543 Query Box. . . 350 104, 164, 217, 278, Echo of the Genealogical Conference 71 Reception at the McCune Home 677 INDEX. Page Page Relief Society School of ObBanquet Room 688 stetrics and Nursing 155 Bath-room of Carrara marble 687 Sarah Ann's Family 206 Curio Room 686 Schemes and Schedules 490 Dining-room 683 Snowflake Stake History 38 Drawing-room 662 The April Conference 309 Exterior View 676 The Bible 507 Main Hall 679 The Bride's Mother 33 Reception Room 685 The Cliff Dwellers 622 Statues in Drawing-room... 677 The Conference Folks 191 Statue of Baby in DrawingThe Spirit of the Gift 699 room 684 Their Thanksgiving 612 Vestibule 678 When Dreams Come True. . . . 704 Mrs. McCune's Bed-chamber 682 McFaul, Mr. C. L 71 ILLUSTRATIONS. Main Quadrangle of Cornell University 568 Aalborg, Where Prest. Lund Members of the Granite Stake was Born 244 Relief Society Cantata 321 Aalborg Canal 245 New Portrait of Eliza R. Snow 182 Aberdeen, The Marquis of.... 13 Nibley, Bishop Chas. W 302 Aberdeen, The Marchioness Nibley, Mrs. Jean Wilson304 Ishbel and Temair 14 Old Stearns Home 575 A Little Child Shall Lead Them 362 Old Red School House, Near A Sonnet 196 Stearns Home 578 Balcony House 628 Peterson, Sarah A 246 Being "Gran" 494, 495, 496 Pratt, Mrs. Mary Ann Frost Bethel, Maine View of Main Stearns 422 Street 580 Pratt, Mrs. Mary Ann Stearns Bridge Across Stream in Watand Daughter, Mrs. Winters 487 kin's Glen, N. Y 547 Smith, President Joseph F 138 Central Buildings of AgriculSmith, Prest. Joseph F., Wives tural College, N. Y 559 and Descendants 143 Cliff Palace 624, 625, 626 Smith, Mrs. Mary Fielding. 122 Crochet Centerpiece. . .-384 Smith, Mrs. Lucy Mack, MothCrochet Nut Basket 458 er of Prophet Joseph Smith 2 Crocheted Yoke 275 Smith, Joseph F. and Prest. Denver Relief Society 558 Wife and Descendants 372 Detail of Balcony House 629 Smith, Mrs. Ida Bowman 542 Evansville Branch Relief SociSnow, Eliza R. and Her Close ety Northern States MisFriends 188 sion 404 Spruce Tree House with Kiva Filet Crocheted Yoke 504 in Center 623 Green, Lucy May Hilton 323 Sun Temple with Kivas 631 Harris, Mr. and Mrs. Wm. J., Tableau of Cottonwood Stake and Children 147 Workers 634 Harris, Mrs. Martha A. Smith The Old Nibley Home in Scotand Three Oldest Boys 141 land 305 Home Economics Building, A. War as It Was 602 C, Logan 86 Watch, the Prophet Joseph's.. 185 Independence Relief Society 556 Wells, Prest. Emmeline B. and Kirtland Temple 482 Her Five Daughters 62 Logan Square Relief Society.. 552 Wells, Emmeline B., and DeLund, Sarah A. Peterson 254 scendants 64 Lund, President Anthon H.... 242 McCune Residence: When First We Met 378 A Guest Chamber 680 White, Ida Home 325 Ball-room 681 Winters, Mary Ann Stearns.. 484 VI RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. MUSIC DEPARTMENT. Page Hyde, Janette A 44, 55, 85, Page 157, 213, 263, 244, 396, 521, 559, 633 Charms of Springtime 418 Jenkins, Laura Moench 325 Jordan Stake Relief Society... 504 Lambourne, Alfred Music in the Relief Society. 257 6, 196, 241, 378, 494 My Friend 540 Knight, Lillian G 348 Lauritzen, Annie G 338 INDEX TO AUTHORS. McClendon, Edith 81 McConahay, Mrs. W. A 647 Anderson, James H Lyman, Amy Brown 41, 101, 162, 209, 36, 106, 159, 222, 270, 280, 352, 399, 463, 518, 582, 639, 699 309, 349, 404, 460, 513, 547, 635, 663 Anderson, Nephi 374 McKay, David 366 Baggarley, Maud Palmer, Annie D. S 18, 601 209, 337, 407, 465 610 Parrish, Diana 436 Beecraft, Nellie 61 Peay, Ida Stewart....216, 421, 612 Bell, Ruth Moench.72, 260, 490, 689 Richards, Geo. F 365 Bryant, Wm. Cullen 541 Richards, L. Lula Greene Burnham, Lucy 343, 481 148, 361, 540, 546, 661 Carroll, Elsie C..7, 191, 206, 606, 695 Rorer, Madam 44, 87 Clawson, Rudger 364 Sears, Isabel Whitney Coray, Edna 603 275, 382, 457, 505 Dunford, Hazel Love Smith, David A 484 104, 164, 217, 278, 350 Smith, Hyrum M 433 Gates, Susa Young.. 3, 63, 133, 183, Smith, Ida Bowman 543 243, 303, 423, 483, 574, 623, 642, 676 Smith, Joseph F., Jr 367 Green, Lucy May Smith, Lulu J 38 79, 256, 320, 507, 540 Snow, Eliza R 181 Grundy, Mrs 258, 335, 402 Snow, Lucy Wright. . .442, 510, 619 Harper, Ida Husted 210 Stephens, Evan 418 Homespun 19, 91, 149, Washburn, Hazel S 277, 377 197, 265, 339, 386, 444, 497, 569, 573 Wells, Emmeline B 539 Home, Alice Merrill 155 Whitney, O. F 367 Howe, Nabby 52 Wilson, Lerona A 82 Theological Readings. In connection with our Theological Lessons, we offer here a suggested reading course, just a chapter a day. If our sisters will follow this — which is especially adapted to our lessons — the results will surprise us all. DAILY SCRIPTURE READING COURSE. "All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness." JANUARY. 1 Bible, Psalm 103. 14 Bible, Romans, 5 chapter. 2 Bible, Genesis, chapter 1. 15 Bible, Romans, 6 chapter. 3 Bible, Genesis, chapter 2. 16 Bible, Romans, 7 chapter. 4 Bible, Genesis, chapter 3. 17 Bible, Romans, 8 chapter. 5 Bible, Genesis, chapter 4. 18 Doctrine and Covenants, Section 29. 6 Pearl of Great Price, Moses, 19 Bible, Psalm, chapter 1. chapter 2. 20 Bible, Psalm, chapter 2. 7 Pearl of Great Price, Moses, 21 Bible, Psalm, chapter 3. chapter 3. 22 Bible, Psalm, chapter 4. 8 Pearl of Great Price, Moses, 23 Bible, Psalm, chapter 5. chapter 4. 24 Bible, Psalm, chapter 6. 9 Pearl of Great Price, Moses, 25 Bible, Psalm, chapter 7. chapter 5. 26 Bible, Psalm, chapter 8. 10 Book of Mormon, 2 Nephi, 2 27 Bible, Psalm, chapter 9. chapter 14 to 30 verse. 28 Bible, Psalm, chapter 10. 11 Book of Mormon, Alma 12 29 Bible, Psalm, chapter 11. chapter, 20 to 37 verse. 30 Bible, Proverbs, chapter 31. 12 Book of Mormon, Alma 42 31 Bible, Ecclesiastes, chapter 12. chapter. 13 Book of Mormon, 9 chapter. HAVE YOU SUBSCRIBED FOR THE Relief Society Magazine IF NOT, DO IT NOW If you don't get your name in early you may fail to receive the first numbers, as happened last year when our supply was exhausted. Be prompt, and your reward is sure. THE MAGAZINE will contain: MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. POEMS AND SHORT STORIES by Lula Greene Richards, Hazel Washburn, Lucy Burnham, Annie D. Palmer, Maud Baggarley, Lucy Wright Snow, Lucy May Greene, Ruth Moench Bell, Elsie C. Carroll, Ida S. Peay, Diana Parrish, Laura M. Jenkins, Edna Coray, and others. There will be the usual valuable departments, and the Guide Lessons will be better and more useful than ever before. SUBSCRIBE OFTEN AND EARLY EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Mapazine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Genealogical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah "Utah's Most Popular Music House" ON FREE TRIAL IN YOUR OWN HOME This fine COLUMBIA GRAFONOLA, brand-new, latest model, with 20 fine selections, delivered to your home on five-days' FREE TRIAL. No C. O. D. No Money Down. English and American MAIL COUPON TODAY ARCHITECTURE Daynes-Beebe Music Co., Salt Lake. By GEO. M. ALLEN Please send me particulars of your FREE TRIAL OFFER mentioned in is in Mrs. Home's Art Book, the Relief Society Magazine. DEVOTEES AND THEIR SHRINES. Send to this office or Name. to Mrs. Alice Merrill Home, 4 Address. Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH' PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID Z. C. M. I. School Shoes For Boys Are made for service they will keep the boys' feet warm and dry. Have More Locally # Little Cost Oregon Short Line Z. C. M. I. ALLOVERS HALF FARE SUNDAYS SLIGHTLY MORE SATURDAYS & MONDAYS. are the ideal play garment for boys and girls. Cheap, serviceable. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters —and sons—to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. Bead Neck Chains 75c to $300. Come in and look at them. If you live out of town write about them. We show them in Imitation Pearls, Real Pearl, Jet, Amber, Coral and Gold. Bead Chains are always appropriate, always in good taste. McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City EXCURSIONS TO CALIFORNIA November 25th and 28th, 1916 Return Limit January 31st, 1917 SPECIAL RATES SAN FRANCISCO, LOS ANGELES AND RETURN Visit San Francisco, Santa Cruz, Big Trees, Del Monte Monterey, Santa Barbara and Los Angeles this Fall IT IS SUMMER IN WINTER IN CALIFORNIA For Information Call On F. E. SCOTT District Passenger Agent, Phone Was. 6900 City Ticket Office, 203 Walker Bank Bldg. SOUTHERN PACIFIC

